ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] First of all, I wanted to congratulate the new leadership of the PSD Parliamentary Group yesterday, especially its President, Adam Silva, to whom I congratulate. Let us hope that fruitful work together can continue. Secondly, Mrs. Sofia Araújo will realize an opinion we have to vote on. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members has delivered the following opinion: « The resumes of Deputies Jamila Bárbara Madeira and Madeira, José Apolinário Nunes Portada and Susana de Fatima Carvalho Amador meet the legal requirements, ending Célia Maria Marques da Rosa Paz, Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira and Paulo Jorge Duarte Marques, from September 18, 2020, including the suspension of Marina Sola Gonçalves meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Silvia Manuela Carneiro Amorim Torres, from September 18, 2020, inclusive. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina RodrigueseJoacine Katar Moreira.]] Before we enter our agenda, I note that, as has been customary, checks are already under way for quorum purposes. All Members and all Members. Members can and should register quickly. We begin with the general discussion of the Bill No 55 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the prevention and investigation of railway accidents by partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 798. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Jorge Delgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. The proposed law that we present today seeks to request the Assembly of the Republic permission for the Government to legislate on the prevention and investigation of railway accidents, particularly as regards the possibility that, in the exercise of research functions and within its competence, those responsible for the technical investigations of the GPIAAF (Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents) will access video surveillance images relevant to the investigation. In fact, the Portuguese State has to transpose Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 798 on rail safety, which is to introduce amendments to the regulatory framework on rail accident safety investigation and which will be materialised by amending Decree-Law No 394 / 2007. These changes include clarification of the definition of serious accident and the extension of the definition of incident; extension of the scope of action of the GPIAAF to other mechanical systems circulating on roads, such as light subways, electrics, some funiculars; the possibility of participation of researchers from homologous bodies in other States, in certain circumstances. Finally, this is a wide range of amendments which, in general, the Government has autonomy to propose and do. But there is, in fact, an amendment which, as I shall explain, implies legislative authorization, which, with the proposed law, is intended to obtain. What's this about? This is a specific aspect related to strengthening the powers and access rights of GPIAAF researchers. With regard to the strengthening of the rights that are intended to be conferred, and which objectively reinforce the powers of the GPIAAF — beyond a few things, such as access to the site becomes immediate, access to on-board equipment that allows information on accidents to be collected to be unlimited, etc. — it is also part of the right of access to video surveillance images that are relevant to research, which we will all agree will be a fundamental instrument for this research. Now, as we know, access to video surveillance images contains rights, freedoms and guarantees that deserve constitutional consecration, these matters of the sole competence of the Assembly of the Republic, but may be committed to the Government, through the authorization of the same Assembly. Basically, that is what the Government is asking this House to do with the introduction of this bill. Let me also highlight the following: the use of video surveillance images that may exist, either at the location of the occurrence, or in cameras inside the circulating material involved, is a very important medium and often the only means that allows to fully clarify the circumstances in which the accident occurred and what actually happened. On the other hand, we note that Portugal is currently the only Member State in which the national body responsible for the investigation of accidents is prevented from accessing video surveillance images directly relevant to the investigation and to clarify the circumstances of these occurrences. It is clear that this impossibility of access impairs the efficiency and speed of investigations, compromising our objectives to improve the safety of rail transport and also, in some ways, explicitly contradicting the rights of access which, under the new directive, the Portuguese State should confer on the GPIAAF for its investigations. Having said this, we consider that the legislative authorization we request is clearly justified: from then on, given the public interest in access to video surveillance images for the IPIAAF investigations ; on the other hand, from a more formal point of view, given the requirements for access to information by research are expressly clear in the directive that we have to transpose; and also given the fact that GPIAAF workers are explicitly linked to the duty of secrecy on all and any personal information they have knowledge of during the investigations, which guarantees, in some way, protection against undue access to data. It will be clear the interest of visualizing these images, particularly in order to understand, in a rapid manner, what happened in the accident and, in addition to clarifying the incident or accident, to take steps to prevent future accidents. This is what, in a brief way, is behind the bill that we present, which we hope will have your agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u5	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : We are discussing a proposal for a law from the Government, which follows the transposition of a directive on road safety...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u7	Railway!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u8	Railway, exactly! This Directive determines that certain types of accidents and incidents are investigated in each Member State by an independent entity. In some ways, this directive and, now, this bill have been correcting something that should have been corrected for a long time, which has to do with access to video surveillance images that may exist on the scene of the incident or accident. This is very important for an investigation, as it is too obvious. But the government has also been late in this matter, because it has allowed the directive to pass, which should have been transposed for a long time. This assessment must be made at every moment by the government in office, which must not allow deadlines, which must not be left to the end, because there are matters like this, which are, of course, very important to clarify the causes and responsibilities of these accidents and incidents. However, this impediment has been detrimental to many of the investigations. It should be pointed out in this same debate that there is a lack of human resources, that there are pending cases of accidents over 14 years ago, and that the reason for having these processes "in the bathroom" for 14 years has precisely to do with the lack of resources. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, it is very important that the directive be transposed, this bill is very important, but it is also important to provide these offices and human resources structures that allow the investigations, having access to such images, to have completed and not pending processes 14 years ago. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u9	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, so Mr Carlos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Railway safety, in addition to demanding, must be continuously improved. It is a process in constant adaptation to technological developments, both in active safety systems, and in redundancy and rail risk mitigation systems. In view of the risks and impacts of accidents on human lives, it is recommended that the authorities do not push the belly and that maximum priority be given to accident prevention, in particular in compliance with the recommendations of the authority responsible for investigating, monitoring, monitoring and defining the safety procedures that are issued after the reports of accidents and incidents related to the railway. This directive dates May 2016 and should have been transposed into national legislation by June 2016. That's not how it happened. The government had four years to go over it, but it is worth more than ever. However, compensation remains for the government, as it is user and worker in excess of deadlines for the transposition of directives into national legislation. in these circumstances, this transposition of the directive sins late and we sincerely hope that it will not be the result of the regrettable and serious accident on the North Line. This transposition should not whiten out government responsibilities, and the examples of that responsibility are numerous and worrying, in which we see the government dealing with these situations reasonably passively. Otherwise, let's see: there are investigations into train accidents that have been completed 12 years ago, when the law says that investigations should not exceed one year; 21 incidents are under investigation, of which 14 are evictions; those responsible for the incident investigation office claim that they do not have sufficient human and technical means to meet the deadline, yet alerting the growing insecurity on the railway. This is a cabinet which is in the hierarchical dependence of the government and which still, with these inadequacies, produced a set of 45 recommendations between 2016 and 2018, of which 16 were not accepted by the IP ( Infrastructures de Portugal ). Everything points out that the effective compliance with the successive recommendations of the GPIAAF since 2016 could have contributed to the avoidance of the serious accident on the North Line between the Alfa train and the maintenance drain, which resulted in the loss of human lives. The representative structures of the workers alert to the continued degradation of railways and trains, namely: there are trains whose engines fall to pieces; there are trains that only operate with an engine; there are no workers for maintenance and repair and there are no parts; there is a lack of control of the weight of freight trains, which is very serious; there is a lack of communication networks between trains and IP control. All of this seriously impairs traffic safety. The report of the Institute for Mobility and Transport ( IMT ) states that in 2018 there was a worsening of railway sinequality. With regard to 2017, the number of significant accidents increased by 25 %. The Court of Auditors recently carried out an audit of the operationality of infrastructures and transports, resulting in an unsatisfactory picture of national infrastructures: in the railway, only 11 % of the lines are in good condition, 33 % are considered unsatisfactory and 15 % are in very bad condition. Mr President, the Portuguese are waiting for the State to fail them. Like sovereignty issues, the realisation and realisation of the best safety standards around infrastructure must be a national design, it must be a great challenge, which, unfortunately, in Portugal, is to be met. in these circumstances, you just have to say the PSD that there is still a long way to go. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u11	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : We are discussing today a bill that obviously stems from the need for transposition of a directive that is already in 2016 and that has to do with not only rail safety but specifically with the ability of Member States' offices to investigate to advance accident prevention. in this matter, in Portugal, we have had some problems that are not new and that have been filled over the last few years, but which, unfortunately, have still given rise to numbers relating to rail accidents that are far from what we all would like to have. We are also reminded of the serious accident that occurred on the North Line in August of this year with the beating of an Alfa Pendular on a catenary conservation vehicle. At that time, the Left Block Parliamentary Group addressed to the Government a written question on the conclusions of a report by the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents, which has not yet received an answer. It seemed important to us to understand, in particular, the work of this office, which is the target of an increase in capacity with this bill, because a number of recommendations that resulted from an accident investigated in 2016 and that have to do with the prevention of road accidents are, in part, still not met. It is not perceived—including, at the time, representative structures of workers raised these issues—and we have not yet received a response from the Government. On the subject of the diploma currently under discussion, this is a relatively simple legislative authorization to give greater research capacity to the railway accident office, in particular in access to image capture after an accident or incident. However, we would like to point out that at the moment we are dealing with research — obviously safeguarding the rights that need to be safeguarded — but there is still a long way to go on the other side — that of rail prevention. In fact, this is a very strong debate that we have had in Parliament over the past few years, particularly on public investment in rail and the delays that have existed in many works of updating, modernising speed control systems or even on the road itself, which would help in the prevention of rail accidents and which continue to be far from what would be necessary. Therefore, on the part of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we believe that, as important as we are moving forward in research, it would be much more relevant for us to be able to move forward more quickly in public investment on the railway, whose implementation is delayed — we know — for a long time. There, yes, we have the conditions to create a modernized rail network, capable of safeguarding the safety of those who use the train, but also of the workers themselves, which has not happened in some cases. That, yes, would be the most relevant right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u13	Let us turn to the intervention of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by giving Mr Adam Silva a word for the recent election for the duties he will perform, wishing to vote for a good mandate. I am focusing on the subject that we are now discussing, which is only a formal issue, but which is quite important for us to be able to move forward in the investigation of rail accidents in Portugal. Rail safety is, of course, a design for all those who are in government functions and it is something that will certainly unite us in this House. To be more secure means defending people's lives and health, it means defending the safety conditions of those who use our railways. Identifying the causes of an accident, knowing why a particular accident or incident is a decisive way of correcting and improving our conditions of movement and thus also defending the citizens. We must learn from mistakes and that means we must know how to interpret them and solve them. It is therefore essential — I believe that we also join in this issue — to provide all the tools, to equip the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents, the entity which, in Portugal, has the responsibility and responsibility to deal with this matter. To design its function, it needs to be efficient and also, as has already been said, fast and effective. To this end, it is recognized that the images of video surveillance recordings that may possibly exist at the location of the accident or nearby are a very important means and, often, perhaps, the only one to clarify the circumstances in which the accident occurred. This is precisely the point that brings us to the debate — and not investment in rail — on which I would very much like to say. Today there is a barrier which, by virtue of the General Data Protection Regulation, prevents the use of these images in various circumstances from being a reality, which we understand — at least so far in the interventions that have been made — from being fundamental. But it is also important to understand or, at least, answer three questions regarding this premise. First, is there any public interest in access to video surveillance images for research? Secondly, are you or are you not guaranteed that the workers of the Accident Prevention and Research Office are linked to the duty of secrecy? Third, the interest in visualizing images is the identification of people or is it first to understand the development of accidents? If we find affirmative, clear and thorough answers to these three questions — and possibly others — we are in a position to say that the legislative authorization we are now discussing will, in the event of approval, seem to be a very relevant step in the analysis of rail accidents and thus an advance in the security of the network implemented in our territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u15	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u16	Mr President, I also begin by congratulating Mr Adam Silva on his election, hoping that his mandate will run with the best success. We are implementing a directive that we should have transposed in legislation a long time ago. We have about 20 accidents prior to 2011 that are still under investigation and we have 18 serious cases that have not been completed since 2011 : 20 and 18, two numbers that are not even sustainable with a rapid investigation which in most countries of the European Union can already develop quickly and effectively. That is why it is a directive that can lead us to a path that we must take: video surveillance images, as well as the strengthening of some means of research, are fundamental. But it must be said that in the area of rail prevention this year, this government has said everything when it acquires trains with asbestos for EUR 1, EUR 65 million to Spain. I said everything about what, for you, is really railway safety. It has been reported, although little, in Portugal, but it has been reported more in Spain : 1, 65 million euros per train with asbestos!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u17	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u18	I will finish, Mr. President. This says a lot about what for the government is rail safety. We need to increase the means and we need to improve the research, but it is to be done now and not from here for more than 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u19	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prevention of rail accidents and the guarantee of their investigation in terms of ensuring that all failures have been resolved and all responsibilities are certainly one of the objectives in all parties. This proposal for a law of the Government is, in our view, positive in the solutions it proposes to achieve this objective, although, rather than in the form of legislative authorization, it should come in a way that allows Parliament to adapt the amendments it considers necessary. With this legislative amendment, Portugal will no longer be the only country in the European Union where the entity responsible for safety investigation and railway accidents and incidents cannot access video surveillance images relevant to the investigation of railway accidents, which represents a positive advance. However, the effectiveness and speed of prevention and investigation of road and rail accidents require much more than legislative amendments, demands commitment and political will from the Government, something that has not always happened in recent years. For example, it is public that a report by the Aviation and Railway Accident Prevention and Research Office of 2016 recommended that the Government, in order to prevent certain railway accidents, ensure a strengthening of the training of service vehicle drivers and that these vehicles be equipped with CONVEL (auto-speed control), a speed controller that makes it stop composition in case of human failure. What have the two governments of the Socialist Party done these four years? Little or nothing. Another example is that the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents currently has only two technicians for the investigation of railway accidents, which has led to the filing of some cases and the delay in the investigation of cases relating to accidents that occurred almost 15 years ago. The hiring of a third technician has been requested for years by this entity and is already planned for three years, only by not moving forward because the government does not withdraw the authorization for the contract. How much longer will it take for the authorization to leave the drawer? One last example: the National Railway Safety Authority has already repeatedly alerted the Government to the lack of means of the Institute of Mobility and Transport, an entity responsible for the monitoring of railway safety issues, which, until last month, had only four technicians throughout the country to monitor 3244 km of extension and 4441 compositions. That's not enough! The government has done little about this. These examples show that prevention and research on road safety require more than amendments to the law and certainly, if you have political will, it is not because of this Parliament's will that the government will not be able to implement the necessary measures to the country and that there is too long to be realized. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next speaker, I must say that we already have voting quorum and that there are more Members in the Chamber. I therefore call on the heads of the parliamentary groups to ensure that Members who should be in their offices do so. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor then for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : This debate and this legislative process have a characteristic, I would say, a bit or as paradoxical. The proposal for a legislative authorization law in the three simple articles which contain—and in the same way the intervention of the Secretary of State—refers to the question of access to information and video surveillance for the purposes of investigating rail accidents. But the draft decree annexed to the request for legislative authorisation goes a great deal beyond this issue and makes very significant changes — some of them, from our point of view, are very worrying — in relation to the structure itself and the regime for research and prevention of rail accidents. That's what we've been worried about now. from a specific point of view, the authorization of the Assembly of the Republic to frame, in this legislation, the use of video surveillance images in itself has a problem: it is being debated in sectoral terms only with regard to transport policy. That I know, 1st. the Commission has not delivered its opinion on this matter and, as I know, the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) has not delivered its opinion to the Assembly of the Republic on this matter. 'It will still be in time,...' the Government will say — '...the CNPD may bring its opinion to the Government for the purpose of approving the decree. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is important that the Assembly of the Republic be informed during this process about these positions and analyses, which so far do not exist from the strict legal point of view of the use of video surveillance with regard to data protection. This is an issue that cannot fail to be pointed out. from the point of view of the operation of the Cabinet, the consolidation of the union policy of the former GISAF ( Office for Security Research and Railway Accidents) with the former GPIA ( Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves ), together with the investigation of aeronautical accidents with that of railway accidents in the same entity, which we criticized and which is critical, is something that this decree-law, in advance, is enshrined. On the other hand, it is necessary to clarify the obvious deception in this debate, because the Community directive which is being referred to and transposed is not about the use of video surveillance. This directive is an instrument within the European Union rail package to consolidate and further carry the liberalisation and entry of railway operators from one country to another. And the famous harmonisation of research procedures in this area, including the role of other authorities from other countries, Member States of the European Union, and their coming to Portugal, in the event of accidents with foreign operators, has everything to do with this nefarious process for rail safety itself which is the liberalisation of the sector. When we condemn what has been happening, we speak of successive governments that have broken down the national railway, have segmented the CP (trains of Portugal ), have separated, as it is said, the round of the rail and then joined the track to the tar, which was the worst thing that they have done and insist on doing in the railway system. However, the research offices have joined in relation to aviation and rail, and there is a huge lack of means in the rail system and in all the bodies responsible for the investigation and prevention of accidents and in relation to rail safety itself and the quality of rail transport. That is the concern that we cannot but underline. Therefore, when we draw attention to the much to be discussed about the decree which the Government is preparing to approve, here we will be, Mr Secretary of State, to draw attention to what is there from a negative and worrying point of view, including in the procedures itself in the investigation of railway accidents. Therefore, we must not fail to express our concern about what is at stake and point the finger at this directive and this policy, in general and in a cross-cutting manner, of liberalisation and privatization of rail transport. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u23	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u24	Mr President, with regard to this argument that the railway situation is due to successive governments, that the current government will be responsible for using as a response, I would like to say only two things. First, as regards the lack of employees, in 2014 the GPIAAF and the IMT warned about the lack of technicians in this area. The government then opened a competition for 100 professionals. The next minister in custody, Pedro Marques, put the contest in the drawer. Therefore, as regards the lack of workers, there was precisely on the table a process of hiring workers. Second, regarding the late investigations, this government, as well as the previous, which took possession in 2016, in the face of the delays of more than 12 years, opened a special plan for dealing with the incidents from 2015 onwards, forgetting all others. So, as to the allegations that the present situation depends on the government of the troika, here are two facts that totally deny them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u25	To close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Infrastructures, Jorge Delgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by congratulating myself on the general agreement and unanimity on the importance of the GPIAAF to have access to the images, which our proposal for a law aims to resolve. In addition to what you have been discussing here, while replying to the questions that have been raised, I would like to address some of them. The first is related to the human resources of the GPIAAF. Obviously, we want to have more and more resources and we have to have the best and the best. The truth is, at this moment, there is already an order signed by me, and it will now have to be signed by the Ministry of Finance to authorize the GPIAAF to hire a third investigator. On the other hand, we are proposing to place in the State budget a rule enabling the GPIAAF to waive special authorisation whenever charges for investigative-related services exceed the charges of the previous year. This is a general rule, which, in the case of GPIAFF, is important that there is no such thing as accidents happen when we least expect and fail to predict them. Therefore, it is normal that the charges with research needs and with researchers outside the GPIAFF, which we have to hire to do this work, can be done quickly, without having to wait for authorization. This is a relevant aspect. Still with regard to security, speaking now of the IMT, which has been mentioned here, it is true that the International Railway Safety Agency has made an assessment of the state of the IMT and, in accordance with the IMT, has defined a recovery plan and is monitoring its implementation regularly — quarterly, except error. Therefore, what is expected is that there is an ongoing competition for the hiring of persons for railway safety, there is another competition in preparation, we already have a request for the hiring of three external advances, seniors, to speed up the process, until the people who result from the competitions arrive, and we are still working with public companies that have professionals in this area to, through internal transfers between companies, assign them to the IMT in order to solve the issue in a more immediate way. With regard to the generalised safety issues of the infrastructure, I believe that, as has often been mentioned, it is known that, as a result of the abandonment of the railway area for many years, the state of the infrastructure is not ideal. In any case, on the one hand, we always guarantee and we are sure that we are circulating in safe infrastructures — there is no doubt about it — and then I think that there is no memory of such a large investment plan, whether in rail infrastructure, whether in rolling material, such as the one we are drawing and, more than that, implementing. I would like to leave a final note on the question of asbestos, which has now been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u27	I ask you to conclude, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u28	Asbestos does not interfere with the safety of any train, it is a public health problem that is being solved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u29	We turn to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 51 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957. To open the debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law submitted by the Government to this Parliament aims to implement the transposition into the Portuguese legal system of the content of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957, which covers the directive on the posting of workers dated 1996. This review focused on the objective of countering abusive practices and promoting the principle that the same work, carried out in the same place, should be paid in the same way. The posting of workers plays an essential role in the internal market, particularly in the provision of transnational services. The Treaty on European Union establishes the right of undertakings to provide their services in other Member States. The freedom to provide services may only be restricted for compelling reasons of general interest, provided that they are justified, proportionate and applied in a non-discriminatory manner. In 2019, around 3 million workers were posted within the European Union, representing an increase of almost 30 % compared to 2016, when the proposed revision was submitted. But this upward trend has been visible since 2009. In 2014 the Implementing Directive introduced new and strengthened instruments to combat and punish circumvention of fraudulent and abusive rules and practices, addressing problems caused by so-called 'façade companies' and strengthening the ability of Member States to monitor working conditions and enforce the applicable rules and also establishing arrangements for improving administrative cooperation between national authorities responsible for posting. With the revision carried out by the directive whose transposition is required, the objective pursued was to deepen and modernise the legislative framework for the posting of workers, contributing to creating more transparent and equitable conditions for those same workers. The draft authorized decree annexed to the bill submitted to the opinion and vote of the Assembly of the Republic, reflects that same concern. It therefore adopts the solutions we think best to serve the structural principles and values of the European social model, in which we review ourselves. The principle of equal treatment and the prohibition of any discrimination on grounds of nationality are enshrined in Union law since the founding treaties. They are also, in the Portuguese legal system, constituent factors, with constitutional consecration, of the decent society model that we recommend. The Directive to be transposed, adopted by the Council after a long and complex negotiation process, aims to ensure the protection of workers during their posting in the context of the provision of services, establishing mandatory provisions relating to working conditions and the protection of the health and safety of workers. It shall establish that Member States shall ensure that, irrespective of the law applicable to work relations, undertakings shall ensure, on the basis of equal treatment, the conditions of work and employment in their territory relating to an extended set of subjects, such as: working periods and rest periods; paid holidays; remuneration; health, safety and hygiene at work; protection of pregnant women and pregnant women, children and young people; equal treatment between men and women; housing conditions; allowances and allowances or reimbursement of expenses to cover travel, food and housing expenses for workers away from home for professional reasons. Portugal has generally supported the Commission's proposal and its underlying objectives and has actively contributed to the conclusion of a balanced final text. The terms in which the Government intends to transpose this important legal instrument into the domestic legal order are in line with the commitment to have a solid, coherent legislative framework and, above all, promoter of greater equality and social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u31	Mr Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the Bill No 51 / XIV / 1. a text from the Government sent to the Assembly of the Republic to authorize it to legislate in matters relating to the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services, thus transposing a Community directive for the Portuguese legal system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, it is important to repeat a little of what has already been said in the previous debate: the Government has not worked on the transposition of Community directives in time and time. It has been practical with this government to transpose the Community directives out of time in our country. The Government had two years to implement this Community directive. The deadline would end on 30 July and our Government was subject to Brussels' notice of failure to comply with these deadlines. Then there is also a very important fact: the Government sends to the Assembly of the Republic a document with 49 pages, of which only the first 7 pages, of which the Government's request for authorization to transpose the Community directive into Portuguese legal order, concerns us and the other 42 pages are the decree-law. Mr Secretary of State, we really appreciate the Government's kindness in sending the decree to the Assembly of the Republic, but that is not what we are pouring out on. As a matter of curiosity, we have read the opinions and contributions of the social partners on this matter of posting workers, and we note — it is necessary to warn the Government to do so — how the Government transposes this directive into the Portuguese legal system. It is therefore necessary to highlight this and to draw the Government's attention to dialogue, in order to consult, in order to hear the social partners, who have always, over time, made great contributions and major interventions in terms of labour. We can't stop doing this, to the blight of a pandemic; in fact, it should be the reverse process: in times of crisis, we should value dialogue and consultation with the partners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u33	That should be exactly how the government should behave, but not. We have seen the incident that took place last week: the Government, in the Council of Ministers, in a sort of approval, generally refers to the shift of hours of workers now, to apply in time of pandemic, but only then will it consult the social partners, who felt neglected only to be heard after this government decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u34	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u35	So, Mr. Secretary of State, let me tell you that it is not worth contradicting me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u36	Isn't that all right? Oh, my God! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u37	... also, even the advice on the posting of workers, to consult the opinion of the CIP ( Confederation of Enterprises of Portugal ), the opinion of the UGT ( General Workers'Union ), the opinion of the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), where you will see that the PSD is right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u38	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u39	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, in the field of posting workers, you must have the ability to draw up an appropriate decree, where they must better define the scope of the posting of workers, they must have the capacity in legislation to prevent better non-compliance, they must have the ability to sanction when these breaches of legislation occur, they must also have the call to inform businesses, whether workers or public bodies, and — a very important aspect — they must have the ability to place the Portuguese Public Administration to contribute more and more, or with the countries of origin of the workers we receive in order to meet our labour needs, either with the countries where our Portuguese workers are also heading. We can never forget and should again leave the alert we have made on the part of the PSD with regard to the contribution, operation and allocation of resources of the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ),... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u40	... because, if this link between workers, employers, public bodies and political decision-makers is done well, this work will work. Work is always unfinished when we refer to improving the protection and rights of workers, but there is much to be done. What the government has to do is give the best example of proximity to workers, give the best example of proximity and hearing to companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u41	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u42	... so that we can achieve the best goal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u43	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: The issue of posting workers is of particular importance and relevance in the context of increasing labour migration. This proposed law, which the Government submits, transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957, which, by revising the previous directive concerning the posting of workers, in practice, makes it possible for an endless period of posting, depending on the needs of the employer. This same directive, from which this bill is a transposition, removes to companies the responsibility for the application of labour rights and clearly slams the door to temporary work enterprises, which, as we know, as it is demonstrated and, above all, as it is every day by the workers of these companies, have practices based on precariousness, low wages, irregular schedules and failure to comply with a set of labour rules and laws, including standards of hygiene, health and safety at the workplace, ignoring and atropelling consecrated labour rights. what we are talking about, in practice, is to maintain and guarantee a mobile cheap workforce, which feeds the profits of large European transnational companies. This bill, which transposes this directive, introduces concepts, premises and possibilities—and we can see it by consulting the annex and the decree proposed by the Government to submit, amending Law No 29/2017 with the introduction of these concepts, such premises and such possibilities, which it did not include— in particular with regard to the use of temporary work enterprises and long-term detachment. There are no temporary limitations on the use of the posted worker and the posting of workers continues to be discretionary in relation to the will of employers, in particular the great patronage. What we understand and advocate is that the posting of workers should be treated as an exceptional situation, of limited duration over time, guaranteeing the worker the same working conditions and remuneration as the workers of the host country that will integrate it, because someone who is working 18 months—as set out in the directive and referred to in this bill—two years or more in another country is not highlighted, is in an immigration situation. This proposal we have discussed strongly contributes to the establishment of genuine networks for the posting of workers at a very low cost for companies. We understand that it is necessary to define maximum periods of detachment. It is necessary for companies to assume all their responsibilities on their workers and that they are not considered, for example, reimbursements which, in practice, may be elements of the remuneration of workers or even aid at cost. It is necessary to cut with national and international networks that feed on the precariousness, low wages, cheap and temporary labour, which allows employers, in particular the great patronage, to accumulate profits at the expense of the exploitation of workers and a continuing degradation of their working conditions. It is necessary to combat and eliminate the use of temporary employment companies to recruit workers who meet the permanent needs of companies, which has gone from exception to the rule and is increasingly recurrent practice. Labour rights must be guaranteed equally for all workers and equal work must be paid equally, as is also provided for in our Constitution. It is necessary to guarantee labour rights and protect the rights of migrant workers, who, in the overwhelming majority of times, leave their countries seeking solutions in another country because they do not find answers in their own country. However, this is not reflected in the directive — which is done, in fact, by large companies and large groups — nor in this bill, which, in the annex and in the decree which the Government intends to publish, has articles which cause us deep reservations and which we cannot follow. The way forward must be economic and social progress, the fight against the most diverse discrimination, the defence of equal rights and opportunities and the respect for the dignity of those who work. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u45	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The posting of workers is a very important issue in the world of work of the twenty-first century and in Portugal open to the European Union. Moreover, we are a country with a large number of workers in the European Union working under posting arrangements and many are the Portuguese workers in this space outside that also work under this regime. In view of the need to strengthen the protection of posted workers and to ensure the limitation of practices of social and economic dumping and abuse of subcontracting, Directive(EU) 2018 / 957 ensured some progress in relation to the workers' posting regime. We highlight the case of the forecasting of a principle of equal treatment between posted workers and workers in the Member State of posting in respect of remuneration and terms and working conditions, including temporary workers, or the forecasting of a more secured concept of remuneration. With the transposition today proposed by the Government, some of these advances become part of the Portuguese legal system. This is the case, for example, with the provision of certain rights of posted workers in relation to the housing conditions made available by the employer, the forecast of a presumption that all amounts not expressly paid as remuneration are considered as reimbursement of expenses or greater transparency regarding information on the conditions of work being posted. However, there is still a way to go. In particular, there are two aspects in which for the NAP this Government proposal does not seem to adequately implement the provisions of the Directive. The first aspect relates to the reduction of the maximum duration limit of the detachment for 12 months, which can be extended up to 18 months. This reduction in the limit is positive and gives guarantees to the worker, however, it would have been good if the Government had clearly and taxablely placed the cases in which there may be an extension and envisaged the possibility of the ACT to refuse this extension, on the ground that there is a risk of practical application that it considers that this extension is automatically deferred, not safeguarding the interests and needs of the worker, which does not meet the objective of protecting the worker, provided for in the Directive. The second aspect is in line with Article 7 ( 1 ( ( e ). that of the Labour Code, applicable to the posted worker, which continues to refer to the minimum remuneration, which clearly goes against the spirit of the directive, which no longer refers to minimum remuneration and has referred only to remuneration, which indicates that the principle of equal pay between seconded workers and workers of the Member State should operate, relatively not only on respect for minimum remuneration, but on remuneration in general. Therefore, here too, the protection of the outstanding worker is at stake, which should have deserved a better weighting on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u47	Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u48	Mr President, there is a long history of the use of social dumping as a mechanism for imposing workers displaced to another country's worst wages, worse health and safety conditions, worse times, lower working conditions. We know how these practices, these mechanisms are also powerful food for racist hate, for xenophobic discourses, putting workers against each other. The directive, which came from the 1990s, on outstanding workers had a huge set of holes that strongly stimulated the practices of social dumping. In fact, we know these dumping practices well. Again recently, at a meeting with Ryanair workers, we were able to observe what are the poor practices of a company which refuses to apply Portuguese law in Portugal, and which takes advantage precisely of legal holes to impose worse conditions, abuses, exploitation and an unacceptable standard of work. For this reason, the debate on the regulation of these posting mechanisms and on the equalization of working conditions seems to be of the greatest importance: from the outset, limiting the use of the concept itself, the scope of the posting figure, but also ensuring that, for all elements of remuneration, the so-called "subsidies" of travel, food, housing, maximum periods and minimum working periods, the conditions of health and safety, the way these rules apply to temporary work agencies, the regulation of housing conditions, the law protecting workers and equalizing working conditions. In addition, it is impossible to discuss these matters without also talking about the need for an effective articulation of labour inspections and the ability to inspect the work itself in these cases. In the debate in the European Parliament, in 2017 - 2018, the right objected to aspects of the revision of the directive, because it was opposed to some important elements of the application of collective bargaining to posted workers, the application and regulation regarding temporary work agencies, the extension of the concept of equal remuneration and not only of the minimum remuneration, which is indeed a problematic aspect of the diploma that the Government here brings, precisely because it is important to replace this logic of minimum by guaranteeing equal remuneration, which includes all components. We recognize that the amendments adopted in 2018 are limited and modest and will not definitely solve the problem of social dumping, but we also recognize that they are progressing towards the previous directive. At this level, we emphasize the way in which progress has been made, with regard to the concept of remuneration and the inclusion, in this concept, of equal treatment between workers as regards the way in which collective bargaining is applied to all, and this extension can protect workers and also enhance the role of unions, and clarification in relation to travel, housing and feeding costs, which cannot be deducted from wages, the remuneration of workers. We also stress how these rules should be extended to temporary work, with the obligation of users not only to inform but also to apply the most favourable conditions to temporary workers. Clearly, none of these rules nor the way the Government transposes them end with the abuses that exist, even because Portuguese law itself has, from this point of view, huge windows of precariousness. We see how Portuguese law is totally permissive in relation to temporary work and how, also in relation to outsourcing, we have a large number of inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u50	In conclusion, also knowing that there is a great distance between written law and law in practice, we hope that this review can be a step in strengthening the rights of those who work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u51	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys : As has already been said, we are not here discussing neither the directive nor the decree annexed to the bill brought by the Government. We are discussing the legislative authorization so that the government can make this transposition and on that we have to say the only thing that we have to say is that the government makes this transposition late, because it had two years to do it and did not implement it in that period. It should be said that, in Portugal, the effort to transpose directives in good time was made two governments ago. It was an important purpose for Portugal not to suffer from the negative consequences of late transposition of the directives, and the negative consequences are not only the processes that we can have on the part of the European Union. The negative consequences can be seen, for example, in the delay in transposition of this directive. Why? Because it transposes directives within or outside the time limit for transposition requires, for example, that the effects of transposition of these directives be applied immediately, eliminating the possibility of an adaptation period. And one of the problems of the solution attached to this bill is precisely the criticism made by the social partners, and quite rightly that such an amendment cannot be made without a period of adaptation. I even believe that if the Government could make an adjustment period, but as it delayed the transposition of the directive, it must now bring these rules into force immediately and that responsibility is exclusively the Government. As has already been said here, this is not the only criticism made by the social partners. It is not understood that the late transposition of a directive can generate unanimity in the criticism of the social partners, because this transposition is not opposed only to employers' organisations, it is not a transposition to which only the unions are opposed, it is a transposition to which everyone is opposed, for one reason or another. And we have the right to ask how in two years the Government has failed to promote, within the framework of social dialogue, a solution that had the exact opposite effect, i.e. that could generate a minimum consensus so that the partners, or at least some of them, would go through this solution. That is precisely why, because we understand that the Government has not taken full responsibility for this transposition, that we will abstain from voting on this transposition, not because we believe that the directive should not be transposed, but because we believe that the Government should receive the clear signal here that it should not be transposed in this way, much less with this type of process. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, my good days. I am giving the floor to Mrs Mara Carvalho of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u54	Mr. President, it's Mara Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u55	I'm sorry, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims to transpose into the domestic legal order Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which, as mentioned above, amends Directive ( EU ) 96 / 71 on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. in this sense, in addition to the legal perspective underlying the transposition of legislation, I also want to focus on the social, economic and political perspective of the context in which this amendment arises. We know that in recent decades we have experienced the phenomenon of globalization and for this has contributed to the technological revolution, the new forms of communication, the greater presence of the media and informal communication, the mobility of workers, and all this has come to bring people, territories and to break down barriers to the point that we today almost define ourselves as a global village. During the 20th century we witnessed the growth of multinational companies and consequently the situations in which workers from a company based in a particular country were invited to work in another country at the service of another company from the same group. However, with the implementation of the freedom of movement of persons, goods and services within the European Union, this greater mobility also began to occur in specialized workers, such as those of civil construction or agricultural workers, from countries with cheaper labour who were often called to perform their activities in countries where wage levels were significantly higher. It is in this historical context that the Community directive on the posting of workers emerges. Now, what began to be a phenomenon has become a trend and this is deeper and more comprehensive. The possibility of taking advantage of large-scale economies and the ease of operating in distant markets means that internationalization of business is not only an opportunity for large business groups, but a need for survival for small ones. in this framework, any worker may go to work temporarily for another country, regardless of their degree of qualification and the size of their employer. We know of the advantages, particularly for businesses, such as access to new markets, to meet specific and concrete labour needs in certain sectors. But the truth is that before Directive ( EU ) 96 / 71, the posting of workers posed several issues related to the legislation applicable to employment relations, especially when the rules of the countries of origin and reception presented different types of protection. Thus Directive ( EU ) 96 / 71 arises against this possibility of social dumping, as already mentioned here, in order to ensure fair conditions of competition between undertakings in the various Member States and thus to promote the freedom to provide cross-border services. In the course of more than 20 years of the adoption of Directive ( EU ) 96 / 71, in my view, the need to assess whether it ensured the necessary balance between promoting freedom to provide services, a fundamental principle of the internal market, and ensuring equitable conditions and, in our view, more importantly, the need to protect the rights of the posted workers. In recent years there has been an increase in the number of posted workers. We are all aware, « we see, hear and read, we cannot ignore», Sophia said, that various types of abuse have been recorded, such as exploitation of the vulnerability of these workers, situations of subcontracting and allocation of lower remuneration. in this sense, Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957 and the initiative presented by the Government to us have been amended and some provisions contained in the previous directive are amended in order to establish greater protection of the rights of workers temporarily seconded in a Member State other than that where they usually serve, also complying with those laid down in the Treaties of the European Union. It should be noted that the protection referred to here covers a number of areas, laying down mandatory provisions regarding working conditions, the protection of the health and safety of posted workers, without, however, prejudiceing the exercise of fundamental rights recognised by the Member States. In our view, the directive has another quite relevant provision in terms of strengthening guarantees regarding working conditions for workers and combating fraud and abuse in subcontracting situations, defining the undercontractor's solidarity responsibility. As far as working conditions are concerned, it is important to ensure that seconded workers have rights as regards housing conditions, when this is made available by the employer, especially now that we live at a time of pandemic, and it is further clarified that the remuneration covers all constituent elements made compulsory by law or collective regulation of general application. With regard to the posting of temporary workers, the user undertaking must inform the temporary worker about the working conditions that apply to its workers, so that they are applied to seconded temporary workers — and that is also an innovation — which would apply to such workers if they had been recruited by the user undertaking to occupy the same job. Finally, we want to reinforce that the social partners have been consulted, they said, there is no disagreement between what is proposed by the directive and what the Government is proposing to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u57	They've all pronounced themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u58	I also want to say that the Socialist Party trusts companies, in particular Portuguese companies, to implement this directive in the best way and we believe that the thousands of Portuguese workers who stand out from Portugal see their position strengthened and safeguarded with the application of this directive in the Member States, with greater protection, contrary to abusive practices that we all know exist and safeguard that the same work, done in the same place, must be paid in the same way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u59	I now give the floor, for an intervention, to Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Gabriel Bastos. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by thanking you for the comments you have made here and for the contributions you have made on this bill, and to note with satisfaction that, with regard to the essential core of this legislation and that it reflects the revision of the European Union directive, there is some consensus as to the progress achieved by this way and that we want to reflect in the domestic legal order, strengthening the rights of workers, making this protection more effective in an area that we all recognize raises particular difficulties. It also records the need for greater administrative transparency and information to workers, something which this draft authorized decree also reflects, and cooperation between inspection bodies within the European Union. As regards the contribution made by the social partners, I would like to make a brief comment to emphasize the concern we have always had, and in this particular, we had to listen to, listen to and accommodate the different perspectives of the social partners, whether on the employer's side or on the union side, in seeking to establish the necessary balance in the solutions we advocate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u61	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u62	Mr President, I am going to finish, but I just want to say, because this issue has also been pointed out about the timing of the debate, Mrs Deputies, that it is not true that it has been done that way. What has been a prior assessment within the government and a general approval, precisely in order to then be heard by the social partners on this solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u63	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate we will turn to point 3 of the agenda, the overall assessment of the Bill No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the legally binding lease regime. I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and the Planning of the Territory, João Catarino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In May, we adopted eight diplomas for forests in the Council of Ministers, in which we define territorial and selective policies, in particular the Land Transformation Programme. This programme, aimed at vulnerable forest territories due to the conflict between the danger of fire and land use and occupation, was based on the preparation of an integrated regulatory framework, which includes, from a legal, financial and territorial point of view, a set of structured responses which, we hope, will in fact drive the change of landscape. of the four programmatic measures that integrate the Program stand out the Integrated Landscape Management Areas, which define a grouped management model, aimed at specific microterritorial contexts and for which recognition of public interest and the linkage of the owners concerned is expected. It is necessary, once and for all, that, in parallel with the public financial support directed towards these territories, mechanisms should be guaranteed to help and hold rural owners responsible for the management of their properties. In cases where there is no voluntary adherence or where the owners are unknown, in order to obtain areas with minimum dimensions to implement projects with scale, the State should create mechanisms that unequivocally link private properties to these structural interventions. In order to respond to this basic condition, and in the context of the Land Transformation Programme, the Government approved, in the Council of Ministers, the draft bill establishing the legal regime for forced lease. Because the transformation of the landscape requires the mobilization of the owners, we feel it is absolutely necessary to propose the amendment of this legal framework. Ownership translates into full and exclusive enjoyment of the rights of use, use and disposition of the things of which it is lawful to possess, but with the limits and restrictions imposed by law, as set out in Article 1305. the Civil Code. The concept of social utility associated with property, present in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, calls for a set of conditionalisms that must be guaranteed by the need to protect the environment and promote rational management of natural resources, and it is up to the State to guarantee this ecological stability. The forced lease scheme shall apply-CL only in the Integrated Landscape Management Areas, to be constituted in territories classified as vulnerable or covered by large fires, with an area equal to or greater than 500 ha. Here, and only in situations where the owners do not voluntarily show the intention to carry out the interventions financed, I repeat, the interventions financed and planned for their building, the State may replace itself in the execution of these unadmissible interventions, resorting to forced lease, to the extent strictly necessary, appropriate and proportionate, taking into account the public interest in the presence, in order to enable the effective execution of such actions. With this proposal, the figure of the forced lease, already provided for the autonomous fractions and urban buildings, also covers the rustic buildings. This Government has already demonstrated its political will to act on this structural problem. We are now trying to go further, proposing to this House to legislate on rights, freedoms and guarantees. We cannot, but we also do not want to do it alone, because we believe that this is a national plan that we must carry out together, because we need even to go further, to go faster and also to have a closer, more collaborative state, but to have and exercise more authority over those who relinquish their responsibilities, endangering people, private or public heritage, whether material or natural. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Finally, the law on the general basis of public land policy, land planning and urbanism, adopted by Law No 31 / 2014 of 30 May 2014 established the duty to transpose the contents of the special territorial planning plans into municipal or inter-municipal plans applicable to areas covered by the special plans, within a maximum of three years from the date of the entry into force of that law. In view of the complexity involved in this matter, the first amendment to the Basic Law extended the transposition deadline until 13 July 2020. However, this procedure of transposition of standards has proved difficult and complex. In addition to the long period of operation of the generality of the special plans, it was found that, in many cases, the transposition of the rules of the special plans resulted in a mere exercise of literal transposition, which would imply the incorporation into the municipal directors' plans of outdated standards. Thus, sensitive to the arguments made by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the Government proposes to this House that the content of the special planning plans for the territory in force should be transposed, in accordance with the law, to the municipal or inter-municipal management plans applicable to the area covered by the special plans until 13 July 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u65	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Adding another attempt to the State is what this Bill No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and, further, Law Proposal No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), which we will discuss next, intend to do. this time, it is the Ministry of the Environment who wants a new rural landscape and who does not agree to venture the forced lease (the name says almost everything). The Government, with this legislative authorization, wants to profoundly alter the extent of the power of the State, which passes from the power to intervene in abandoned and unknown land to the power to decide how land should be managed whose owner is known but which does not manage it in the way that the State understands, because it does not want or so often because it cannot. Instead of trying to understand the origin of the problem and find solutions, the State again believes that it knows more than people and that it can decide for them, forcefully. This is a clear violation of people's constitutional rights. Moreover, there is no penalty for the State and its agents, in case they fail to comply with what justified forced lease. In other words, the State conscientiously leases to carry out a set of actions with defined deadlines, but if nothing happens, no one is responsible and the citizen, who cannot have his good for 50 years, is receiving an income that the State imposes, may have to pay for benefits that he does not decide and nothing can do. More State, less people—is the socialist mantra! [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u67	Mr João Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u68	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate you, as well as the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries. Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and Land Planning, this legislative authorization which the Government has requested from the Assembly of the Republic is another step in deepening the attack on small property and also on the authorities. On the one hand, it deepens the idea that "the great evils of the forest" are largely the result of the structure of the rustic property with predominance of the minifundium, on the other hand, of a municipalisation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as far as it is known, the large forest property, even of contiguous areas, of the country in general and of the North and the Centre in particular, is not quite synonymous with good management and ordination and has not been saved more from fires than the small property. We do not ignore that only 1 % of farms have 100 or more hectares of extension. However, the concentration of the forest area on large farms is quite noticeable and 1 % of farms have about 55% of the country's total forest area. So we should ask: why do we burn extensive areas of surrogates in the summer, in the area of great Alentejan and Ributejan property, not to speak in some areas even managed by the celluloses? Oh, my God! Why have significant and extensive areas of forest, with dimensions of thousands of hectares, where the State has particular responsibilities, such as in the national forests, that the Pinhal de Leiria is a good example, or in protected areas of natural parks, such as the Sierra de São Mamede or the Peneda-Gerês, also devastated by the scourge of fires, already this summer and clearly in previous years? Oh, my God! Therefore, Mr. Secretary of State, the argument of small property is false and can only pretend to hide incompetence, incapacity and errors of successive policies. That thesis is that, by taking responsibility for the small property and the small owner for the abandonment of forests, he and other governments for disastrous agroforestry policies, which have desertification and desertification the rural and inland world, which have withdrawn productive and environmental harmony to the linkage of agricultural land / livestock / land from the family farms in the North and Central of the Country, that the the thesis that, by responsible for small property, they de-responsibility the government for the lack of planning of the Portuguese forest, when it is known that the Basic Law of Forest Policy, which was already adopted in 1996, has not been implemented by the PS and PSD/CDS governments, not even providing the necessary budgetary and human resources. The aim is to blame the small forest owner and the shares of the baldium for the little or no economic viability of the Portuguese forest is to forget the responsibilities of successive governments for a policy to market timber entirely in their hands and in accordance with the interests of celluloses, agglomerates and other large consumer industries, either by price policy or by the policy to liberalise imports. That thesis, Mr. Secretary of State, of responsible the small forest owner for the lack of management, which, now, say active and appropriate of the forest, seeks to pass a sponge on the responsibility of successive governments as technical co-managers of the baldiums and seeks to make forget that the failure to fulfill his role as technical manager in the nearly 400 thousand hectares of baldium forest has resulted in the degradation and abandonment of the forest. The aim is to hold the small owner responsible for the state to which the national forest has arrived is to forget the policies of the minimum state, which, within the good neoliberal philosophy, the successive governments have applied to the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture towards the forest, liquidating the forest extension, reducing regional services to the bone, of which Pedrogão Grande is well the example, since it does not have a single service of rural or forestry extension. That thesis that the evil of all evils is the small minifundium is more than proven. That is why, Mr. President and Mr. Members of the government, the government pursues the policy that diverts attention from the real problems of the forest faced by agriculture and the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u69	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u70	I shall now finish, Mr President, by saying that they do not have us for this policy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Marques, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: The subject under discussion is very serious, relevant and even decisive for the future of the national territory. It is relevant to the forest, determining for better management and management of the forest space. Thus, in the face of a land structure as dispersed and fragmented as ours, voted for abandonment due to lack of income of the owners, this forced lease tool may be a serious ally for a new agroforestry management, but not the main one. It is worth refocusing the debate on forest policy for our country, where more than 90% of the forest is private, has a very small size and is exposed to high biotic and abiotic risks. We should therefore value the forest by increasing the profitability of the rustic plots. How? Through the strengthening of the associative movement and the interprofessional organization of the sector, involving producer organisations, involving the authorities, with a true programme of counseling and technical assistance; through active incentives to invest in the forest, to assign to these organizations of proprietary producers, to the reforestation, management, maintenance and loss of income in the first years of the process, I repeat, in the first years of the process, what is important. We certainly agree that forest plans are needed integrated into a landscape transformation plan, in different regional realities, with the supervision of the ICNF, forming an integral part of the PDM and PDR(regional development programmes), and that, in addition to forest mosaics, they value and cost other related and complementary activities of forest production. But we do not agree that it is done at the expense of the small owners or with a direct policy. As long as it complies with the guidelines contained in the forest plans, the owner must always have freedom of decision. The implementation of these policies, as I have said, is essentially through financial, fiscal and technical support to the owners who associate themselves, by seducing them to associationism and not by pure and simple forced lease. This instrument will always have to be the last act, the last step, and directed only to those who deliberately do not want to associate and benefit from the support granted, refuse to comply with the forestry planning plans for that region or those provenly abandoned properties or unknown owners, because it is agreed that they cannot challenge a new forest policy based on the new paradigm that is intended to be implemented. The PSD, a private property defender, supports forced lease only and only within the limits of the Constitution. More: above all, knowing the difficulty the State has manifested in managing its properties, and this is an example of what has happened to the fires in the State properties, we do not trust this discretionary power of almost nationalization of the property that is covered by the Bill No. 47 / XIV / 1. a. E, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to leave the following questions: is the revaluation of the rustic buildings to follow? What are the consequences of IMI (municipal property tax)? Is it a future form of the State to subtract the money it will then pay its forced income from the owners? And the income, per hectare, receiving from the state, who and how is determined? How is the fair value of forced income guaranteed? More: if a landlord wishes to denounce the lease contract, he must compensate the State for the benefits made in the leased buildings. Is the State also willing to pay owners the works and trees planted or growing before the establishment of the IGCs (integrated landscape management operations)? in this respect, the bill is omitted, but what is worth in one sense must be in the other. We hope that this situation will be considered in future regulations. What remains for the owners who lead them to adhere to a system in which the State gives with one hand and takes them both? All these relevant issues are considered by us and raise serious concerns for the future. That is, how will the Government subsequently regulate this legislative authorization for forced lease of private property? It has been guaranteed that this will happen only in the last instance, but the PSD does not rest because the left-wing drifts of this government... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... which we have seen in recent times allow us to anticipate future concerns regarding fundamental right and enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in respect of private property. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u73	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The solutions advocated in this bill come with decades of delay. The NAP, which has been with those who favour the forest, those who defend and respect it, will support this government initiative. We remember that 85% of the Portuguese forest belongs to private people and is currently being abandoned. It is desirable that forced rent should not be necessary nor should it be under discussion. in an ideal scenario, each owner would diligently treat his or her heritage, especially when it comes to natural heritage that receives biodiversity with relevance of interest, even community in some places, the benefits of which everyone benefits and the concern of many can harm. Unfortunately, reality is different and shows us that there is not always such a zealous treatment, so it seems to us particularly obvious that it is necessary to provide the State with mechanisms to replace the owner. Thus, the proposal made by the Government appears to us to be balanced and weighted between the various values in comparison. For a building to be in a condition for forced lease it is necessary that, within the time limit laid down in the legal regime applicable to the conversion of the landscape, certain conditions should arise, as soon as the owner or other holders of real rights on the building concerned or those exercising legal representation powers inform that they do not intend to carry out by themselves the actions provided for in the IPGO for that building; or that the owner or other holders of real rights on the building concerned inform that they do not intend to adhere to the management model approved by delegation of the management powers of their building; or that they do not intend to carry out, on a voluntary basis, the interventions provided for in the AIGP ( integrated landscape management areas). We are following the concerns already expressed here today, in particular those we have just heard from the PSD, both as regards the necessary adjustments in the IMI under regulation, or as regards the contractual issues that may arise here, calling on the Government to make a clear adjustment and that in some way the interests of the owners should not be left behind. But we can't stop talking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have illusions: our territory needs to be protected. Our forest cannot continue to burn and we cannot continue to look at this as an inevitability. Year after year, we continue to see a loss of biodiversity and natural heritage that does not in fact contribute to combating not only the preservation of this heritage but also to promote, positively, forest as an ally in the fight against climate change. What is required is that this legislative step should not serve private interests, but rather contribute to the recovery and protection of the forest and biodiversity it receives. If there is something we can do, if there is an opportunity to achieve it, we must seize it without hesitation, without, however, undermining the interests of the private. Despite following this initiative, we call on the Government to place all these interests under regulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u75	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know in Portugal, territorial management and, above all, forest management suffers from chronic problems. That is why the solution of these problems needs stability rather than constant changes in regimes — in fact, I would not only talk about changes in regimes, I would even talk about changes in guardianship, and what has not been achieved is stability. The solution proposed today, that of forced lease, is absolutely a limiting solution and must have a very strong interest on the other hand, which is to safeguard the safety and life of the people. A solution of these can only be applied or weighted after all other options have been exhausted and, above all, all other positive incentives for owners to fulfil their obligations. However, in many cases there is no such positive incentive for the State to fulfil its basic obligation to clear its own land.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u78	Therefore, we will be consolidating a regime that forces the owners to rent the land that is theirs - absolutely disproportionate in these conditions. More: I would like to draw attention to the seriousness of what we are discussing today and that is the proposal to force people to rent their lands for tens of years. What the Government is proposing here is a proposal for a legislative authorisation law without a single opinion. You are asking these 230 Members to pass a blank check for the government to force people to rent their land without presenting a single opinion, a single hearing! Mr. Secretary of State, what you are proposing here is absolutely unacceptable! What you're proposing here is a serious thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u80	Therefore, at the very least, what is required is the demonstration of the heavy interest on the other side, exhausted all the other options, and a weighting that Parliament has to do, so we cannot pass a blank check to the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u81	Mr Pedro do Carmo, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Today we discuss the Bill No 47 / XIV / 1. the, which aims to authorize the Government to create a new lease scheme for rustic buildings. The promotion of the increase of the forest area managed in an active and appropriate manner, as well as the conversion and density of the existing area to species more adapted to the territory, with a view to resilience to the risks, including fire, are fundamental objectives for the reorganisation of forests and for the adaptation of the territory to climate change. It is in this framework that the Government has decided to establish the Landscape Transformation Programme which provides for territorial management tools for the reorganization of the landscape and the delimitation of Integrated Landscape Management Areas for interventions supported in fire-affected areas, which cannot be protected over time, in a perspective of valuing and sustainable development of the most vulnerable rural territories and improving the quality of life of those who inhabit them or enjoy them. A set of instruments is thus established to support rural owners in the transformation of their land, in order to derive economic benefits from their exploitation and maintenance with active management, contributing to the consolidation of a simultaneously humanized and more resilient landscape to the risk of fire. In order to ensure the perfect implementation of the operations defined for the Integrated Landscape Management Areas, in situations where the owners do not manifest the intention, I repeat, in situations where the owners do not manifest the intention to perform the required conversion operations, it is necessary to provide the State with mechanisms to replace the owner for this purpose. Thus, the Government proposes a legal regime for forced lease only applicable in the defined areas for landscape management in vulnerable territories and in fires with areas exceeding 500 ha, which are the object of Integrated Landscape Management Operation. Finally, but not least, with regard to the duty to transpose the content of the Special Plans for the Planning of the Territory into the inter-municipal or municipal master plan, and in other inter-municipal or municipal plans applicable to the area covered by the special plans, it is done, as proposed by municipalities, through the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, to extend the deadline for its compliance and that is what we are dealing with here today. If, on the one hand, even before the COVID-19 pandemic, it was already evident that the procedure for the transposition of the rules of the special plans for the municipal plans had proved to be more complex and more complex than initially equated, with the depolet of the pandemic, and despite the suspension of the deadline, as we all know, there were municipalities that failed to comply and that were unable to continue with the ongoing procedures and procedures. Today, what is needed is to create conditions to complete this work in such a way that this interruption results in beneficial consequences for municipalities and citizens. Is this the last solution? We have no doubt of that. We can't stay forever waiting for a perfect solution that never comes. There's nothing we can do. We can't keep doing anything. It is up to the state to do when all the others have done nothing. It's not about you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, to push a solution for others but to take the solution when no one has solved the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u83	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had never seen Mr. Pedro do Carmo so excited about this kind of agrarian reform disguised as a legislative proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u86	...as I saw today and even surprised me to be as much in favour of a proposal as this one. Let us go to the facts, Mr President: the fact is that, behind wanting to solve the problems of forest and abandonment, this regime becomes blatantly unconstitutional when it provides for a kind of forced lease in which it is said that those who do not adhere to the management model — and the words are: to the management model — can be forced to rent. to the management model, my God...! Is that what you're talking about? It is not the one who has abandoned land that does not adhere to the management model! This is blatantly unconstitutional! Worse, it is said that those who cannot be notified are also forced to rent. Is this Venezuela or is it Cuba transvested anyway? Oh, my God! Who can not be notified: forced lease! Who does not adhere to the management model: forced lease! Dr. Mário Soares must be feeling something strange in this socialist revolution, which is this enthusiasm for agrarian reform that is blatantly contrary to the rights of private property, the rights of owners...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u87	I would like to draw your attention to time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u88	...and the spirit of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u89	Long live the Constitution!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u90	This regime, even if approved in this House, will clash with the Constitutional Court, because in no civilized country in the world can be forced to rent when it cannot be notified or when it does not adhere to a management model. I'm not the one who says it, you're here on this proposal. Look with your eyes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u91	Mr. Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discussed in the Assembly of the Republic a bill that enables forced lease in areas where plans for the transformation of the landscape will be implemented. Thus, forest producers and farmers who have properties located in the areas identified for intervention will have their leased land at prices that are still unknown, if the owners are not interested in carrying out the planned actions or simply if they do not agree with the expected management models. The Left Block considers that the Government is giving a bad sign to populations living and working in high fire risk territories, as well as to small farmers and forest owners. It gives a bad sign to the country that yearns for consistent measures, which prevent the disasters that have occurred in recent years as a result of the fires. This proposal complements the legal regime for the conversion of the landscape, which has not been discussed in this House and which the Left Block has already requested parliamentary consideration so that this can happen. There has yet to be clarification of many doubts raised about the implementation of these plans for the transformation of the landscape and its legal regime. No applicable training measures are known for local populations, agricultural and forestry owners, baldium managers or authorities, which will be affected by this process. The visas were not trained to participate in the design and implementation of the landscape transformation measures. No measures are known to strongly promote collective forest management, although this is the only way to ensure the management of the areas to be intervened through forest management units and management entities of ZIF ( forest intervention areas). The landscape transformation plans are the way announced by the government to implement a policy for the remuneration of ecosystem services, but they are not yet known what services these areas need to guarantee and how they will be paid. The values to be paid are not known, nor even the valuation methodologies used. The definition of the areas of intervention covered by the landscape transformation plans is also quite doubtful, because they are defined according to the danger of fire, but if we consider the criteria followed by the ICNF, the forest spaces without maps of fires in the past or with low occurrence of fires, even if they have today a very high fuel load, remain out of measure. In the face of all these indefinitions, inadequacies and lack of information about the implementation and implementation of the plans for the transformation of the landscape, the first measure that the Government submits, and for which it requests permission to the Assembly of the Republic, is that of the forced lease of land. It's a bad principle, it's a bad sign for the country. It is also contradictory to the theoretical bases of public policy tools aimed at the remuneration of ecosystem services, as they seek to overcome the limitations of private property through cooperation between agroforestry owners and between them and local populations. The Government thus decides to initiate the conflict between actors. Instead of training and building confidence in the process, it intends to start with the threat of forced lease. Anyone who does not accept the intentions or accept them but has no time or means to guarantee them immediately will have to rent their land for 25 years. To whom the lands will be handed over and how the populations may be involved in decision-making during that period, it is not known either. [[Protests by PS MP João Azevedo Castro.]] The Government wants a blank check from the Assembly of the Republic. By the Left Block, it won't happen. We will fight for measures to transform the landscape and resilience of the territory and we have concrete proposals, which we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss and vote shortly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u93	For the conclusion of this debate, Mr. Secretary of State João Catarino has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u94	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: Allow me two or three reflections. First of all, the most important and summarizing 90 % of the responses to your interventions is this: what is envisaged in this diploma is that we will only rent in a necessary way — 'forced' is the term that is in the law, so it is the 'forced', but it should be in a 'needed' form — when the State, before that, says 'we have the project here, we have the money here, we will pay for 20 years all the intervention', and even so the owner says 'the land is mine, I do not let it do'. It's only in those circumstances. That is why this solves 90 % of your questions, which are legitimate, but it is only in these circumstances. First, the state must move forward, say that it has the money, that it has the project and that it pays for 20 years. If, however, the owner says « but I do not leave», then the fair value is calculated and the income is paid. No one expropriates, nothing nationalizes. This is what is in the law, this is what we intend. I realized that we all get very outraged by the fires in the summer, but when we need to do something really disruptive, we all shrink!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u95	That's it! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u96	It's not worth it, my friends! Today we have a country in which we have had public investment and we have even had money from the RDP (Rural Development Programme) for the forest. It's true. We just have the problem here and we put the money there. That's what we want to avoid! What we want is to put the money where the problem is. This is the Landscape Transformation Programme, ladies and gentlemen! That's why we're defending him. My friends, with this proposal, have a good opportunity to look at the southern interior pineapple, to look at the vulnerable territories, which have been classified as vulnerable, and to say: « Money is needed there, more public investment is needed, we have to put money there». That is where we want to put the money from the IRR ( Recovery and Resilience Instrument ) — the several hundred million. It is in vulnerable territories, it is not in the whole country, because we have a different country, which needs a different action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is about this different act that you have to be aware of the following: either approve it here, or we continue to distribute the money throughout the country, because the problem is the same in the whole country, and then we have a territory that has had no public support, because we have no courage to give it to you. My dear friends, here have a good opportunity to prove that they are concerned about the fires in Portugal. You have a good chance here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u97	You have to finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u98	Mrs Cecilia Meireles says it is disproportionate. disproportionate are the forest fires and the size of them. That's disproportionate! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] I'm done here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u99	Mr. Secretary of State, you still have 45 seconds. If you want to use them, you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u100	I have already summarized the question, but I add that, with the same recipe, we will have the same result. They have no doubts. We need to be able to have the courage to have different recipes and to do something substantially different. We have a country, a substantial part of the country, my dear friends, who needs... even from the utopian point of view, that forest was completely clean, no one could guarantee that it didn't burn in the same way it burned last week. This is because the occupation of the soil that is there is completely incompatible with climate change, with the orography. In other words, or we are beginning to transform the landscape and land occupation into those territories in a microterritorial way, because we have no money to do so in a national dimension, or, then, we will not do so and we will continue all summers to lament and to think that it is by means and by more means that we will solve the problem. It's not with any more means of combat! It is with more means and with disruptive measures, as we have in this programme. Obviously, we are fully available to work this diploma with you. This is not an acquired and closed data. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] In the field of specialty, we will sit-CL- ourselves next to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, find the best solution. It may not be complete, it may not be closed, but it is actually around here: or we do something different, or, then, it is not worth lamenting us all, after the summer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u101	Mr Secretary of State, allow me a repair that has to do with the language you have used and that I know it has not been proposed. I was grateful that we did not use terms such as « dear friends» or « you». Here, language has its dignity and is the dignity of Parliament and the government itself. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, that it has not been proposed. Mrs. Members, let us now turn to the next item on our agenda, which deals with the discussion of the Bill No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special regime applicable to the expropriation and establishment of administrative services. To submit this proposal, Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and the Planning of the Territory, Mr. João Catarino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u102	Mr. President, I apologize for the language I used. It was because of enthusiasm, no doubt. I'm so sorry. H.E. Mr. President of the House, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Members: The pandemic caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, in addition to being a serious public health emergency, which was necessary to respond to health care, has caused numerous economic and social consequences, which have also demanded and require the government to adopt a wide range of exceptional measures. Beyond the critical stage of the emergency, the Government immediately identified the need to define a framework of interventions to ensure progressive economic and social stabilization, without neglecting the health aspect. In fact, if, at first, the objective was to control the pandemic without killing the economy, it is important, as we have repeatedly reaffirmed, to resume the economy without uncontrolled the pandemic. It was with this focus that the Government approved at the Council of Ministers on June 4th...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a very big background noise. Mr. Secretary of State needs to be heard. I apologize for the interruption, please continue, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u104	As I was saying, it was with this focus that the Government approved at the Council of Ministers on 4 June the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES ), which provides for a set of priority interventions aimed at boosting economic recovery, so it is urgent to turn it from role to practice. Thus, taking into account the relevance and urgency of the implementation of the investments considered and the expected impact of them on the strengthening of the Portuguese economy and finance, the Government identified a set of constraints on the procedures for expropriating and establishing administrative services, the proposal for a law now under discussion is required. This proposal is intended to authorize the Government to create a special system of expropriation and the establishment of administrative services in the context of the implementation of the investments programmed in the PEES, exclusively for the EPES, in the various areas of intervention, which enhances its faster implementation by introducing simplicity and speed in the processing of the procedures to be carried out. This special scheme proposed by the Government is to be able to be declared the public utility, as a matter of urgency, of the expropriations of the buildings necessary to carry out some of the interventions integrated within the framework of the PEES. This statement of public utility, if the proposal of the Government deserves the approval of this Assembly, shall be made by the order of the member of the Government responsible for the sector of activity, where the expropriating entity is the State, an entity integrated into the indirect administration of the State, a public undertaking or a concessionary entity of the State, or by the deliberations of the municipal assembly, where the expropriating entity is a municipality, an intermunicipal entity, a municipalized or intermunicipalized service, an enterprise of the local business sector or a concessionary entity of the municipality. On the other hand, the possibility of setting up public utility restrictions for intervention, integrated into the EES, in the buildings necessary for crossing or occupation by underground conduct or necessary routes of movement, as well as for carrying out geological surveys, surveys and other studies required for carrying out the projects concerned, is always being safeguarded the right of landowners to be compensated for the burdens constituted under the Expropriations Code. This special scheme also provides for the possibility of shortening the time of the administrative possession of the property in an attempt to temporarily shorten the entire expropriation process. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to provide the Government with the means necessary for a more agile and, consequently, more effective action, not neglecting, at any time, the legitimate rights of the owners. We are confident that all decisions must be taken in a cautious and proportionate manner, respecting the rights of individuals and fighting strictly within the perimeter of the interventions defined in the PEES. There are several projects planned under the EES for which the approval of this special scheme is essential. This is an example of two important projects of the responsibility of the government area of the environment and climate action, such as the realization of fuel management ranges, which aims, as you know, to establish, in strategic locations, conditions favourable to the suppression of rural fires, a theme of the greatest importance and priority for our country. As I have already had the opportunity to expose you, the structure of our property, with regard to the forests in particular, puts us a set of difficulties in the interventions and management of these spaces, which must be met. With the provision of funds planned for the implementation and maintenance of this structural network, we plan to achieve the objective of 2500 ha / year. But the achievement of these objectives depends not only on the financial component that the Government undertakes to ensure, but also, essentially, on more agile procedures of action. In addition to the fuel management ranges, I also highlight the projects to be developed by the Waters of Portugal group, with hundreds of kilometers of pipelines to be installed, many in rural areas, for which this regime is most necessary, as it will follow up a set of interventions to increase resilience and improve the quality of service of water supply and sanitation systems. I can therefore appeal to your commitment to this proposal by the Government, which guarantees the ability to carry out small works, of rapid execution and disseminated by the territory, which can absorb any of the impact of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic. The adoption of this proposal will be a decisive step towards accelerating the implementation of many investments that we can and want to make within the framework of the PEES, but which, in view of its short-term horizon, without exceptional measures, can hardly be achieved by respecting the timings provided for in the Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u105	Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government intends a legislative authorization to establish a special scheme for expropriation and the establishment of services for the investments to be carried out under the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. It says that it is for, and I quote, « to introduce simplicity and speed in the processing of procedures ». In fact, it simplifies, and how! Eliminates the stage of the attempt to acquire through private law; eliminates the notification of the declaration of public utility; eliminates the notification of authorisation of the administrative possession; eliminates the right to the contradiction of the ex-propriate; eliminates the period of validity of an authorised diploma, despite the nature of the exception of its legal regime. In fact, the process is also very fast: it considers, automatically and by useful effect of the law, of public utility and with urgency the expropriations; it carries out the declaration of public utility, with the approval of a plant of the site or with a map identifying the areas; it confers on the expropriating entity the immediate administrative possession of the goods, I repeat, immediately, with the publication of that declaration. The same is said of administrative services, which, in order to achieve them, will only be sufficient to identify the width and length of the service range of the properties to be paid. I confess that more looks like a gonçalvista drift. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] But this is certainly an ideological misunderstanding, because the Prec (Revolutionary Process in Course) belongs to History. It was 1975. Between ideological prejudice and so much legislative azáfama, the Government has only escaped a small detail, which was to conform this authorization and this regime with the principles of the rule of law and the Constitution. It is so easy, so easy, that it is really difficult to approve this legislative authorization. In the light of this request for legislative authorization, this House should respond with a legislative ban order. This diploma had only one concern: the State's interest in the declaration of public utility and in the urgent nature of expropriations, neglecting and seriously sacrificing the interests of the expropriants, which may offend the right to private property, as reflected in Article 62. the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u107	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u108	On the other hand, as is consensual in the present case-law, the constitutional protection of property is not incompatible with the compression of that right, provided that these restrictions are proportional in relation to the realization of a purpose of public utility, which, in particular, may also affect the principle of proportionality, as set out in Article 18 (2). the Constitution. This special scheme excludes the acquisition of goods by private law and prevents the expropriate from exercising the contradiction, so the almost unilateral decision to expropriate can only be challenged in administrative litigation, which we know in most cases to have serious damage to those concerned, as regards the fair value of the goods. If the declaration of public utility is published only with the approved plant or with the map of the areas and the list of owners, they do not have to measure, nor do they defend themselves from the disproportionateness of the administration decisions, because they remain in ignorance of cause until that time. There is still another strange effect. Only this publication of the declaration of public utility is enough to take place immediately to the administrative possession of the expropriated goods. This unjustified restriction of the right to private property is not understood, nor the manifestly disproportionate form which the Government intends to make the notion of public interest prevail. Expropriating or constituting services is already an exceptional and urgent act, regulated in the Expropriations Code. Therefore, it is not understood that the Government intends to create a regime which establishes an exception to the exception of expropriation and gives priority to the urgency of taking possession, even above the margin of Article 2. that of the Expropriations Code, because it does not respect the rights of the expropriate, nor observe the principles of legality, justice, proportionality, impartiality and good faith. There is neither merit nor the goodness of purpose nor the implementation of the PEES,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u109	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u110	...but in a rule of law, it cannot be worth everything, especially when the protection of the trust of citizens is at stake. I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that the PSD is not one, not two, but three times against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u111	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u112	The PSD is against this kind of confiscation, against this dangerous arbitrariness, against this denial of the rule of law! I am sorry for the common position, but it is a diploma without PEES - we read the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme — not the head. Instead of a state of contingency, you, with this authorization, if granted, may put the country in place. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u113	There's a Vasco Gonçalves in every corner!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u114	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Here's another tempting proposal. We already knew that parties such as the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block are horrifying private property, but we learned that this Socialist Party Government also has zero consideration for private property. It is absolutely unbelievable that this clearly unconstitutional law denying respect for private property and the principle of proportionality can be passed in this Parliament! It is absolutely unacceptable that even if it is to pass a law that makes expropriations within the framework of the PEES in a completely discretionary act, which makes the declaration of public utility in a completely arbitrary act, without need of justification, and which ignores the expropriate ones, who are neither held nor found in the expropriation process, making the table of their right to dispose of the goods. We are directly against this proposal and we call on everyone in this Chamber to show consideration and respect due to the Portuguese and their constitutional rights, leading to this proposal. The purposes do not justify the means and the dubious purposes, as is the case, much less.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u116	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to say that it was important for us to have discussions here. Mr. Secretary of State said: "We are absolutely available to discuss the previous project with Mr. Ladies and gentlemen.' No, he's not! What Mr. Secretary of State and the Government have chosen to present here, either at the previous point or at this point, are proposals for an authorization law, i.e. proposals in which or put the stamp and the thing goes as it is or we vote against. That's right! This is precisely the instrument that the Government chooses when it is not available to discuss with Members and for the speciality of the bill to be made in Parliament and not through an authorized decree. Let this be clear! What the Secretary of State here proposes is the opposite of what he said five minutes ago, from a strictly legal point of view. This is not even a political opinion, but from a strictly legal point of view it is so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u118	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u119	from a political point of view, what we have proposed with this bill is much more shocking than what we have proposed in the previous one. With regard to the previous one, I understand the public interest and understand that what is on the table is the issue of forest fires. What comes here, although it seems to me that the final intention until it can be this, is far more broad than that. What you are proposing here is an expropriation regime that applies to everything and anything that has to do with the PEES. I explain with the following sentence of the proposed law: « The expropriations of the buildings and inherent rights necessary for the construction, extension, rehabilitation or benefit of equipment, networks and infrastructures in the context of the implementation of the investments to be carried out in the framework of the interventions referred to in the preceding Article », which refers to the ESDP. Therefore, whatever the State is expropriating economic and social stabilization programme. How? It can happen — the Advocates' Order is clear on this — that the owner will know when the administrative possession is already made. Mr. Secretary of State, this is completely disproportionate! It can apply to any small work of proximity, to anything in reality. from our point of view, it is completely unconstitutional and I see no form of this bill to be passed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u120	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u121	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Looking at the urgent need to address the numerous economic and social effects caused by the serious public health crisis in which we are living, marked by the many days of confinement to which a large part of the Portuguese population had to be subjected, the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme was approved. This programme provides for a set of exceptional and priority measures for the dynamisation of the economy, necessary for the progressive resumption of social and economic life, in particular by quoting the PEES itself, the « launch of a large set of small works, rapid execution and disseminated by the territory, which can absorb any of the impact of the economic crisis caused by the pandemic ». over the past few months, it has been clear that what citizens expect from the government is that they make swift, effective decisions and legitimize the appropriate and urgent responses in order to address and combat this new collective problem. You're here, ladies. Members, the Government has put into practice a wide range of solutions to give shape to the measures provided for in the PEES. We are discussing here today a proposal for a law, tabled by the Government, which aims at precisely this, i.e. to speed up some provisions to establish a special regime for the implementation of procedures for expropriating and establishing administrative services, given the urgency in the implementation of the investments programmed under the PEES, simplifying its procedures and facilitating its speedy implementation. The figure of expropriation consists of an administrative procedure, superimposed on the right of private property and the rights inherent in it a cause of public utility, understood in the tasks, purposes or object of the entity that expropriates and, of course, payment of fair and fair compensation. It is for expropriating entities to pursue the public interest, in respect of the rights and interests legally protected by the expropriate, always taking into account the principles of legality, justice, equality, proportionality, impartiality and good faith. Although the right to private property is constitutionally protected, it is not an absolute right, there are cases, as recommended in Article 62 (2). that of the Constitution—it has already been invoked here today— in which this right can be removed. These are the basic principles of the expropriation regime. What the Government proposes to us in this bill, as has already been evidenced here by the Secretary of State, is no more than to include in the mechanism of urgent expropriation already provided for in Article 15. that of the Expropriations Code, the expropriations of the buildings and inherent rights necessary for the construction, expansion, rehabilitation or benefit of equipment, networks and structures within the framework of the interventions provided for in the ESP ; simplify the declaration of utility ; accelerate the implementation of the administrative possession, who knows this reality knows that it may take years; also ensure fair compensation in accordance with the provisions of the Expropriations Code; enable the crossing of private buildings with underground conduct, necessary roads, infrastructures, networks and others; and enable the establishment of administrative services. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at difficult and exceptional times, exceptional measures must be taken. Portugal would neither understand nor forgive if we could not take a step further, if we did not create unique mechanisms and, in this case, temporary ones that allow us to support the transformative projects we need. the State must not only ensure defence, justice, public order, markets or private law. the state is required to promote development, innovation, science; it is required to be the defender, the guarantor of the public interest. We live in a country capable, with capable people — able to enhance synergies, able to take advantage of existing resources, able to reverse what is least good for us, capable of regaining our economic vitality. In recent months, there has been a collective learning at various levels. We are all aware that today, more than yesterday, the State's responses, in order to meet its objective, must be rapid, effective and sometimes surgical. The consequence of a slow intervention or a non-intervention in the expropriation procedures, within the scope of this bill, would be a step back in the process of economic and social recovery in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u123	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative authorization has as its aim — already mentioned here — to speed up the conditions for public investment under the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme for very concrete objectives and works, such as removal of asbestos, interventions on water and rail networks, urban rehabilitation, expansion of the social equipment network, accessibility of people with disabilities, all of this. I want to say what I think is essential for us right now: it is not because of the lack of agility that these public investments are no longer being realized. It is imperative, now more than ever, that the money, instead of going to the New Bank, go where it has to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u125	At the New Bank already he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u126	Right, money has to go for investments of this kind. Now, as expected, the voices of the custom, which come to say that private property is sacrosanct and that don't even think about beliscá, because any contraction or restriction to private property is the ongoing Sovietization or, then, the gonçalvista derivative of which Mr. Cancela Moura spoke recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u127	And it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u128	Of course, agility must have limits — of course! — that we have to be careful to prevent this from coming back to private entities involved in these works — of course! — but those who rise up to criticize or be against the agileisation of public investment have never said a word against the agileisation of the public rescue of private banks. This is called « true ideological prejudice». "Over all private property weighs a social mortgage" — the phrase is not mine, it is from someone whose right-hand benches usually quote with fervor and respect. I believe that this social mortgage or it is now being realized, in this very concrete context, or then it will never be realized. Therefore, we are in favour of this legislative authorisation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u129	The next item is Mr António Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, called the PEES, lends itself to some exchanges. In fact, Mr José Cancela Moura recently referred to him saying that he had neither feet nor heads. from our point of view, this is not the case, although we also think that, particularly in times of exceptionality, we should not legislate with the feet of diplomas that touch sensitive matters. That's not the case either. We do not subscribe to the tremendous interventions that were made by the parties on the right, which, in fact, as a matter of fact, invoked the Constitution. A Member of Parliament, who is not here now, has invoked the Constitution, but he usually states to the four winds his opposition to it, because he considers it somewhat familiar, that is to say, he does not want this Republic, this Constitution and he defends another republic, perhaps a republic of bananas. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It's moving to see the right defending constitutional values. Let's hope you do it on other occasions too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u132	In fact, we are dealing with a matter that has to do with expropriation for public utility and, indeed, what we saw by the parties on the right was to challenge the possibility of expropriation for public utility. This is a figure that is regulated in the Constitution and in the law, and well regulated, including the rights of owners, that is, no one is expropriated without being entitled to fair compensation. What we are dealing with here is to speed up processes taking into account the exceptionality of the moment we are going through. from our point of view, there must be some care, because there may be a tendency for exceptionality to justify everything. Therefore, as we are dealing with restrictions to a right, the right of ownership, which does not have the nature of fundamental rights, as is sometimes invoked and as it even refers to in the opinion of the Advocates' Order, which we do not subscribe to, some things must be guarded. As regards the opinions sent to us in this legislative process, as I have just said, we do not subscribe to the considerations contained in the opinion of the Advocates' Order, because it seems to us that this opinion, which has led to the latest consequences, contests the very existence of the possibility of expropriation by public utility. The opinions of the National Association of Municipalities and the Higher Council of Magistracy already contain some aspects which must be considered, in particular the fact that there is no temporary scope for the implementation of this diploma, which can in fact cause problems. If it is true that at the moment we do not know what the evolution of the pandemic we are going through and that there is some unpredictability, we cannot assume that the exceptional regimes created under the pandemic response should be eternal. Therefore, it would be advantageous to have a temporary delimitation of the application of the diploma, even though it would obviously be prorogable, as is the case with other exceptional regimes, but which, in spite of all, have a limited period of validity. In fact, there is no such limited period of validity here, it does not seem to us to be positive, but it seems to us that, within the scope of the authorisation, it is possible to clarify this point in the authorized decree without questioning the meaning and extent of the continued authorization of this bill. The National Association of Municipalities draws attention to some aspects that may cause interpretative difficulties regarding the competence of municipal assemblies, when it is considered that the deliberations of the municipal assembly is sufficient for the declaration of public utility. There are formalities provided for in the Expropriations Code which are not fully understood whether or not they can be pre-established due to this exceptional regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u133	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not dispute the foundations of this bill, but we believe that, in spite of everything, there are some aspects that should be clarified in the lawful decree so that difficulties do not arise, which the Government will certainly not want. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u135	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor again to close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for Conservation of Nature, Forests and the Planning of the Territory, João Catarino.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying to Mr António Filipe that we agree with the need for a diploma of this kind to have, indeed, a temporal scope and it is our intention, if this diploma is to be approved, that it obviously has a temporal scope. In view of the fact that the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme is a programme with a very limited time frame and with a set of investments and a significant financial envelope, it is important that we achieve this set of significant works during this time period. Knowing that litigation, in the context of public procurement competitions, is becoming more and more common today, let us say this, it is important for us to be able to implement these works quickly. We are talking about works such as fuel interruption strips, which can, in a kilometre, have hundreds of owners and which, in other circumstances, would be extremely difficult to implement. In addition, what is at stake here is to consider urgent expropriation, it is not to change the Expropriation Code. It is considered that all works within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme are urgently needed in the context of expropriations and administrative services. That's all, that's all, and that's why we're asking you for this legislative authorization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u137	Having concluded this item on our agenda, we move on to the fifth point, which consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. You have the floor to present the bill, the Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mário Belo Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to a serious public health emergency, which was necessary to respond to the health plan, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a very serious impact on economic and social order. This is a crisis that affects the state, companies, workers and creditors cross-sectionally, this in virtually all sectors of activity. at this time, it is not yet possible to evaluate all the implications and proportions of this reality. But it is true that the necessary imposition of restrictive health rules has resulted in the interruption of a wide range of activities, creating for economic operators a situation of financial constraints and a lack of liquidity, which in many cases prevents the punctual fulfilment of the obligations that have been met. We must all fight this crisis with the greatest determination. For this reason, a wide range of exceptional measures have been adopted either by the Assembly of the Republic or by the Government. It is in this context that the bill that we present here today is inserted. Concrete measures adopted by the Government, within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, the proposal is based on three essential axes. First, provide judicial instruments for the recovery of mechanisms that allow them to be adapted to the economic context caused by the pandemic. Secondly, the creation of a new pre-insolvent recovery instrument, the ENP (extraordinary business feasibility process) and at the same time to ensure consistency between business restructuring mechanisms, the extension of the scope of the extrajudicial business recovery regime, the RERE, to insolvency situations resulting from the pandemic. Third, the injection of liquidity into the economy. Thus, in relation to the adaptation of the PER(special revitalization process) and the PEAP(special payment process ), the judge is entitled to grant an additional period for the conclusion of the negotiations initiated with a view to the approval of a recovery plan or payment agreement adapted to the context of the COVID-19. Insolvency also introduces the possibility that the tenderer may be granted a time limit for adapting the insolvency plan to the same crisis context. Specifically with regard to ENP, this is a temporary mechanism of an extraordinary nature intended solely for companies in difficult economic situations or in insolvency situations, provided that two requirements are met: that this is the result of the economic crisis caused by COVID-19 and that the company is still susceptible to viability, therefore requiring, with reference to 31 December 2019, an asset greater than the liability. This process aims at the judicial approval of a feasibility agreement between the company and its creditors, and presents a distinctive trait: a particularly rapid process. In fact, it has an urgent priority on congeneral processes. The procedural deadlines were shortened and the claim phase was deleted and replaced by the submission of a relationship of creditors that may be challenged by the interested parties. It is also worth highlighting that the failure to adopt the feasibility agreement does not imply the company's declaration of insolvency. It is a bet on the viability of companies which will allow the use of the process without fear of a declaration of insolvency. The ENP also prevents the establishment of any actions for the recovery of debts against the company and suspends the ongoing actions, in particular insolvency proceedings that may be pending. The termination of the feasibility process also prevents the company from resorting to it again and, without prejudice to the general principle of the intangibility of tax credits and social security, the possibility of reducing the interest rate of late payment is envisaged. Finally, in all outstanding insolvency proceedings, it is proposed that partial instalments be made compulsory, provided that the liquidation product is equal to or greater than €10 000 and its ownership is not disputed. It is considered that priority is given in the processing of claims for release of securities or other guarantees provided in insolvency or recovery proceedings. It is therefore intended that the State, which has important sums of money in its custody in these processes, should release them in the shortest possible time, distributing them by creditors and thus injecting such necessary liquidity into the economy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members alone, the measures we have tabled here will not have the virtuality to put an end to the economic crisis that is felt in Portugal and, in general, around the world. But we are convinced that it will be important contributions to the success of the country's pressing economic recovery, a mission that all — state, citizens and businesses — have in our hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u139	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Due to the economic impacts caused by the health crisis we are experiencing and the abrupt interruption of chains for the first time in history, the world will have a global public debt greater than the value of GDP (gross domestic product ). This scenario, according to the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), requires that emergency and business support measures be accelerated to avoid an unprecedented number of failures, even if there are those who speak of a true tsunami of bankruptcy. Portugal, unfortunately, will not remain outside this tsunami, which is partly due to the fact that, in recent years, the country has put all the chips in a short-term economic profit model, without value or without adding more value to the country and without a medium-term vision and social and environmental sustainability. In the right time, we were alerted to this and they didn't want to listen to us. The health crisis has only accelerated the realization of the dangers for which the NAP has already been alerting. Thus, and in spite of the efforts that Parliament and the Government have made to ensure the survival of companies, the fact is that when the end of some support that is in force, in particular the successor of the layoff, several companies will be in insolvency, so it is expected that the insolvency tsunami will occur in Portugal in the first quarter of 2021 and there will be a very large number of insolvency proceedings to enter the Portuguese courts. A scenario, in fact, which is scary, but for which answers and solutions are urgently needed. It is precisely in order to begin to prepare and reduce these negative effects that we believe then that this proposal will arise, seeking to ensure that the deadline for the conclusion of negotiations for the adoption of a recovery plan, partial reduction of interest rates and tax credits and social security, or the creation of an extraordinary process of business viability, is extended. These measures are appropriate to the current situation and will, of course, count on the agreement of the NAP. However, it was possible to try to go further. And that was the exercise we have sought over the past few months, in particular by creating greater benefits in terms of tax credits and social security for companies that have environmentally and socially sustainable practices or by suspending the deadline for legal submission to insolvency so that already insolvent companies will benefit from new financial support. It will also be important not to forget that the protection of companies cannot be taken into account of the deprotection of creditors and therefore solutions such as the reduction of deadlines for claims should be well thought of their consequences, as a matter of specialty, in order not to cause this undesirable effect. Finally, we must call on the Government to ensure that Directive 2019 / 1023 is transposed as soon as possible, which can give great impetus to the adoption of new mechanisms for preventive reorganization of companies that were being well managed and solvents, which, more than maintaining business activity, will ensure the protection of jobs and the preservation of know-how. Because of the importance that this directive has in the current context of economic crisis, its transposition cannot be postponed to much more, as often happens with regard to the transposition of directives. We will follow this initiative, but we cannot go through without leaving these concerns which will certainly mobilize us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u141	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : The Government brings this proposal here and, when we talk about insolvency and business, there is a worrying fact— Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union with the highest rate of insolvency at business level, which reveals the government's lack of support for measures for businesses and our business fabric. The Government has created an instrument, a new instrument which will involve a period of adaptation, a period of training and what was wanted was a quick response, a quick response, precisely to the companies in difficulty. And we ask: But did the government create an instrument when there were already tools to respond to support companies? There are four instruments and the government will now create another one. There is the RERE, the PER, the PEAP, the insolvency plan and now we have another instrument that overlaps all others. This Government proposal envisages what is a prior negotiation and agreement with 50 % of creditors. This is a barrier to most of our business fabric and to our small and medium-sized enterprises. To reach an agreement of 50 % or more of creditors only has one beneficiary: solve the problem to the bank, to the financial system, but leave out of business and many of its creditors. And, therefore, what we suggest — and we will do - in the field of expertise – is that we can reactivate PER 2012. It is not the current one, it is not the PER full of limitations, with access difficulties, etc. Don't! PER 2012, which has also been created in a difficult economic context of the country, is a known response, services already know how it works, companies too and is a quick tool that allows and will enable many companies to be saved. We realize that there may be some resistance, for example, to the adoption of this PER 2012, not the PER 2016. And who can put those resistances? It may be precisely the banking institutions, the financial system. Why? Because this affects the capital ratios of the banks, since it obliges them to make forecasts. That's true! But on the business side, on the creditors' side, for those who really need support, this is, of course, a fundamental instrument. It must also be agileized — and we will propose — the negotiation with government authorities at the level of tax authority and social security, so that these creditors can act on one voice, so that there are no two voices, so that there are no more entropies, so that there are no more difficulties. I end this by saying the following: either we comply with the insolvencys, which are a reality and it seems that the government has to some extent been in conformity with this, or we take effective measures to support and respond rapidly to companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u143	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u144	So, and in conclusion, I would say that what the government is presenting does not damage, but does not solve it either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u145	Mrs Joana Sá Pereira, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is in times of greater uncertainty in our lives that we should expect to be guided by concrete answers and immediate actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u147	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u148	And that's what we've come to see. The first response to this crisis has, of course, put its focus on the health issue, but never, ever, has left aside the question of support for businesses, jobs and workers. The path we have made is of many doubts, we know, but it is also important to highlight some certainty. Without a capable and robust economic and social response, we would be witnessing — as in the past — an irreversible and mass destruction of jobs and the productive capacity of our companies. One of the greatest challenges facing this crisis is even the protection of employment and businesses. And, therefore, we highlight the various mechanisms for supporting the business fabric, both in terms of liquidity and in terms of capitalization, which have been implemented since the beginning of this crisis. We really need the oxygen balloon of our companies to continue with the economic recovery path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u149	The problem is, there's no balloon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u150	in this context, it is essential to implement the extraordinary process of viability of companies that we are discussing today and that is, in fact, the stabilization programme. After the important reform that the Capitalisation Programme has brought to insolvency and company recovery processes, we must now address a very specific problem: what to do to viable companies in a difficult economic or insolvency situation, because of the pandemic, and who had more assets than liabilities at the end of 2019? To create a mechanism of an extraordinary nature, procedurally more agile and priority character, in the face of other urgent processes and that responds to this concern. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is much more ambitious, since it expressly provides for the possibility of reducing the interest rate of late tax credits and social security; provides for the extension of the deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations, with a view to the approval of the recovery plan or the payment agreement for companies currently in insolvency; provides for the possibility of access to the extraordinary judicial system for the recovery of undertakings for those in current insolvency motivated only and only by the pandemic, allowing the restructuring of their debt; provides for the temporary prohibition of the suspension of public services essential to enterprises, such as water, light and telecommunications; provides for the priority of the release of guarantees and guarantees that are in the custody of the State, important in order to allow liquidity to be injected into our companies; provides for the temporary prohibition of partial instalments in outstanding insolvency proceedings, early release of the amounts obtained to creditors. To simplify, speed up, save — essentially, this bill allows the restructuring of debts to companies, a necessary condition, we believe, to face, with even more positive prospects, this phase of mitigating the economic and social effects of the crisis we are going through. It is essential and absolutely necessary to contain, on the one hand, the foreseeable collapse of insolvency, harmful to our economy, but also creating entropies in our courts, and, on the other hand, simplifying access to recovery mechanisms. That is what we find in this proposal. We really need to save jobs to overcome this crisis, protect businesses, defend workers and guarantee jobs. Faced with adversity, concrete answers and immediate actions. This is the position of the Socialist Party responsible for combating the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD welcomes the legislative initiative of the Government which aims to create a temporary and extraordinary mechanism intended exclusively for companies in difficulty, as a result of the pandemic, but which are still viable. On the other hand, we understand that this is a balanced mechanism, because it has the virtue of simultaneously helping creditors to collect their credits. And, therefore, instead of having an insolvency in sight and creditors desperate for lack of the debtor's estate to collect his credits, we can have here a saving table, so let's say, either to the company that is in difficulty, or to its creditors. However, we are faced with a document that needs to be improved at various levels and, without prejudice to the discussion in the specialty, we already highlight the main ones. Of course, if the Government wants to help the company in difficulty, it must consider whether or not it feels free to pay the rate of justice in this special scheme, as well as suggests the Advocates' Order. Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State, this bill is not accompanied by what we consider to be mandatory, which are the opinions of the various entities that should be heard in this area — the Order of Lawyers, the Order of Appeals and Implementing Agents, the Higher Council of Magistracy, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry and the professionals who are on the ground every day in these matters, which are those of the Portuguese Association of Judicial Administrators. As a mechanism that presupposes agreement with creditors, no deadline for other creditors to claim claims for reasons of speed, it is also important to avoid opening doors for manoeuvres of exclusion or favouring creditors to the detriment of others. Therefore, it is advisable to assess whether the debtor should or should not call at the negotiating table all creditors, if it is worth seeing the contested or even revoked agreement, if it proves that it has benefited each other to the detriment of others. On the other hand, given the urgency, it does not seem reasonable — this under the other measures — to fix 30 days for creditors to say whether they adhere to the benefit payment plan or not. Thirty days is all less urgent. As it reverses the urgency which is also intended for insolvencys to set the deadline for adapting the proposal by up to 15 days. Why useful days, Mr. Secretary of State, when the Civil Procedure Code and the Insolvency Code refer to days that are not useful? Thereafter, the appointment of the provisional judicial administrator should be made by drawing lots, accompanying the current trend of recent times and not by indication of the company. In the past, in this area and in the context of executive action, bad examples of such indications and there are mistakes that cannot be repeated. Justice cannot serve to leverage businesses that leave its professionals in obvious imbalance and much less serve as traders. Then, again, if we want a speedy trial, the appeal for the higher court cannot function as a form of delay, so to maintain the suspensive effect, as we think it should be maintained, the diploma should clarify, from the very same standard, that this mechanism is also urgent in the higher courts in order not to have the problems that we often have with the precautionary procedures. Everyone, including the courts, will be aware of the urgency and priority of this extrajudicial regime. Therefore, we will not agree with payments that are not safe for all parties. And here we question whether or not partial instalments and partial payments should occur after the credit rating sentence has been given. With full availability for the discussion in the specialty, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not cease to be critical in the name of the legal certainty that is required. Politically, Mr Secretary of State, this bill deserves our approval. Legally, it will necessarily have to be improved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u153	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u154	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This is a particularly important debate because we are facing a moment of economic and social crisis with the marked increase in corporate debt. In fact, since March, April, the Left Block has been fighting for proposals to support the economy that protect employment and help, have been proved, the maintenance of companies themselves and, therefore, jobs. And since early on, we have warned that moratoriums or more credits have only increased the difficulties experienced by companies. in this diploma, the government intends to create a mechanism which, in fact, will look very much for a mechanism we all know, the PER, so we would like to point out some matters related to it that seem very relevant to this discussion. At the time it was created, and despite the announcements that it would be a mechanism to protect workers in difficult situations in companies, PER ended up becoming a legal instrument created by the government of the troika in 2012 with several weaknesses for which this parliamentary group has been alerting. It is not new that, from the outset, the PER has been the target of several criticisms, both of individuals and of entrepreneurs and workers of companies involved in the process. The complaints not only to the parliamentary groups, but also to the government, certainly, ended up setting the PER not as an oxygen balloon for companies, but above all as a way of dissipating wealth or obtaining debt losses, by diluting the payment of claims in small benefits to be settled in long-term terms, which has had dramatic consequences for creditors, particularly for workers. There are cases where plans are approved with the creditor's favourable vote, which is also a firm of the company's owner's family in PER, and which determine the reduction of 50% of the employee's debt, therefore wages and compensation. Trade union organisations have also expressed concern about the long-term effects of the implementation of this mechanism. For this reason we have also requested in 2017 the evaluation report, which is quite significant in terms of the use of PER as a form of fraud on the part of companies, leaving the workers, this part of the creditors, in a complicated situation. Why do we bring these notes to the debate? Because it seems to us that this mechanism which is being proposed by the government right now, by going to drink a lot to the construction of PER, can only raise many doubts about its future applicability, in the same way as the other mechanism which has had such negative consequences for workers. at a time of crisis such as the one we live with and with what we learn from previous crises, insisting on this kind of mechanisms may not be the best way to deal with the crisis that companies and workers face. Therefore, more than that, with different clothes, may have negative consequences. It will be more useful to intervene in order to strengthen workers' protection mechanisms in the context of the negotiation of revitalization plans. There are some opinions on this bill which, for example, indicate that creditors, again the part of the workers, may continue to be unprotected with this new mechanism, with the renegotiation of deadlines. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to say that it would be time, indeed, to move forward with measures to protect employment, but also to support businesses. We know that existing support has been difficult to reach businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, which have had the greatest difficulty and which we believe will continue to be unprotected by this new mechanism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u155	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u156	For example, it would be time to put the IAPMEI (Agence for Competitiveness and Innovation) at the service of the economy and create early warning mechanisms for firms in difficulty, so that they do not have to reach this point. That is why, and finally, we consider, Mr Secretary of State, that this proposal for a law is a sin for insisting on this mechanism which has in the past proved very harmful and which raises many doubts. We will, of course, be as always available for the debate, but we have serious doubts about the use of such a mechanism as another which has been so damaging over the past few years. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u157	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u158	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The fundamental question that this bill poses to us is its extremely limited character in view of the scale of the economic difficulties facing Portuguese companies and, in particular, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the overwhelming majority of Portuguese economic fabric. From 2009 to 2015, Portuguese micro, small and medium-sized enterprises were subject to absolute economic strangulation. Traditionally, these companies have always lived with difficulties, taking into account the economic confrontation they have with larger companies, particularly in the area of trade, with large areas. But the years between 2009 and 2015 were absolutely catastrophic for these companies, given the situation of recession and austerity to which they were subjected, to which the country was subjected, which obviously had consequences on the economic health of these companies. Well, we had a few years of some recovery that allowed these companies to survive, but always at the threshold of their survival capacity. And when we arrived in 2020, the situation was not as bad as it was in previous years, but it was not yet a good one. The emergence of this pandemic, which forced many companies to close the forced closure, for reasons we all know, has led many companies to an absolutely catastrophic situation from the point of view of their survival. What happens is that the expenditure under the programmes provided for in respect of the applicability of this bill, companies in insolvency proceedings or in special revitalization processes are a small margin of Portuguese companies. Therefore, we can say that this bill, to be approved, in its application, will have a marginal effect, at best, not to say virtually null and void, on the situation of the business fabric of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in our country. The report, already mentioned above, of the Order of Advocates, which was given to the House in the context of this legislative process, also draws attention to this and even suggests a number of concrete measures that should be taken, so that even this legislative initiative could be taken to that end. But what we think is crucial is that the responses found in the field of justice, in insolvency proceedings, are extremely limited in view of the extent of the difficulties these companies are facing—I mean the situation of family companies, particularly in the restoration, which have been long-term closed and which still cannot work in the full capacity of their own, and I am referring to other small family businesses, which are in an extremely distressing situation—and it is not with initiatives with this scope that the problem can be tackled. What is required is that there be a national effort to support the Portuguese economic fabric, to support the survival of thousands of small businesses that have their continuity absolutely compromised, because, even in a framework where they can already operate, they are faced with a recessive environment that obviously seriously impairs their recovery capacity. Much more effective and effective measures are therefore needed to support these companies. That is why we can say that, with this bill, being approved, there is nothing wrong with the country, but, in fact, much more needs to be done and action with a far greater scope than is proposed here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u159	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal that the Government brings to us has two dimensions, one policy and one legal one. The political proposal is clear: it is about extending the deadline for the business recovery regime, which we must recognise has merit, that of the ban on the suspension of essential services, such as water, light, etc. This is something that should have been done in companies in these situations for a long time. But it was not beyond, how it could have gone, for example, in the exemption of the rates of justice, as noted by the Advocates' Order. We could have done much more in this area, especially for companies that are experiencing the asphyxiation of the crisis in their skin. And not only: for example, when it comes to the recovery of credits, we should not have weakened the position of creditors, because they may also become firms in difficulty in the current context of the pandemic. This is a major mistake that this proposal makes: it reduces the time limit for claims from creditors and can make them, in the very short term, also in firms in difficulty. And why not the interest in living? Why have we not been able to play at a point where the whole country was talking about, the total pardon of the interest in living in these companies, which often do not have the conditions to pay for water and light? This is a step we could have taken and not give.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u161	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u162	I'm done now, Mr. President. I agree with Mr António Filipe: it does not go wrong to the world if this rule is adopted, but we are far from what we should be left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u163	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u164	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The Liberal Initiative defends, and will always defend, measures that can reduce bureaucracy and make life easier for people and businesses, which, should be remembered on the far left, are created by people and where people work with the same rights and duties as any of us, and are not second citizens. Even para-minister Costa Silva acknowledges that it is the companies and not the state that produces the wealth on which you will collect the taxes that you so much like to collect. We will therefore support this proposal that agitates the mechanisms for the recovery of enterprises. In the Liberal Initiative, if it is to prevent the closure of firms in difficult economic situations due to the pandemic, we are in favour; if it is to help the treasury of companies, distributing more quickly to creditors the bankrupt mass that plants to the guard of insolvency courts, we are in favour; if it is to reduce interest rates in the performance plans, we are in favour. It is unfortunate that it took a pandemic to take these measures, which they sin for being temporary and for not going further. If we even want to have a faster and more solid economic recovery, we will have to drop taxes on a permanent basis, reduce penalties for non-compliance, forgive interest on a full basis and exempt companies from the rate of justice. Let us hope that the PS and the government will perceive this in time before the State budget for 2021 and the arrival of the European fund bazouca, which will otherwise fall into a broken bag.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u165	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this debate. To that end, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr. Mário Belo Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have listened more carefully to all the thoughts and concerns expressed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who spoke about the bill we tabled today. In the course of the legislative process and the entire constructive dialogue that is inherent to it, it will certainly be possible to accommodate contributions and suggestions, in line with what usually happens in this House which is the seat of our democracy. I leave this House with a strengthened conviction. The international public health emergency caused by the COVID-19 determined the paralysis of a large set of economic activities, creating for companies a financial constraint based on the lack of liquidity, which has prevented the punctual fulfilment of many already overdue obligations. The situation we live in is characterized by a sharp breakdown of production and consumption and, consequently, by a contraction of the normal flows and dynamics of the economic system. But fortunately, the productive capacity of the Portuguese economy is still largely preserved, so we believe that, within a short period of time, we can return to a certain and desirable normality. The extraordinary process of business viability and other proposed measures precisely incorporate a whole set of measures that will largely contribute to overcoming the crisis situation and boosting economic recovery. This set of measures is certainly a contribution, but it does not exhaust everything that the Government is developing in this area and, in this context, I draw particular attention to a fundamental axis of the economic recovery that is required, which is precisely the recovery and resilience plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u167	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the sixth item on our agenda are, without time for debate, the Annual Report of the Supervisory Board of DNA Profiles Database on the year 2019. So we move on to the next point, that of the legislative votes, since, as I said recently, there was and there is a quorum of deliberation. Unfortunately, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a number of motions for a vote, some of which have been tabled by the Par. I ask Mrs. Secretary Mrs. Helga Correia to read the Draft Vote No. 312 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN, CH, Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and PCP ) — To regret the death of Fernanda Lapa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last August 6th, Fernanda Lapa, at 77 years of age. Born in Lisbon, in 1943, Maria Fernanda Mamede de Padua Lapa began her journey at the Teatro dos Alunos Universitarios de Lisboa, in 1962, as a student of the Instituto Superior de Servicio Social de Lisboa. The following year, with Fernando Amado, he founded the House of the Comedy, where he also debuted as a stagemaker in 1972. Deepening studies in Warsaw, Breslavia and Krakow, he developed, from 1979 (as a scholarship of the Secretary of State of Culture ), a long journey in the pedagogical areas of the Theatre and Cinema, passing through the Chapel, the Higher School of Music and Arts of the Show, the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon and the Higher School of Theatre and Cinema of the Polytechnic Institute of Lisbon, which culminates in 2012, the year in which he ceased his functions as invited Professor and Director of the Cénic Arts Department of the University of Évora. Multifaceted actress (from opera to theatre and theatre-dance, from Jean Cocteau to Arthur Miller), a stager, dramatist, the theatre was her passion and her life—despite many relevant participations in television and cinema, in which she collaborated with Fernando Vendrell or Margarida Gil. In addition to his surrender and dedication to the arts, Fernanda Lapa's legacy is, above all, his enormous contribution to affirming the role of women in Portuguese society and to the deconstruction of the stereotyped and idealized image of women in the Theatre. Until his voice was heard, almost no text of female authorship was represented and few were the stagers in activity, having Fernanda Lapa was fundamental to the affirmation and valorization of women in the arts in Portugal. To this end, it was fundamental to the School of Women — Office of Theatre, a project that founded with Isabel Medina in 1995, designed to favour the female creation in the theatre, of which she was Artistic Director. Militant of the PCP since 1978, he was the leader of the Trade Union of Spectacle Workers- STE during several mandates as well as the Democratic Movement of Women, having devoted much of his life to the struggle of workers, the defense of culture, the cause of freedom and democracy. Since 2019, Fernanda Lapa coordinated the National Commemorations of the Centenary of Bernardo Santareno ( 1920 - 2020 ), of whom he was a student, an initiative to which the Assembly of the Republic has joined since the first hour. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Fernanda Lapa, one of the most well-known and dear figures of the Portuguese public, addressing to his family and friends the most sympathetic condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u169	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] I now ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the Voting Project No. 313 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN, CH, and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of Nikias Skapinakis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last August 26, he died in Lisbon at the age of 89, Nikias Skapinakis, one of the most inventive and restless figures of the Portuguese artistic panorama. Son of Portuguese mother and Greek father, Nikias Ribeiro Skapinakis was born in Lisbon in 1931. Self-taught in visual arts, Nikias Skapinakis entered the School of Fine Arts in Lisbon to study Architecture, which soon left to dedicate himself to painting, activity that remained until his disappearance. from the generation of Júlio Pomar, Sá Nogueira or Fernando Lanhas, Nikias Skapinakis was one of the greatest names of Portuguese painting of the second half of the 20th century, with a work characterized by the contrasting universe of colorful shapes, from men and women to the many landscapes that he portrayed during his long career — going through the most varied techniques, from painting to oil to lithography. Anti-fascist since youth, Nikias Skapinakis militated in the MUD Youth, having been a candidate of the Democratic Opposition in the elections to the National Assembly in 1957 and 1961. Also in 1961, he participated in the elaboration of the « Programme for the Democratization of the Republic », in representation of Seara Nova, a common programme of opposition prepared under the inspiration of Jaime Cortesão and Mário de Azevedo Gomes. He said in an interview that his political, legal and subversive activity at the time lent him a motivation that influenced his ability to resist the environment he was facing. Resisting through its most important weapon, painting, was arrested in Aljube in 1962. As I had previously stated, in a manifesto written in 1958, ‘ (...) a painter fights when painting. ’ of it are the illustrations of When the Lobos Uivam, the masterful work of Aquilino Ribeiro ( 1958 ) censored by the regime, for alerting how intensive forest exploitation came to threaten the rurality of the country and to destroy existing cultural forms for decades. Represented in numerous public and private collections in Portugal and abroad, Nikias' work includes painting Landscape — Portuguese flag, allusive to the national flag and integrated in the Commemorations of the Centennial of the Republic ( 2010 ), exhibited in Parliament. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Nikias Skapinakis, addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u171	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 314 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Antonio Taborda, which will be read by Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last August 31st, António Monteiro de Almeida Taborda. Born 1934, in Gavião, Portalegre district, António Taborda was a prominent figure in the opposition to the previous regime, with active participation in particular in the election campaign of General Humberto Delgado, in 1958, and later in the academic crisis of Coimbra. After 25 April, Antonio Taborda was appointed to the Assembly of the Republic in II, III and IV Legislatures, elected by the CDE / CDE, by the electoral circle of the Port. As a lawyer, he distinguished himself as a defender of political prisoners during the New State and, in the post-25 April, the victims of the terrorist attacks of the far right in the north of the country, in the trial of the process known as the ‘Bombist Network’. Unrested spirit, deeply humanist, that allied a genuine good disposition and affability, António Taborda was also a man of culture, having been part of the TEUC, academic theater of Coimbra. In April 2019 he was decorated with the Order of Freedom, on a proposal from the former President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Taborda, recalling the unbreakable fighter for democracy and freedom and addressing to his family and friends the most sorry condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u173	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. We shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 315 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Vicente Jorge Silva. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Vicente Jorge Silva died last September 8, at the age of 74. A man of various passions, however, was in journalism that Vicente Jorge Silva stood out before and after 25 April, having played an important role in the renewal of the Portuguese press. Born in Funchal, on November 8, 1945, Vicente Jorge Silva revealed a spirit of insubmissiveness and protest, having been forced to leave high school because of problems with PIDE, and to continue his studies on the continent. On his return to Madeira, in 1966, Vicente Jorge Silva began his career as a journalist in the Funchal Trade, which led and transformed into a national reference and into a space of freedom against existing parishism, which led to the newspaper being suspended for a few months in 1968. After 25 April, Vicente Jorge Silva was editor-in-chief and assistant director of the Express, and created and directed the Journal, reserved for the culture and international panorama, which emerged from the dominant grayism in the Portuguese press. His most personal project was undoubtedly the Public Journal, a milestone of innovation in the national press in the early 90s of the last century, that he was co-founder and first director, and to which he will be forever associated. Written by young journalists, with innovative graphics, and using the best practices of international journalism, the Public also became a reference newspaper. After leaving the Public, Vicente Jorge Silva devoted himself to cinema, his first passion, without, however, abandoning journalism, having been a columnist in the Economic Diário, the Diário de Noticias and the Sun, returning years later to the ‘ public’. He was also a commenter of the SIC. Left-wing Democratic, as it was considered, Vicente Jorge Silva had a brief incursion into political-party activity, when he was elected in 2002 to the Assembly of the Republic by the circle of Lisbon ( IX Legislation ), on the list of the Socialist Party. Visionary, rigorous and demanding, revolutionary in dictatorship and democracy, Vicente Jorge Silva marked a generation in journalism in Portugal and leaves the country a remarkable legacy, either as regards the work done, or as an example of concern and freedom of expression and thought, which it is necessary to recognize. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Vicente Jorge Silva, addressing his family and friends with the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u175	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. We shall vote in favour of this draft vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 306 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PSD, PS and CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Maria Eduarda Azevedo, to whom I associate as President of the Assembly of the Republic, expressing directly to the family and friends who are present in the gallery, my condolences and the sadness with which I was left for the death of our former Member. Mrs Helga Correia will do her part in reading the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last September 1st, a victim of prolonged illness, Professor Maria Eduarda Azevedo. He gave his best to education, public policy and PSD. Graduated in Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, graduated in High Studies of Community Law from the Faculty of Law of the University of Coimbra and Master in Law, she became Associate Professor of Law of the University of Lusida in 2014 where she served as Director and served as a member of the Scientific and Pedagogic Councils. She was also Professor with Adregation in the Law branch at the University of New Lisbon, in 2016. As regards the exercise of political functions, he was Secretary of State for Justice in the XII Constitutional Government, from 1991 to 1995, and Deputy to the Assembly of the Republic for 10 years, between 1995 and 2005, by the electoral circles of Lisbon and Braga. In the representation of the Assembly of the Republic, he was also a member of the Convention on Fundamental Rights of the European Union ( 1999 - 2000 ) and a member of the Convention on the Future of Europe ( 2002 - 2003 ). In 2016, Vogal was elected to the Supreme Council of the Magistracy by the Assembly of the Republic, which held office until 2019. In the political-party context, he was Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party ( 1999 - 2002 ), Director of the Free People's Journal ( 1998 - 2002 ), President of the Council of Jurisdiction of the Lisbon District of the PSD ( 1996 - 1998 ), and President of the Bureau of the Assembly of the Algerian Section of the PSD ( 1993 - 1995 ). Professor Maria Eduarda Azevedo performed various technical and research functions and was the author of several books and articles on European Construction and legal and economic issues in the fields of Public Finance, Taxation and Regulation. In 1998 she was thanked with the Great Cross of the Child Order, granted by His Excellency the President of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decides to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Professor Maria Eduarda Azevedo and to present her condolences to her family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u177	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we have the Vote Project No. 308 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PSD, BE, PCP, PS, PS, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death in service of firefighter Pedro Daniel Ferreira, to which the President of the Assembly of the Republic also associates. Mrs. Secretary will do her best to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u178	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 7 September, during operations to combat a rural fire in the town of Antelas, in the municipality of Oliveira de Frades, firefighter Pedro Daniel Ferreira died of 38 years. Pedro Daniel Ferreira, professional fireman of the Corps of Volunteers of Oliveira de Frades who joined the Team of Permanent Intervention (EIP ), ended up losing his life tragically in fulfilling his mission. The death of another Peace Soldier leaves us deeply dismayed, even for another year when the fire has unfortunately already taken us four other Portuguese firemen. We regret that the large number of fires that traditionally occur in our country, during the summer period, continues to victimize our firefighters, who courageously risk their lives daily for the benefit of our community. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Pedro Daniel Ferreira and expresses its condolences and the deepest feeling of respect and solidarity, at this difficult moment, to his relatives, friends, colleagues of profession and the Corps of Friars of Olivets of Frades. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u179	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I would ask Vice-President Fernando Negrão to continue to conduct the proceedings, following up on the votes. [[At the moment, Vice-President Fernando Negrão was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u180	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 602 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Spain. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Full accounting of the time of service of careers and special bodies of the Public Administration. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government correct the mechanisms for career progression of the armed forces, maritime police and Republican National Guard professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u181	Mr President, I just wanted to give an indication that the arrival will deliver a statement of vote on these last two drafts which have been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government submit and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the National Strategy for Combating Corruption 2020 - 2024. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on draft resolution No 546 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Effective protection of complainants. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE and abstentions from the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on draft resolution No 561 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a social tariff for access to Internet services. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Special social support programme for former COFACO workers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u183	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u184	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will pass to Bill No. 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ). Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u185	Mr. President, the Commission has been required to apply for this bill and for the subsequent PCP bill. I believe that they can be voted on together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u186	Mr President, we had only that indication regarding the second draft law. Therefore, we will vote on the requests submitted by the authors of the initiatives, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing for a 15-day vote of Bill No. 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme of protection to tenants by 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for IHRU financial support by 31 December 2020. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and specialized support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 499 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the exercise of the conversion rights by the State of credits in capital of the New Bank to its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the PAN, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, CDS-PP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 75 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a family support network and promote study and debate for a family and birth policy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u187	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u188	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 77 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u189	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u190	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u191	Mr President, it is to announce that we will send a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u192	We shall vote on draft resolution No 59 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — An integrated policy for children and the family. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u193	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u194	Mrs Bebiana Cunha, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u195	Mr President, it is to announce that, on this vote too, we will send a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u196	We shall vote on draft resolution No 255 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border and integrated measures to support and encourage birth. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u197	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u198	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u199	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the draft resolution previously voted on, we will send a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u200	We shall now vote for an application submitted by the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u201	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u202	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u203	Mr President, it is to say that I also made a request concerning Bill No. 494 / XIV / 1. a, and I suggest a joint vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u204	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u205	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u206	Mr President, I would also like to make a request for Bill No 501 / XIV / 1. it has the same treatment as the previous ones, i.e. it goes down to the committee, without a vote, for 60 days. I believe that we can vote on the three demands together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u207	If there is no opposition, we shall vote together on the requests submitted by the NAP, the Member of Parliament who has not registered Cristina Rodrigues and BE, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without voting for 60 days of the Bills No. 476 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates a special unit of salvation and animal rescue, making the third amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 01 April, 494 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 27 / 2006 of 3 July and Decree-Law No. 45 / 2019 of 1 April, establishing the special animal relief team, and 501 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Preparation of civil protection for animal rescue, rescue and rescue ( third amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July, third amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2006 of 25 July, third amendment to Law No 65 / 2007 of 12 November, second amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April, and second amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 580 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP ) — Training, within the framework of civil protection, to save and rescue animals in the event of a disaster. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 450 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Presentation of the report of the ICNF to the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor and strengthen compliance with the national goal of reducing the area of eucalyptus in the forest area. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 493 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes the monitoring committee for the monitoring, prevention and control of the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus and the exotic woody invaders and determines the development of a plan to control the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and action for the surveillance and control of the exotic woody invaders. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 500 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a public network of farmers for the multiplication of native species, recovery of burned areas and transformation of the landscape. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 521 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends support to the Government to remove trees burned by the 2017 fires, to start spontaneous growth eucalyptus and to (re) forest with endogenous species. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall, in general, vote on the proposal for a Law No 55 / XIV / 1 in the speciality and in the overall final vote. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the prevention and investigation of railway accidents by partially transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2016 / 798. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u208	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u209	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u210	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but it was just to announce that we are going to present a vote statement on the vote we just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u211	We shall vote, in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 51 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services by transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2018 / 957. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u212	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u213	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u214	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u215	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u217	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u218	Mr President, it is to indicate that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall, in general, vote in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the legally binding lease regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the PAN were adopted against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall, in general, vote in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a regime applicable to the expropriation and establishment of administrative services. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the abstention of the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall generally vote for Law No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 545 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — The prevention of risks of corruption during the pandemic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 569 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government review the fee table of the services provided by lawyers in the system of access to law and courts. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 578 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Public Campaign for the Disclosure of the Status of the Informal Caregiver. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 426 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government concrete measures to eliminate the digital divide in education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u221	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u222	Mr President, we shall send a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u223	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 445 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government define a strategic plan to ensure digital transition in schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 472 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Action plan for a renewed school. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigueseabstentions of PS, BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 608 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the follow-up of children who first enter preschool or 1. the cycle. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u225	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u226	Mr President, I would like to inform you that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u227	All right, it's registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 265 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the creation of remuneration supplements for the forestry career. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u228	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u229	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u230	Mr President, I believe that at the time I did not give the correct explanation of vote by the Left Block and Mr President did not present it orally, despite both of us. I just wanted it to be washed up until, in the Resolution Project No 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government submit and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the National Strategy for Combating Corruption 2020 - 2024, the Left Block voted in favour. It does not change the vote, but it is to be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u231	But the indication we have is that the Left Block voted in favour, I remember this vote. After the vote, you have the floor of Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some announcements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u232	Mr President, I would simply like to announce that the Bill No 56 / XIV / 2 was introduced into the Bureau. a ( GOV ) and Bill No. 508 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u233	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u234	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u235	Mr President, I am sorry, I just wanted to inform you that I could not register, but I was present in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u236	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we always have the announcement of the names of colleagues who were present by technological means to follow up the work. You then have the word "Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u237	Mr President, I am going to announce that you were present by video conference. PS Members Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara and PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, PS Member Paulo Pisco, elected by the circle of Europe, and PSP Member Paulo Porto, elected by the circle of outside Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-18.u238	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members, I shall then proceed to the reading of the agenda of the next plenary meeting, which will be on 23 September. In the first point, a thematic debate is planned, requested by the Government, on the strategic vision for the Portugal 2020 - 2030 Economic Recovery Plan, under Article 73. the Rules of Procedure. In the second and final point, the preparatory debate of the European Council shall take place, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the process of building the European Union. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good work for the rest of today and a good weekend. Until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 55 minutes.]]
