ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of the authority, please open the gallery doors to the public. Before we get on the agenda, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u2	Mr. President, thank you. Very good day to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. I refer, first, to the Bills No. 223 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 June extending the situation of post-mortem insemination, which falls to 9. the Commission in connection with 1. the Commission ; 224 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensure sickness benefit to 100 % for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 9. a and as 13. a Commission ; 225 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Second amendment to Law No 25 / 2012 of 16 July, which regulates the anticipated directives of will, in particular in the form of a vital will, and the appointment of health care attorney and creates the national register of the vital will ( RENTEV ), which falls to 9. the Commission; 226 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The ninth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election for local authorities bodies, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 227 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June, Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Electoral Campaigns, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity, tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014, General Law on Public Works, which falls to 13. the Commission ; 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity, tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014, General Law on Public Works, which falls to 13. the Commission ; and 230 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Scheme for the protection of natural persons in the face of abusive practices resulting from extrajudicial collection of overdue claims, which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 275 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border measures to combat racism, which fall to 1. the Commission ; 278 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the maintenance of the incorporation of the works of the Rainer Daehnhardt Collection in the National Car Museum, which goes down to 12. the Commission ; 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — A rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 281 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information campaign to disseminate and encourage the registration of the vital will, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 282 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen training in palliative care in Portugal, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 283 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government increase daily in integrated continuous care units of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 284 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government urgently strengthen beds and palliative care teams in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and household services, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 287 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government take measures to improve national air quality, which falls to 11. the Commission; 288 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reduce landfill and closure of all landfills which do not meet the operating requirements, which fall to 11. the Commission ; 289 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour, which falls to 10. the Commission ; 290 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures for the urgent completion of the works of the High School João de Barros ; 291 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens the State's response in the area of palliative care, which falls to 9. the Commission ; 292 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the development and implementation of a national strategy to combat racism, which goes down to 1. the Commission ; 293 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the balance of tax on diesel vehicles, which falls to 5. the Commission ; 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, proceeding with the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May; and 296 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, 300 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which makes the first amendment to the Code of Public Contracts, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, 302 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which makes the first amendment to the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ; and 303 / XIV / 1. a ( PEV) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us then enter the agenda, the first of which is the joint discussion of Bill Nos 183 / XIV / 1 in general. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals and extends protection to vertebrate sensitive animals by amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The fifteenth amendment to the Penal Code is made by revising the penal system applicable to pet animals and 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals. To open the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome in particular the representatives of the animal protection associations we know who have moved here today to attend this session. I would like to begin by saying that the adoption of the law that criminalized pet abuse has undoubtedly represented a civilizational evolution that has long been claimed by civil society and, in particular, by the animal protection movements, thus constituting an important step towards the realization of animal rights. Despite the advances made in animal protection, over five years have passed, in addition to the growing sensitivity of civil society, which is denoted either by the number of animals held by families, or by the number of complaints that reach the criminal police bodies and increase from year to year, in the law currently in force there are gaps that it is important to fill with in order to combat the scourge of abandonment and animal overpopulation subject to ill-treatment in our country. Such gaps have already been clearly identified in the previous legislation, starting with entities such as the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, which recognized the need to fill the gaps that persist in the current drafting of crimes against pet animals, which have hindered the task of the supervisory authorities as well as of the law enforcers in the intervention and application of justice to specific cases of the practice of such crimes. On the other hand, it is not understood why it is legitimate to exclude the scope of protection of cases of violence against animals such as donkeys, cows, horses or foxes. With the initiative that the NAP brings today's debate, we intend to contribute to strengthening the protection of pets, revisiting the existing regime, and extending this area of protection to other animals. This happens, necessarily, by empowering the death of an animal, not only as a result of the ill-treatment, but also by punishing behaviors which reveal special censorability, such as the cruelty or perverseness employed, yet extending the sphere of protection to other animals other than those of company, and by continuing to increase the penalties provided for, which are manifestly minor attention here to the legal good in question. But before some of the ladies and gentlemen. Members have come to say that it makes no sense to increase the penalties for animal abuse, that this would be a manifest disproportion to the other legal goods protected by our Criminal Code, we remember that, as in other manifestations of cruelty or violence, animal protection is not achieved only with awareness. Only with conversation does this not go there, as we heard, still last week, to be defended in this House. If we were to take this principle as a good or effective one, we would not need even a criminal code which enshrined principles for the prevention and reparation of penalties. Now, step back, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the inconsistency of our legal order: today, a crime of ill-treatment committed against a pet is punished only with one year of imprisonment, only being aggravated until 2 years in case of death. However, if someone destroys, in whole or in part, damage, disfigure, or even render non-useable something or other animal, such conduct is already punishable by imprisonment for up to 3 years. And if the animal is of any other kind, there is not even any penalty! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal we bring here seeks to respond to real cases that occur in our country, cases such as that of Boris, who died in a achievement, to hunger, left for abandonment by his holder, even after several months of denunciation, in which the authorities did not act before the obvious state of undernutrition, having their holder been acquitted, cases such as that of the Roxy puppy, who was killed and severely torn apart by the former companion of his holder, in a context of domestic violence, as a form of retaliation, cases as of the ill-treatment to which João Moura's animals were subjected, the Tauromachic knight, who came to leave naked a reality that permeates all our country and to which so many and so many animals are subject, or, even Jade's, a water that, like so many other animals, has not treated a pet, has been kept in absolute unworthy condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u5	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. What country is this that refuses to correct these omissions and allows violence to continue to go unpunished, without a king or a rock, and in which the interests of the installed go hand in hand with the violence perpetrated against animals? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u7	Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD has been one of the main precursors in defending animal rights. In particular, the PSD was one of the main actors in order to achieve the historic framework of criminalising, for the first time, in our legal order, the ill-treatment and abandonment of pets. Moreover, after more than five years since the adoption of that law, there has been a need for an improvement in its application, which concerns the following: the empowerment of the pet killing crime. Even though it has never been in the spirit of the legislator that the death of a pet was beyond the criminal type provided for in the Criminal Code, when it constitutes the most serious conduct, and it has been precisely for this reason that the legislator prevented the deepening of the criminal frame when the ill-treatment resulted in the death of the pet animal, it happens that in fact it is a gap that exists in the current law, which, in addition to raising doubts in the case law, in our view should be overcome. Thus, in order to dispel any interpretative doubts that have occurred in the application of the law, the PSD proposes this legislative initiative, in which it is intended that, where the death of a pet does not exist in veterinary practice or in any other cause of justification, even if caused without inflicting pain, it is expressly included in the criminal type. This amendment also responds to a set of appeals from various entities. Without prejudice to the other draft laws under discussion, I would like to say, firstly, that all vertebrate animals are sensitive, so it does not make sense to use such an expression. Something else is to recognize the existence of different degrees of consciousness, which exists and is scientifically proven. It appears that this distinction is not taken into account, particularly in the draft law of the NAP. Moreover, if on the one hand we all agree that free cruelty and ill-treatment are unacceptable in any species, on the other hand, we must take into account the characteristics and peculiarities of the different species and the reality of the human/ animal relationship in each of them, which is very different, and should not be placed and treated in the same way. In the context of animal rights and the application of criminal law, some realism and weighting are necessary. Let's see: the current extended law to all vertebrates can criminalize the slaughter of chickens and rabbits in family farms, the placement of mice for rodents or moles, unlicensed fishing or with expired licenses, the slaughter of pigs in villages and, including other situations, determining, for example, the impossibility of controlling a rat plague. And the Portuguese who still live in the rural world? What about livestock? What about hunting? We all agree that it is essential to change mentalities and to increase awareness of animal welfare. However, reducing this to a utopian change of law, which will be difficult to implement, will continue without really protecting animals, so if animal welfare legislation can and should be improved, it will have to be in an appropriate way, it will have to be realistic and will never cease to be in accordance with the reality of our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u9	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group represents or resumes some of the issues it had raised in previous legislatures on this subject, precisely recognizing the shortcomings of the criminal law in force. In 2014, a substantial step forward was taken, revised later in 2015, but remained, and remain, as has already been mentioned and identified by several of the relevant judicial operators, questions of doubt in the interpretation of the law, in particular whether the death of a pet should or should not be punished in connection with the crime of ill-treatment of pet animals. It seems to us that the initial understanding of the law was that, but it has not been unanimous in the judicial understanding, and this correction must be made. In our perspective, it is also relevant and useful to carry out some clarification or improvement of wording in cases where there is a worsening result, in which the death of the animal results not directly but as a result of the ill-treatment caused, generating, in this case, aggravation. There is also a need to empower the circumstances in the crime of abandonment, in which the sanction must effectively be differentiated when there is real danger in the life of the animal or when this does not happen, because, in this case, the penalty should therefore be of a smaller scale. In addition, there remains, and has been identified, a difficulty in terms of the concept of pet regarding animals in a state of errance or abandonment. in this respect, and we are aware that further changes and clarification may still be necessary in the field of specialty, we understand that it should be clear that, at least in relation to those species that are classified and identified as pets, and are those that are subject to registration, there seems to be consensus that they should also be covered by the criminal framework in force in situations where they are in a state of error. Therefore, in order for the criminal law to be clear, it is easy to determine what these species of animals are, not precisely to expand the concept that is in force but to ensure that it is particularly clear. We also have some questions concerning attempts and ancillary sanctions, which we think can be harmonised, in the field of expertise, among the various initiatives under consideration. However, it seems to us that, in this debate, and leaving some notes on the other initiatives presented, that we welcome and that are important contributions, firstly, different situations need to be distinguished and, therefore, the law must do this exercise, which is what it does. What the law did was criminalize abuse of pet animals, because it understood that the social consensus was greater here, that it was easier to identify the conduct that should be sanctioned by criminal law and because, in the legal order, there are other penal frameworks applicable to crimes committed against other animal species. Therefore, the idea that there is no penalty framework and that a set of situations would be totally unprotected is not entirely accurate either. Otherwise, we see: Decree-Law No. 64 / 2000 contains sanctions for animal husbandry; Decree-Law No. 72 - F / 2003 for laying hens; Decree-Law No. 79 / 2010 for meat chickens; Decree-Law No. 135 / 2003 for pigs; Decree-Law No. 48 / 2001 for calves; Decree-Law No. 265 / 2007 and Regulation (EC) No. 1 / 2005 for the transport of animals; Decree-Law No. 113 / 2019 for animals for the production of wool; and Regulation (EC) No. 1099 / 2009 for the slaughter of animals. All these diplomas contain sanctioning standards — it is true that they are not criminal — counter-ordinative in relation to certain behaviours on breeding animals that we think are appropriate in relation to the legal order. More: they also provide for financial consequences for Creators who fail to comply with them and who are often even more penalized, if we want to use this expression, than the counter-ordinary rule itself, because they hinder access to Community funding which is often essential. in this sense, we cannot follow the initiatives that expand the concept, because here, paraphrasing Orwell, the animals are not, in fact, all equal. Therefore, the idea that, if they are all equal, they are more equal than others, indeed, has a correct translation in the legal order right now, in view of the social consensus and reality that we have. Finally, one final note to conclude: we do not fully follow the revision of the criminal frameworks, because if it is true that Mrs Inês Real pointed out, perhaps, some inconsistencies in criminal law, in general, as regards legal values in relation to certain protected goods, and if it is true that it points to the fact that, in the crime of harm, we can have a higher frame than in the crime against pet animals, it also seems to us inadequate and unbalanced that the sanction applicable to animal death is the same as a crime of negligence, which is also 3 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u11	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, this is a matter for which there should be weighting in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u13	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola spoke on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2014, a broad and firm step was taken to translate the majority sentiment in society, which required, and demanded, a position of respect for animals. In 2017, we went even further and it was established that all animals have a legal personality, not things. This seems obvious, but it was only registered three years ago. These amendments reflect the majority idea which rejects barbaric acts against animals, and well. In 2016, a new discussion existed, and already there we could have advanced with the needs identified either by associations, or by actors in legal processes, who warned about the difficulty of applying the law of ill-treatment and the inaccuracy of concepts. Now, let us return to them now and to the progress we consider that we are finally prepared to work involve several areas of enlargement of this regime. First, it does not make sense that errant or abandoned animals are not considered in this regime. But in addition, it should be extended to sensitive animals. It is not understood that horses mistreated by Tauromach horsemen are not understood with the same dignity and legislative rigor and research as the chickens who, for example, knight João Moura, mistreated. It is a question of ‘equity’, such as. Secondly: to provoke death is, in itself, violence. The death of an unfounded animal, even in situations where there are no ill-treatment, is in itself an aggressiveness. There are, of course, no permitted purposes — industry, food or other — provided that it is guaranteed, as is obvious, the well-being of these animals. Third: the abused animal cannot remain in the custody of the suspect. These animals can and should be protected. In addition, they are evidence that relates to judicial proceedings, so they cannot be left to the custody of who is the obvious target of the proceedings. Once again, it is clear that this is a measure of pure sense and prevention. The current solution is, as it is said, “let the fox save the hen”. With our solution, the animal can be delivered to the state or animal protection associations for its own protection. Fourth: we extend the system of ancillary penalties by altering the deprivation of the right of holding pets for 10 years; we include the extension of the deprivation of participation in competition or commercial initiatives of any animal; we include the loss to the State of the abused animal, and of other animals, and the frequency of programmes to prevent violence. Fifth: we density the situations of abandonment, including neglect or omission of treatment and care, although there is no de facto abandonment. The abandonment is also defined by the lack of food, drink or satisfaction of other needs, including medical veterinary treatment and their prophylaxis. Until now there was no majority for the obvious changes, but it seems that the time has finally come. It is clear that the social majority exists, it is enough to know whether it has a mirror in this House and whether we are able to respond to what is required of us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u15	The next item is the statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern about the welfare of animals is fair. The PCP shares this concern and considers it fair and appropriate that legal solutions are found to prevent and punish behaviors that result in the imposition of animal abuse. Having said this, what the CFP does not share is the tendency, which some seek to impose, to make Portuguese legislation resonate with conceptions of radical animalism and prohibitionist extremism, which reflect a narrowly urban and sometimes almost childish view of the relationship between humans and the diversity of animal life. Five years ago, this House opted for the criminalization of animal abuse. The CFP considered it more appropriate to adopt an effective and dissuasive counter-ordering regime, but that was not the majority option and that is not what is at present at stake. At the point where we are, it is not to reject legislative improvements which, in particular, remove interpretative doubts or erroneous interpretations of the legislation applicable to death, abandonment or ill-treatment inflicted on animals. We therefore support proposals contained in the PS and PSD projects that can translate into useful legislative improvements. We can no longer say the same of some aspects of the NAP and BE projects that reflect conceptions that we do not share. From the outset, the CFP rejects the idea that everything is resolved by means of criminal hardening and that the solution for everything and any problem goes by presenting and re-submitting proposals which consist more and more of increasing prison sentences and broadening its scope. A criminal system must be balanced. If we give in to the temptations of radical animalism that permeate the NAP and BE projects, we are at risk of ensuring that animal protection is better protected than we guarantee fundamental legal goods for people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u18	It makes no sense to seek to apply the pet protection regime to all animals. Even though among pets there are natural differences of animal behavior that are not even taken into account, it is already the realm of the absurd intended to apply to all animals an identical regime, which ignores the abject differences of nature and habitat that coexist in the animal world and impose natural differences of relationship between animals and humans and the different species.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u20	Does it make any sense for an elder who lives in an inner village and has no access to health care for himself to be threatened with imprisonment for up to 6 months if he does not have the conditions to ensure adequate medical and veterinary care for an animal in charge? Oh, my God! Does it make any sense to threaten someone with a prison sentence to slaughter a chicken raised for self-consumption? Is an action and desratization made for public health reasons a prison sentence? Does it make any sense to fill criminal legislation, which by definition must be precise, of vague and indeterminate concepts, such as "affectation of animal etiology" or "psychological ill-treatment"? The protection of animals, like everything in life, does not dispense with reasonableness and good sense. It cannot be treated as equal what is manifestly different.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u21	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u22	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. The Serra da Malcata is not a balcony on the avenue of Rome. And, as Mário de Carvalho wrote, it is important not to confuse the human race with Manuel Germano. The CFP is available to approve improvements that are useful for the protection of animal welfare, but it does not agree to transform the Portuguese Penal Code into an incoherent repository of unsustainable fundamentalisms—said, Mr President, unsustainable. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u23	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been said in effect, these diplomas — and they are not all the same — have a common point, which is basically a concern that we admit corresponds to a new social sensitivity to combating animal abuse and cruelty against animals. So far, we all agree, so far it's all right. Mentalities change, mentalities evolve and even better this evolution exists. From there, there are actually different projects, as has been said and I agree, and there are projects that are evaporated from a radicalism fund—in fact, we must try to qualify, perhaps it is an animalist radicalism, so to speak—that makes no sense. Of course, it does not make sense because, as has already been explained by more than one parliamentary group, it does an amalgamation and a generalization that has no logic. Clearly, the distinction between conscious and conscious vertebrates does not exist, since all vertebrates will be, but there are very different animals. But when we establish the logic of extending the regime that we have for pets, which makes all the sense, to all kinds of animals, we are dealing with realities as different as those of pets, dogs and cats, rats or rats or other animals, for example, in some cases reptiles. Is it possible, or is it not possible, to fight a scourge of rats, for example, on the basis of that regime, or will people be sentenced? We are obviously putting in the same bag what is the protection of pet animals and what, for example, are livestock farms, particularly animals that are specifically created for slaughter and human consumption. What's it like? You say: « no, that is not, because we create an exception». But that logic is wrong, because the animal that is created for slaughter is not an exception, it is the rule! That's the rule, it's not the exception. In other words, you cannot create a rule, which is that of pets, and then treat all kinds of animals, regardless of their relationship with human beings, as if they were pets. Then, as has been said — and well — this successive increase in criminal structures in animal protection is not the way. The way is to create better conditions. The increase in criminal frameworks leads us to have a very high criminal frame for the abandonment of animals, but they are the same parties that are against the criminalization of the abandonment of the elderly, which is always extraordinary. The abandonment of the elderly you do not want to criminalize, but as far as the abandonment of animals is concerned, it is worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u25	Don't put everything in the same bag! Don't put everything in the same bag!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u26	Mr. André Silva, if you interrupt me I can't finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u27	Don't be nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u28	I would ask you to allow the speaker to express himself and complete his speech, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u29	Mr. André Silva is nervous because I'm in the use of the word and you're interrupting me. So who's nervous is you. I would also like to say that the project of the Left Block has a phrase that, from my point of view, is particularly beautiful: « since it is obviously a supreme form of violence to provoke death». It's a very pretty phrase, but it's a phrase that, unfortunately, the Left Block only applies to animals and does not apply to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u30	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u31	To cause death is indeed a supreme form of violence, but you, who defend euthanasia for animals, already think so. It's regrettable! What we need is to improve the conditions, what we need is to work on this, what we need is to go for European legislation and not adopt animalistic extremisms and radicalisms, like the projects of the Left Block and the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u32	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u33	The other projects are likely to be discussed in the field of expertise, from our point of view. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u34	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is consensual today that ill-treatment and cruelty to animals should be fought and punished. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to know. The first notion is that animalism cannot replace humanism. The law must be adjusted to the reality and everyday life of people, as the Order of Veterinary Physicians says, it must be adapted to the ways in which humans relate to the different animal species. According to some of the proposals made here, going with some friends fishing sardines or using mice in the house garden or raising and killing a pig in a family dinner or a village party would become a crime. There's no notion. We're against it! And they say more, they say it should be a prison crime for 6 months until 3 years. But there's no notion anymore? Three years is the same criminal framework for certain crimes against sexual self-determination or kidnapping. There's no notion. We're against it! Are you going to start opening dozens of exceptions for these cases that I'm going to list? This is not the way it is legislated. As the Order of Veterinary Physicians states, in proposing some of these amendments, it was probably not well thought about the definitions used, the scope they may have, or their applicability in Portugal. There's no idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u36	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u38	Mr Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for one speech. Ms. Mariana Silva (PEV). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The animal protection law determines the general principle of prohibiting all unjustified violence against animals, considering such conscious acts, without the need to inflict death, cruel and prolonged suffering or serious injury on an animal. In turn, Law No. 69 / 2014 amended the Act of 1995, assigning more active rights to animal protection associations in the fight against violence against pet animals and, on the other hand, created a specific title in the Criminal Code on crimes against pet animals. More than five years have passed and it is important, from the perspective of the Greens, that society knows the effects of its application, as well as the difficulties encountered, assessing to what extent the proposed objectives are being met: greater protection of animals, deterring and eradicating acts of violence or abandonment. The way has been traced with some disbelief and even uncertainty. On a proposal from the Greens, the State budget approved the establishment of a working group which will present an evaluation report on the application of this law. Therefore, we consider it time to promote any amendment to the law without an evaluation of the responsible entities, so we cannot vote in favour of the projects that are presented today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u39	All right! Ms. Mariana Silva (PEV). — The projects that were discussed yesterday, about the law on the end of slaughter of healthy animals in official animal collection centres, are proof that we should not constantly change the law based on sporadic experiences, sensational news, without knowing how much justice does and that we do not always have knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we heard the PSD and the CDS expressing regret for having voted on the law of the end of slaughtering healthy animals, regretting, now, aspects of law enforcement and the problems it will give. The defendant soon pointed to those who were the authors of such a necessary change in the law and the construction of a just and balanced law, which needed time, financial support and, above all, awareness of the cause of animal welfare. They were more than 40 years of slaughter of abandoned healthy animals, which did not solve the overpopulation of errant animals, whose reversal in two years has aspects that need to be improved and adapted. We are proud to have contributed to this reversal, even if we already hear the voice of the Old Restelo who, without knowing of experience done, almost demand that the slaughter of abandoned animals be returned. Let us hope that the environment in this House will not be backward, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the respect we have for animals will say a lot about us as a society. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u40	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out and emphasize an approach which, from time to time, escapes us: we are not defending animals because we are human, we are defending animals because we are also animals. I will therefore vote in favour of these legislative initiatives, remembering this: what no human deserves, no animal deserves. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u42	Mr Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Understanding all the doubts raised here regarding various animals, from chickens to rats, among others, I have not heard, however, any approach to abandoned horses in livestock farms, battered foxes and all the ill-treatments that have come to the public and which is necessary for the Assembly of the Republic to respond. If there are already regulations that guarantee counter-ordination, they do not, in fact, guarantee the well-being of these animals. If even animals exist slaughter by compassion, it is not understood that there is also no legislative framework to ensure the well-being of these animals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u44	You have the floor to close this debate, Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the headquarters of this closure, I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that there is a diversity of proposals here, which means that we are at least a little more sensitive to these matters. On the other hand, with regard to some comments, particularly those on the conservative right and those on the CFP, which most appear to have left the last century, we can in fact be surprised that they present doubts but do not present solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u46	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u47	They stand alongside economic interests but are completely alien to that which is animal suffering. Here, we do not talk about legally permitted activities, we talk about what happens daily outside the legislation. They come to defend the rural world. I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is this what the rural world is all about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u48	Don't lie! That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u49	Is it this kind of abuse and abuse, for example, to the equidae? Is that how you want to define the world you want to defend, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u50	Intellectual dishonesty! That's intellectual dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u51	In fact, if we did, we would have a serious anomaly of ethical and humanitarian values in our country! Animal suffering is today unquestionable for science. It is also today the value that humanism should consider. If we, as human beings, who brought the animals to our homes and domesticated the animals, we will, in fact, continue to allow them to be treated badly...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u52	It's a crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u53	It's crime and good! If Mrs. Deputy is beyond suffering, we are not, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u54	No, I'm not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u55	I'm glad we're defending him here. We are not alien to the suffering of people, as we are not alien to the suffering of animals, because one thing does not remove the other. But a society that allows and remains indifferent to animal suffering is a society that in fact has a serious ethical anomaly. Today, we can all take a step forward to correct a late form of justice for animals. If there are disparities in our Criminal Code, which are corrected, so that the injustices are corrected for people who are mistreated and abused, but that does not allow us to close the door to that which is also an ethical and legal consideration that we should have toward those who are in our entire dependence, in their frailty and vulnerability. If that is not the most basic justice, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what it will be, indeed. I end by thanking the animal protection associations that have joined us here today. There is hope, these projects all dictate it and we will not give up, we will not be left here, so that if we take this civilizational step that has long been imposed. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u56	We will enter the second point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion, in general, of Lein.o 42 / XIV / 1 Projects. a (PEV) — Reduction of packaging waste, 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces, 179 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce the number and volume of packaging in commercial products ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) and 208 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. To present the Green Bill, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of urban solid waste, packaging takes a significant weight of total production. in this framework, packaging waste should be given particular attention in terms of its reduction in production, reduction, hazard, reuse, selective collection, recycling and final destination. At all these levels, the goals proposed in the PERSU (Strategic Plan for Urban Solid Wastes) have not been achieved, which shows that there is still intense work to be done in order to ensure better results are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u58	There's a lot of noise in the hall and a lot of Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down or leave. Mrs. Deputy, you can go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, there is still intense work to be done in order to ensure better results that translate a reality of less waste and better treatment. Indeed, if we focus on the component of reducing packaging waste, there are two issues which, in the Greens' perspective, are relevant. One relates to the awareness of the citizens. In the interests of truth, there is no document on sustainable development that does not emphasize the need to prioritize and implement citizens' awareness, information, training and education. However, the governments have shown a drift in relation to this issue in environmental and waste policy, in particular. A second question which we also highlight, on the alternative of consumers, in a waste reduction perspective, is that any citizen who regularly travels to a commercial area has already detected: pay and transports with you, without having requested it, a significant set of packages that have an immediate destination as soon as the products are packed and stored at home — waste! If the product is needed, the consumer cannot, at all, reject the packaging, because he simply cannot obtain the product without its packaging. This is therefore imposed on you. More: on the market it is verifiable that the size of many packagings is often exaggerated in relation to the volume of the packaged products, without this fact being of any relevance in ensuring the quality of the product, which results in a greater quantity and volume of packaging waste. The prohibition of this type of packaging, perfectly indispensable, is the main objective of this bill, in order to contribute to the realization of the principle, undeniably essential, of reducing packaging and packaging waste. The Greens believe that there is here an objective to guarantee the public interest which requires a regulation of the supply that the market makes to the consumer. Why will economic operators not be called upon to make a more significant contribution to reducing packaging because of their offer? Indeed, prior to the accountability of the final waste producer's behavior, there is a work on regulating the market for the sale of goods that is of absolute relevance to the reduction of packaging waste. Less packaging and less packaging waste correspond to lower costs and better environment. The need to "deploy" at a significant dose to our society is an imperative that the Greens take as one of the priorities at the environmental level and which must be taken across the various sectors. There is courage to face the great economic interests, which are the only beneficiaries of this gap.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u60	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have once again discussed proposals in order to reduce packaging to the strictly necessary, avoiding more waste and waste of more resources. If we look at what we commonly consume, for example in the supermarket, we will find two types of reality: products whose packaging is essential for their preservation and transport and products wrapped in bags, bags, envelopes, boxes and more promotional adhesives. That is, if we exclude the first ones, what happens with the packaging is far beyond the fulfilment of its essential role in the preservation of the product, its quality and individualization. This is because the presentation of the products is designed to promote consumerism and marketing options for companies to sell more products, encouraging people to purchase products that do not need or whose packaging is manifestly oversized or oversized. Not only does this antagonize with the preservation of nature, leading to economic, energy and environmental waste, as it still means the transfer of more costs to the consumer. It is that the producer or distributor opts for this type of packaging and charges it to the consumer and it not only pays a package that does not want and does not need, as it still has to pay a corresponding recycling rate — all this nonsense with the sole purpose of maximizing profits. Obviously, we need to stop this insanity and this irrationality. Therefore, what we are proposing today is that rules be laid down for packaging, making them serve exclusively their purpose, minimizing the waste of resources. The rule would be the appropriate presentation of the products to the real needs, with the use of the minimum materials and the minimum number of packagings and the option for reusable packaging and, in specific cases, when required by the nature of the product, appropriate-CL- would be -and strengthen-CL-the packaging. We have, of course, warned about the safety and quality of products. The PCP does not feed a logic of persecution and guilt of each individual due to environmental degradation. In fact, that would not make sense, because systemic problems require systemic solutions. This is an opportunity not to be the people to pay, with more so-called 'green' rates, and indeed to blame those who really gain from the fraud of resources, in the vortex of selling and profit. It's an opportunity to give a clear signal. It is not paying that pollution ceases to harm — the polluter-payer does not solve — it is reducing. It's imposing rules that are settled. Have the courage to move forward in this direction. This is the perfect example of how the capitalist mode of production antagonizes with the preservation of nature. It is not appropriate to people's real needs and sustainability, it is just focused on obtaining higher profit margins, even though this means continuing to exploit raw materials, in addition to human misery, and depositing waste on the planet, even though this means chains of megalomanian trade and distribution to bring a product across the world, which naturally requires more energy and packaging. Capitalism is not green, nor will it ever be! They can count on the CFP to address economic interests, if that means reducing waste. This is an excellent opportunity for all those who say they are concerned about the environment to show which side they are on and which interests speak higher. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u62	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is enough to enter a supermarket to see that there is a problem. We have more packaging, are too large, some are completely useless and many others are of dual material—for example, paper and plastic— which prevents recycling. For this reason, the Left Block brings to this Parliament a solution: a simple bill laying down rules for packaging. We want packaging to have ecological design, adapted to products and their size and easy recycling. We also want packaging for grouped transport between producer, distributor and retailer to be re-usable or, where not possible, recyclable. We believe that packages for forced sale of aggregated products should be prohibited. At present, environmental irrationality reigns. For example, I show this product packed in plastic, chocolates. The speaker displayed a plastic pack of chocolates. We opened this product. What have we got? Surprise: chocolates packed in plastic. This is not market freedom, it is an attack on the climate, it is an attack on the environment, it is an attack on humanity. We also have products that are packed in plastic and repacked in plastic and paper, making recycling difficult. The speaker displayed another plastic package. That is why rules are needed and it is necessary to end the unnecessary packaging. In the face of overpacking, Parliament has a choice to make: either it approves the rules of society on economics, reducing packaging, and thus protecting the planet, natural resources, waste management, our lives, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions; or it decides to do nothing. This is what we have in our hands today. If you decide nothing to do, it is to decide which are the great multinationals that command in the economy, it is to decide that the economy is only useful for profit accumulation. This is not the way that Parliament should take! The market has already shown that it is unable to solve the problem of overpacking. It is time for society to ensure collective interest. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to talk about combating climate change and environmental protection and then, when the decisive moment comes, want everything to be the same. It is not possible to talk about it every day and then when you vote on bills that will solve the problem, you want profits to talk higher than the environment. Don't! This is the time! Let us make use of the collective interest, the common good, the interest of the planet and the protection of the environment! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u64	Very good day to all and to all. To submit Bill No 208 / XIV / 1. a, from the NAP, has the floor Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u65	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The waste sector contributes around 10 % to global warming and is also responsible for the destruction of large ecosystems, land and marine. What to say about waste management in Portugal? The tree is measured by the fruits and the fruits that we have, for the European 2020 targets, are not good: we should have reduced waste production by 10 %, but, on the contrary, we have been increasing its production since 2014; we should have a maximum deposition of biodegradable waste on land in order of 35 %, but we are landing almost half of the waste; and we should be recycling 50 % of the waste, but we cannot exceed 40 %. We have reached 2020 far from the targets we should achieve in reducing waste, landfilling and recycling — and this in a more demanding context of the new European directive, to be transposed by July 2020, which will put us in the further direction of the objectives. In terms of waste, which is governed by the policy of the three Rs — to reduce, reuse and recycling — the first major objective is to reduce production. That is precisely what this NAP initiative is proposing. What the NAP intends, at a first level of action, is that, by promoting the ecodesign of primary packagings and minimizing the use of secondary and tertiary packaging, waste production is reduced. There are certain products on the market that are marketed with several packages, which, having legitimate promotional and commercial objectives, do not serve quality or food safety purposes. And, in these cases, the consumer, when buying them, cannot reject the various packages involving the product. After purchase, at home, these superfluous and useless packagings from the point of view of the preservation or quality of the products are, in seconds, thrown into the trash. They're waste that can be avoided! It is therefore important to work together with industry to ensure its legitimate economic objectives, but also to ensure the environmental sustainability of its activity. We therefore argue that packaging should favour best ecological design practices, giving priority to the use of recyclable materials, monomaterials and reusable materials, with the use of the minimum of resources, without any guarantee of the quality and safety of the packaged product. These are the practices that will allow a reduction in packaging waste. We have also proposed a measure which aims to increase the level of recycling of packaging placed on ecopoints by at least 50 %. We currently have a great difference between what citizens put on the ecopoints and what is really referred to for recycling. In practice, by failing to comply with the so-called 'technical specifications', close to half of the packaging that we all put on ecopoints are considered to be shelter and deposited on ground or incinerated, with very high environmental impact. Therefore, taking into account developments in the recycling industry in the last decade, it is urgent to redefine the technical specifications and thus increase the amount of packages that are effectively recycled and recirculated. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have failed as a country in achieving the objectives of waste policy, we cannot fail, too, in the contribution we can now make. We therefore need to mobilize ourselves, all of us, and approve the legislative initiatives that contribute to the fulfilment of the great plan of the three Rs — to reduce, reuse and recycling. The planet, which is the home of all of us, has to be above commercial interests. Show that today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u66	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This « liberal minute » is dedicated to how it is legislated in Portugal, of which the bills under discussion are a good example. This is how it is legislated in Portugal. Step 1 : to find a worthy cause; Step 2: ensure that you have a popular or populist angle; Step 3 : get an agenda window. And, bumba, there comes a project, like these in relation to which it matters to ask: is there any opinion to follow the projects? Don't! Did anyone think about the breakdown in the value chain of packaging waste? Don't! Has anyone foreseen an adaptation period for the affected sectors? Don't! Has anyone thought about harmonizing rules between sectors and types of secondary and tertiary packaging? Don't! Have they shown any, even minimal, technical basis? Don't! Economic foundation? Don't! No one knows how much it'll cost! Environmental foundation? Don't! No one knows if the final global impact on the environment is positive or negative. Finally, the coup d’état of mercy: did anyone realize that any rules that alter the treatment of materials contained in Directive 2015/1535 must be informed beforehand to the European Union? No one's noticed, either!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u69	I shall conclude, Madam President. For all this, sirs. Members, let these initiatives fall and take advantage of the transposition of the Framework Directives on Single-Use Plastics and Packaging Wastes which have to be transposed by July 2020 to deal with this issue with the seriousness it deserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u70	You have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u71	The environment is grateful, and I, Madam President, also thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u72	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing four initiatives today to promote the reduction of packaging waste. to the four draft laws should be recognized the merit of bringing this matter to debate, because waste management is an integral and fundamental part of environmental policy, which is a priority in environmental policies at EU and national level. I therefore welcome the parliamentary groups of the ENP, the CFP, the Left Block and the NAP. The Socialist Party, through its Parliamentary Group, naturally accompanies initiatives aimed at promoting good environmental practices and environmental protection. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the linear economy model has made the way we all know: a path of growing extraction, of excessive production and consumption, of using and dropping out. A path we have to reverse. in this regard, it is necessary to make profound changes and today we can say that we have a favourable environment to make the change that is required. But if we want a well-functioning economy that, at the same time, responds to the challenge of climate change — a challenge that is imposed on the global scale — then we have to change production and consumption habits, we have to change ways of producing and possessing, we have to bet on a truly circular economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this context, it should be noted that the problem underlying these draft laws is a concern of the Government, expressed in its Programme in the context of measures to improve waste management, which provides to counter the excesses found in the packaging of products and the impossibility of their reuse and recycling, in particular through ecodesign criteria. However, we must not forget that the national strategy for packaging and packaging waste must be aligned with the European strategy. If we want a functioning economy, we must avoid not only market distortions but also that our companies are penalized. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, although the Socialist Party accompanies the concern underlying the initiatives under discussion, it is considered that the adoption of unfair measures, in particular measures of a prohibitive or restrictive nature, which extend the obligations of Portuguese companies vis-à-vis their competitors in the European Union, without the necessary assessment of the impact in economic, technical and environmental terms, is contraindicated and in no way benefits the consistency of the legal system. in this sense, we believe that new legislative developments at European Union level should be expected, taking into account the need to harmonise markets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u74	Mr Paulo Leitão, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is widely recognized that the PSD has a broad historical legacy in the implementation and defence of environmental policies. However, despite our review and follow the merit objectives advocated in the four bills under discussion, with regard to the reduction, reuse and increase of waste recycling capacity from superfluous packagings or with low or no recyclability, we believe that the four projects are based on the principle of the prohibition, moving the government's area vaguely to its regulations. I recall that the ENP and CFP projects had already been rejected by the Assembly of the Republic in previous legislatures, which now do not contain any significant changes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u76	What about the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u77	This prohibition principle is not the way to be in the PSD. We defend the principle of accountability and the principle of recognition. Mrs. Members, none of the projects we are discussing today are based on incentives policies, rewarding good practices, and the introduction of overcosts, in order to penalize agents who do not alter their practices in order to contribute to the country's achievement of environmental goals and objectives. On the other hand, we continue to consider that issues relating to food safety and hygiene, transport safety or the integrity of packaged products are not properly safeguarded, since, according to the proposals submitted, they depend on subsequent regulation. More than doing much, it matters, yes, and much, to do well. The introduction of avulva legislation also runs counter to the recommendations of the European Commission for the waste sector, not promoting the correct articulation and harmonisation of legislation and having a strong likelihood of becoming a barrier to the fulfilment of the targets that Portugal has to achieve. thus, finding important directives in the process of transposition, among which I highlight the directive on packaging and packaging waste, which will have to be transposed by July 2020, the adoption of rough and non-harmonized rules in the different Member States may be counterproductive, adversely affecting the Portuguese market. The PSD therefore considers that the discussion and voting of proposals on this subject should take place after the transposition of the Directives on packaging and packaging waste and single-use plastics, which will enable future legislation to be based on a solid and consistent legislative building that does not harm national companies. Concepts such as the promotion of ecodesign and monomaterial packaging, which will improve the profile of recycling, should preside over the definition of a set of stimuli in the sector, positively differentiating those who adopt the most sustainable solutions and penalizing those who do not adapt to this new reality. Thus, and even though there is a broad consensus in this House on the objectives and targets, as regards the wide range of solutions to be adopted, as well as the time period during which this discussion takes place, they raise serious doubts about the PSD, in particular about the solution and the extemporaneous form as they have been presented, on the eve of the transposition of important Community directives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u78	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have today to appreciate four bills on packaging and packaging waste and also on plastic. The first question is whether national legislation and Community legislation exist and whether or not this legislation goes further. As you know—and the left also know— this matter will go further in a very near time, which is July 2020. In other words, there will be new legislation within four months, European legislation which will be transposed into the Portuguese legal system and which imposes new rules which are in a very positive sense. The fact is, however, that the left decides to break with this consensus. We know that you do not like Europe, but there are matters that must unite us, there are matters that should not disunite us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u80	We vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u81	What will these bills bring to discussion involve? They will involve contradictions, they will involve overlaps, they will generate doubts, they will damage the economy and companies. We live in Portugal, a new era in which there is a species of a championship on the left to see who is more environmentalist or who is more animal friend. But, I repeat, there are things that must unite us, there are things that should not divide us. In the event of approval, these draft laws will pose a problem to our economy: the rules these draft laws want to introduce into products are against the European guidelines and the Community legislation to be introduced in July 2020. So what you want is to create a problem for Portuguese companies, create a problem for Portuguese products, which will not be able to compete on the European market, a market of 500 million consumers. This is actually creating a problem for our economy. We will lose competitiveness, we will export less, we will have a problem with our products, we will create more unemployment, we will necessarily have less social status. It's a mistake! These bills also ignore the work already done by companies. In recent years, companies have adopted new practices, much because of consumer demands, companies have introduced new habits, companies have created and promoted awareness among consumers, and it is also fair to recognise in this debate the reduction in the use of plastics that has been made in the last decade. This is the merit of companies, it is the merit of industry and it is the merit of consumers. However, it is also important to highlight the risks of these bills that relate to hygiene and food safety. It is something that remains outside these bills, but which is covered by the European directive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u82	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u83	I will now finish, Madam President. Therefore, we will have a new directive that goes further, which gives an answer to the climate and environmental emergency and which also meets what is the circular economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u84	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u85	But Europe goes even further and it is good not to forget the European Ecological Pact.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must reject these projects that break the consensus, harm the economy and employment and harm the consumer. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u88	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Packaging waste, indeed, are the result of what we gave the name of development a few years ago. The West was hyperdeveloped, obsessed with hygiene, with a gigantic supply of food and other products. This obviously resulted in unbridled consumerism, with very serious impacts on the environment. And, nowadays, this obsession in the West has resulted in years and years of absolute exploitation and consumerism that is affecting, every day more, every hour more and every minute more, the most disadvantaged areas of our planet. So it is also the responsibility of the West to reverse that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u90	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u91	Mr President, when you hear the interventions of PS, PSD and CDS, which you have joined with the Liberal Initiative, we realize that the « music » is always the same. On the environment, you have huge concerns, your heart is with climate change, but will you then vote in favour? Don't! Do you have your own proposals? Don't! Do you have any solutions? Don't! And then they still extend the speech and say that, after all, the objectives they agreed with at the beginning of their speech are, and I quote, « an injury to companies », « a problem for companies », as is regulated by packaging, as if preventing superfluous packaging, some supreme violence on market freedom. What PS, PSD, CDS and IL tell us here is that market freedom, i.e. the ability of the market to decide about consumers, about the destruction of the planet and natural resources, is, after all, supreme and that the freedom of citizens to protect their lives and the planet—and also, now, to choose the materials—is not taken into account, there is no. This is the same: PS, PSD, CDS and IL, when the time comes for truth, when the time comes to decide, to have rules to protect the planet, are not there, are only with the accumulation of profits, and they consider that society and economy should be subject to the rights of multinationals and not that the economy should be at the service of citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u92	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u93	For our part, we do not accompany you in this «music». [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u94	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many here « fill their mouths» to talk about the environment and spend their lives saying that changes are needed, but in fact, when they have the opportunity to do something, then they apologize to the market, to the directives, to the European Union, to the distortions. So what concludes here is that you do not really want to take action. Does it not make sense, then, that packaging is appropriate to the needs, that we use resources in a manner appropriate to human needs? Is this something so extraordinary? Oh, my God! We don't think so. The draft law that we present here today proposes to guarantee food security, therefore, this argument, mentioned above, does not take up, and once and for all, puts before the economic interests of all people, the whole community and the planet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u96	To close this debate, you have the floor for 2 minutes, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have promoted intense work on reducing packaging waste, where plastic is assumed as a pest that contaminates our seas in a way that, directly affecting ecosystems, also affects humans and other species. Projects such as replacing disposable plastics with other biodegradable materials, or projects such as the prohibition of microplastics in cosmetics and hygiene and cleaning products, or projects such as the prohibition of ultralevous plastic bags in fruit, vegetables or bread sales sections are examples of concrete proposals that The Greens have advanced. Mr. João Cotrim, you have read badly, you have read very badly our bill! The Green Bill provides for a definition of transitional periods to be defined in conjunction with the sector. Look, we didn't even put a date here! We believe that the sector should also help define this transition. « Coitadinho» in this sector! And the profits, which have so far, had us at whose cost? Oh, my God! of the consumer and the environment! The honourable Member says that no one knows how much it will cost. And do you know how much it costs the environment now? Oh, my God! Doesn't that bother you? Oh, my God! The Greens question whether, once and for all, we will contribute to raising awareness and helping the "holy market" to offer more sustainability to citizens, consumers and, therefore, to contribute to a better environment, and if we have the courage and determination to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u98	The general debate on Lein. 42 / XIV / 1 projects was concluded. a (PEV), 12 / XIV / 1 a ( PCP ), 179 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 208 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), we moved on to the discussion of the Draft Resolution No. 179 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedure for the completion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol on Force Labour of the International Labour Organization. To present the draft resolution, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today the Socialist Party presents a draft resolution, which recommends that the Government initiate the procedure for the completion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol on Forced Labour of the International Labour Organization ( ILO ). This Protocol, approved by governments, workers and employers, by a large majority, updates ILO Convention 29 on Forced Labour of 1930 and reaffirms that these practices violate human rights and their dignity and contribute to the perpetuation of cycles of poverty, and also have serious consequences in the world economy. Having returned 80 years, and despite almost universal ratification of the Convention, these violations still remain, although in different ways than those that existed in the early 20th century. Liberalization of trade, globalisation, migration, the terrible situation of refugees, discrimination or social exclusion are true incubators of contemporary forms of forced labour. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These contemporary forms of slavery and human trafficking must irritate us all. But the consistency of these violations draws our attention to the fact that as some forms of forced labor are declining, other new forms of work are emerging. This problem does not exist by chance, it is not solved tomorrow. Therefore, it must be addressed in an integrated and holistic manner, consistent, so that it is possible, definitely, to eradicate it and all practices related to it. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important not to forget that the Socialist Party has always defended work worthy of all. Freedom and equality are values, they are undeniable and inseparable rights of the human condition. There can be no equal opportunity without equal rights. We established the first National Plan against Human Trafficking and it was in a socialist government that Portugal ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Human Trafficking. In 2016, Socialist Members presented a bill to combat modern forms of forced labour which resulted in the adoption and publication of Law No 28 / 2016. This Act introduced important amendments to the Labour Code, in particular as regards the financial responsibility of all temporary workers, but also changes to the legal regime for the promotion of safety and health at work and to the legal regime for the exercise and licensing of private employment agencies and temporary workers. But we have to go on. The International Labour Organization urges States to adopt, implement and implement effective measures through social consultation to prevent and eliminate forced labour and to protect its victims. This is because, despite the primary responsibility in this area to fall on the State, the social partners have a decisive role to play in mobilising workers and employers to achieve this goal. It is necessary to convene all institutions with responsibility in the areas of supervision, to take strict compliance with the law, to defend labour rights in the workplace and to prevent further violations. The importance of this resolution is justified by the unacceptable 21 million people who are forced to work each year. It's 21 million vulnerable, fragile, defenseless people. In terms of gender and age of victims, women and girls are the most affected. The urgency of this resolution is justified by the unacceptable 5 million children under the age of 18 who are subject to these practices every year and justified by the 1400 people still in Portugal who are in a situation of modern slavery, confident that all of us in this House are united by a society that ensures and recognizes rights, which creates equal opportunities for training, qualification and participation, in a society that believes in progress, but in progress that affirms respect for the human condition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by greeting the Socialist Party for having scheduled for discussion the Draft Resolution No. 179 / XIV / 1. a, which recommends that the Government initiate the internal procedure leading to the ratification of the International Labour Organization Protocol. This ILO Convention on Forced or Compulsory Work of 1930 and the 1957 Convention on the Abolition of Forced Labour, almost universally ratified, now integrates the fundamental conventions of the Organization and forms the basis of binding international law in this regard. In June 2014 the ILO Member States adopted a Protocol updating the 1930 Convention, which, referring to contemporary forms of forced labour such as trafficking in human beings, has created new obligations in relation to the protection, prevention, compensation and rehabilitation of victims and reaffirms the need for punishment of perpetrators and to end impunity that still exists in many countries. In fact, according to ILO data, 21 million people are currently forced labour victims and children represent a quarter of the same victims, the most worrying sectors of domestic work, agriculture, construction, manufacturing and entertainment. Forced labour generates at least $150 billion a year for illicit profits around the world today. In relation specifically to trafficking in human beings, this is one of the most serious forms of human rights violations. On its basis, there is organized crime, gender issues, vulnerabilities and fragility of the exploited populations. Estimates point to millions of victims of trafficking in human beings worldwide and are women and children who are more vulnerable to this situation. At present, it has an economic impact comparable to that of arms and drug trafficking. According to data from the United Nations ( UN ), trafficking in human beings generates about EUR 24 billion per year and the number of victims increases to more than 2 million and 400 thousand per year. Portugal is, at the same time, a country of origin, transit and destination of trafficking in human beings. According to data produced by the Human Traffic Observatory, with the exception of 2014, labour trafficking has been the main form of trafficking in human beings signalled and with more victims confirmed by the Portuguese authorities, Portugal being the second country of the European Union with more traffic victims for this purpose. in this sense, recognizing the importance of the initiative brought here, as well as the ratification of the Protocol, we must not forget the need for concrete measures to combat forced labour, including trafficking in human beings, demonstrating the data available the importance of measures to enable effective results to be achieved at the level of intervention, whether in the context of judicial proceedings or, above all, in the protection and assistance to victims. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u102	For an intervention, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discussed in plenary a Protocol of the International Labour Organization, adopted in 2014 and which entered into force in November 2016, that is, four years ago, on forced work, which is the same is to say, the work that is carried out under coercion and involuntary. Portugal's accession to this ILO directive, which has already entered into force for four years, is only late, since it is absolutely necessary to take effective measures to prevent, eliminate, protect and compensate the victims of forced labour, promoting their access to justice, thereby punishing offenders and contributing to the global eradication of this scourge. This is for the simple reason that it is estimated that, by this outside world, there are tens of millions of men, women and children who are victims of this practice of'modern slavery'! And these are, according to ILO, the most vulnerable people in society, such as rural workers, migrants, domestic employees, sailors, women and girls forced to prostitute themselves and others who are also abused and exploited and little or nothing receive for all the work they do. In fact, we are talking, according to data presented in the United Nations in 2018, about 26 000 people, only in Portugal, in this unthinkable scourge, and in the PALOP numbers can reach nearly a million people. And if, in effective numbers, Portugal is the fourth country where this scourge has a higher incidence immediately behind Brazil — but which, percent, has a lower incidence — of Angola and Mozambique, we are, however, in front of countries such as Guinea-Bissau, Equatorial Guinea, Cape Verde or Timor-Leste. ILO estimates that forced labour generates more than $150 billion in illegal profits each year, profits that, in the vast majority, do not pay taxes, do not contribute to national wealth and that only some benefit and harm and restrict large tens of millions of people worldwide. If we think that about a quarter of these modern—or so-called modern—slavery workers in the world are even victims of sexual abuse, which also add to the concerns arising from vulnerability, both from the influence of refugees and from the recent migratory waves, so should we all be more concerned. Under ILO's aegis, this cause unites, worldwide, the leaders of employers' organizations, trade union confederations and also the governments of many tens of countries, so we will be late — four years late — but certainly worth more later than ever. If we join our forces, this is a cause that is worth our effort and that unites us all. For this reason, the PS raised this issue very well, encouraging the Government to accede to the ILO Additional Protocol 2014. The end of forced labor is within our reach, giving life to millions of men and women imprisoned by this modern slavery. And the more governments ratify it and implement it, the closer we will be to eliminate modern slavery in the world, once and for all. We will therefore vote in favour of this international binding of Portugal to the Additional Protocol of 2014 of the ILO. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u104	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u105	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: In recent years it was not only the intensive olive tree that grew exponentially in our country, particularly in the area of Alqueva, it was also the trafficking of human beings, it was the multiplication of containers where these people who do agricultural work stay overnight, it was the forced work that increased in Portugal. In Portugal, there is slave labor. We are talking about Romanian, Moldovan, Bulgarian, Nepalese, Thai, Indian citizens, among so many other nationalities, who are subjected to the most brutal labour exploitation we can imagine, who are victims of extortion, who are deprived of rights, deprived of income, deprived of wages, deprived of remuneration and subject, often, to many forms of violence, including physical violence. They have no papers, they take their documents when they arrive and are subject to everything: working 12 hours a day or more, every day of the week and living in unacceptable conditions. The International Labour Organization Protocol calls on different countries, in their legal frameworks and in their action, in their public policies, to develop ways of preventing this phenomenon through information, education and also legislation covering the various forms of forced labour. This protocol encourages States to adopt measures to protect these workers, particularly migrant workers who are placed in these situations; it encourages States to strengthen the control action, which means more capacity and more means for the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ), which means cross-border data, which means applying the solidarity and subsidiary accountability of the entire chain of recruitment, which means preventing ghost companies created at the time and which function as biombos to cover these phenomena of exploitation and violence, which means acting not to punish victims of trafficking in human beings but who exploit them, which means going to the causes of problems. And since we are talking about this issue, the delays, the bureaucracy and the blockades that exist in the registration and legalization by the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) also help to perpetuate this problem. We need to act with respect to migrants' rights, we need to act with greater inspection, we need to act with responsibility for the entire chain of contracts. I do not forget that, at the beginning of the previous Parliament — already mentioned here today — we have presented a bill to combat forced labour. This bill entailed a change to the Labour Code that would, in solidarity and in a subsidiary way, hold the entire contract chain, all this cascade of entities that then disappear, leaving the blame to die single. When we presented this project, we voted for it here in this Parliament, and, contrary to what has been said today, it was not consensual to fight forced labour and slave labor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u107	This legislative change not only had the vote against the PSD and the CDS, as it motivated...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u108	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u109	I conclude, Madam President. As I said, this change not only had these votes against, as it caused a shameful and regrettable complaint from employers to the International Labour Organization, a complaint against the Portuguese State, because combating forced labour would mean — see! — the end of temporary work enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u110	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u111	Madam President, I am done. We need to approve this protocol, but we need more than words, because it is in the actions that we confront with the cynicism of words and that we realize the powerful interests that we have to face in order to combat slave labor. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u112	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today raises two questions, the fundamental question and the political question associated with it. With the fundamental question, we all agree, regardless of how we then implement this in legislative initiatives or in political proposals. Forced labor must be condemned, condemned, fought and must never be ignored. Therefore, the different forms of forced work that exist today must have a framework, which is given to them by the Additional Protocol of 2014, which obviously reviewed what was the reality of forced work in 1930, when the convention was signed and approved in ILO, in which the conditions were substantially different from today's. Today, there is a reality associated with forced labour that must also be considered — which is considered by this protocol — which, of course, has to be integrated into public policies in Portugal that have to do with trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings today is what feeds the reality of forced labor in many of the places where it actually exists. Regardless of whether forced work covers this or that reality — which is important, but is not what is being discussed here — it is essential to realize how important each State is to give this matter. This importance is first and foremost seen by ratification or not of a protocol that was approved in 2014, which is ratified by the generality of European countries, which is ratified by other countries such as Canada, for example, and which is not ratified by countries such as China, such as North Korea, such as Venezuela, like Brunei, or like Portugal. So what we are questioning here is why Portugal is on the side of these countries and is not on the side of the generality of the countries of the European Union, it is not on the side of developed countries that fight this issue, like Canada. And see! — it is the Socialist Party that recommends to its own Government that it rectify what is clearly in the national interest to be ratified. We recognize the commitment of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and call for good work to ensure that the Government is so committed to doing the obvious: ratifying an essential protocol in combating trafficking in human beings, ratifying an essential protocol in combating forced labour, ratifying an essential protocol for humanist vision, which is the view of the whole Portuguese State and which, with the non-ratification of this protocol, is of course compromised. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u114	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Forced work is a serious violation of human rights and human dignity and is therefore an obligation and responsibility of the State, which ratified the ILO convention on this subject, the prevention and eradication of forced labour. This is a reality that persists in our country, which has also been compounded by the intensification of old forms of exploitation, social inequalities, poverty and widespread consideration that everything is commercializable, that everything is sold and that everything is bought, even life or human dignity. The world of work continues to be marked by the imposition of intense working rhythms, low wages—which make thousands of workers, even working, not leaving the situation of poverty—for wage discrimination and daily work injuries. Undeclared and illegal work, exploitation of immigrant work with genuine slavery situations and, in general, labour trafficking is a reality whose true dimension is difficult to evaluate, such as the underground economy in which it is inserted and that several studies place between 20 % and 25 % of GDP (gross domestic product ). In Portugal, there has been a significant increase in the number of workers with illegal or undeclared employment situations and increases the use of temporary work for permanent tasks. The spread of forced labour is not disconnected either from the realities of unemployment and poverty, or from the mass displacement of populations fleeing from war and poverty in search of better living and working conditions. This is a reality with several examples that have come to the public, the most recent being that of Alentejo, in which workers mostly immigrants live very fragile social situations and of despair, of deprotection, which put them at the mercy of employers who, taking advantage of their vulnerability, exploit them brutally, often by resorting to forced labor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u117	We could also talk about workers, young people, people in unemployment who are being used by employers as free or cheap labor. Or we could also talk about working runaways, brutal and unacceptable pressure, repression and harassment of workers that take place, daily, in so many workplaces and in so many sectors of activity in our country—in hotels, in restaurants, in tourism, in large distribution, among so many others. Or even we could talk about how cutting on holidays, how cutting on vacation days or increasing working hours are, too, dimensions of forced work imposed on workers. The intervention in these realities is not disconnected from the strengthening of the means of inspection and the conditions for full compliance with the functions of the ACT. The national reality is characterized by a reduced effectiveness of the ACT, aggravated by the lack of human and technical means, by the lack of rapid justice, with high judicial costs and barriers to access to legal support by the generality of workers, which in many cases prevents access to justice itself and to courts. in this discussion it is also important to point out — even to finish — that forced labour moves hand in hand with trafficking in human beings. The latest report of the Human Traffic Observatory identifies an increase in this reality in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u118	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u119	Madam President, I'm really finishing up. This is a complex crime which incorporates several actions, forms of violence and exploitation and whose reality requires human, technical and financial means to combat it effectively. All men and women who are victims of these atrocities, who lose control of their documents, who are recruited for one job and forced to do another, who have no freedom of movement, who have been assaulted and have no access to property, must be properly accompanied. The CFP follows the initiative under discussion, saying that it is also necessary for this ratification to leave the role and feel in concrete life every day. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u120	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important initiative of the Socialist Party, precisely because we cannot tolerate the exploitation and inhumanization of men and women in any circumstance. But it is also the responsibility of the Socialist Party to improve immigration policy and to improve the enormous difficulties that immigrants are subject to and to bring them to situations of enormous vulnerability. This will require that, at the same time that we join in against forced labour, against the exploitation of immigrants, against sexual abuse, there should be an equal union in improving legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u122	To close the debate, Mrs Rita Borges Madeira, PS, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's bench welcomes this issue to be so consensual in this Parliament. The practice of forced or compulsory work must and must be condemned. We must use all the tools within our reach to end these human rights violations and now we hope that this protocol will be ratified as quickly as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u124	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. a ( PSD ). First of all, Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : On 4 December 2019, Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 was published, amending the Public Contracts Code and the legal regime governing State intervention in the overall monitoring of public-private partnerships ( PPP ). The PSD immediately requested the hearing of the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization. This hearing was very urgent and the Government should explain to the Assembly of the Republic on a diploma of this importance. The truth is that the Government and the Socialist Party have denied the hearing of the Minister of Finance at that time. We have generated this parliamentary assessment because we do not consider it acceptable that such a profound change, with enormous implications for the management of the public thing, would pass through the raindrops or through the discussion of the State budget without being duly scrutinized. Much has already been written about this decree, but yet nothing has been paid. We have only seen questions: why does the government now change the legal framework of PPPs? Is the government making another law tailored to concrete and poorly resolved situations? We've seen this movie. But let's get to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Members: with these amendments the Minister of Finance loses its power over PPPs; with these amendments it is up to the Council of Ministers to decide on the process of each PPP. So far, the decisions were taken by the Ministers of Finance and the respective area. Clearly, the Prime Minister has empowered the Minister of Finance to assess PPPs. The fact is that the government has created a model of decision with a much greater dilution of responsibilities. In 2012 the PSD/CDS government defined very clear rules, which required PPPs to cost-benefit analysis, budget impact analysis and a risk assessment and future benefits. The current amendments to the law, introduced by the Government, completely ignore the essential requirements for the evaluation of PPPs, sending the Council of Ministers the task of deciding on a case-by-case basis. A matter as relevant, such as, for example, the assumptions for the launch and award of the partnership contract, which were listed and clearly identified, and should be observed in all partnerships, is no longer legal and is defined by resolution of the Council of Ministers for each partnership. In addition, the European Commission, before a law of this kind, also pronounced itself on this legislative amendment, questioning the degree of discretion introduced by the new decree and uncertainty regarding the assessment of the cost-benefit of decisions, among other very worrying considerations. The Public Finance Council is also concerned at the lowering of the assumptions underlying the creation of PPPs. In fact, with the legislative amendments introduced by the government, we have fewer rules, fewer criteria for supporting decisions, more discretionary, more opacity, greater arbitrariness and much less rigour in the analysis of PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u127	Indeed, when control and rigour are reduced — and during a Socialist Party government — we are all right to fear the worst. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is in the name of rigor and responsibility that the Social Democratic Party gave to the President of the Assembly this morning a draft resolution in order to promote the cessation of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December. With the approval of the expiry of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, the legal framework for PPPs prior to the adoption and publication of this Decree-Law shall be maintained. In fact, the legislation before the publication of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December has the huge advantage of protecting more and better the public interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u128	I take this opportunity to congratulate the honourable Members. Secretary of State Duarte Cordeiro, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Treasury, who are present. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Moz Caldas, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, today under review, aimed primarily at three objectives. The first objective was to clarify that the regime of Decree-Law No 111 / 2019 is not — in fact, it has never been — applicable to certain entities, in particular to municipalities and autonomous regions. The diploma in question has not been introduced in this regard into our legal order. Indeed, the intent of the XIX Government was not to subject those entities to this regime in 2012. This reality is, in fact, clear in the way in which the legislative procedure took place at that time. At this time, neither the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities nor the government bodies of the autonomous regions have been heard. However, if the purpose of that Government was to subject these entities to this scheme, it would certainly not have abstained from promoting the hearings to which they were legally bound. It would be a pity if more than seven years had gone by now to extend the scope of existing legal regimes, precluding rights of participation in the legislative process legally enshrined in municipalities and autonomous regions, affecting the scope of their autonomy. The second objective was to raise the level at which decisions are made in relation to PPP. These decisions were taken by the Council of Ministers. The transition from competence to the Council of Ministers means a greater and more demanding level of scrutiny, either internally in the Government or externally in Portuguese society. On the one hand, the decision becomes part of the Government as a whole and not just of two members of the Government. On the other hand, decisions taken in the Council of Ministers ensure greater transparency and publicity, since they are immediately published in the Council of Ministers Communications and are published in the first Series of the Journal of the Republic. This visibility promotes the publicity and transparency of decisions and an increased level of scrutiny by citizens. This amendment does not mean that the Minister for Finance or any other member of the Government is removed from decision-making on PPPs. Each project continues to depend on the financial and economic analyses of the Ministry of Finance, which continue to be essential elements in the different stages of the procedure. The launch of a partnership always results from a proposal by the Minister of Finance, along with the Minister of the respective sector of activity, and their submission to the Council of Ministers, remaining the UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ) as an essential actor of the procedure for launching, training and modifying a PPP. The third objective concerns the assumptions for the launch of a partnership, and it was intended to favour the substance on the form. The material assumptions are set out in the new Article 14. the, continuing to demand, among others, the quantification of charges, the potential impact of the risks affecting the public sector and the demonstration that the partnership presents, for the public sector, benefits in relation to alternative ways of achieving the same objectives. What ceases to exist is a list of fixed instrumental elements, moving the Council of Ministers to be able, in accordance with the nature and characteristics of the partnership in particular, to set the right elements to demonstrate those material assumptions, but in response to the particularities of the type of partnership to be held. The Government, without prejudice to defending the merits of the option it has pursued, considers that the discussion to take place in this House, as a matter of specialty, can allow an extended consensus which safeguards the interest of the State and public entities and the continuation of the public interest in PPP matters, being at the disposal of the Assembly to contribute to that debate and to the improvements that will enable that consensus to be reached. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u130	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: The Government of the Socialist Party decided that cost-benefit analysis would no longer be compulsory in the legal framework of PPPs. The Government wanted the preparation of these contracts to be a political and casuistic decision of the Council of Ministers, without ensuring financial responsibility. The Liberal Initiative immediately reacted publicly and immediately submitted a draft resolution for the Government to change its decision. So far, this proposal has not been discussed here. We still asked yesterday to be dragged into today's debate, but the PS once again blocked.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u132	Don't! The discussion can be held now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u133	But the contamination of the political system by PS cannot yet block everything. You can't shut us up, for example. We therefore say here, with all the letters, that cost-benefit analyses are an essential guarantee of the proper application of taxpayers' money. Without them, it is not possible to manage priorities within public investments and partnerships, including the important PPPs of the authorities in housing. Without them, there can be no proper scrutiny or accountability. Without them, arbitrariness will reign and favor-CL will be shared. Today, we will see who votes in favour of this proposal. Today, we will see who is on the side of opacity and who is on the side of transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u135	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The country's experience of public-private partnerships is a ruinous business procession, which confirms not only the damage that results from them to the State, to the public service and to the populations, but also the need to address the problem of PPPs, re-establishing the public control of the services concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u138	This is the inevitable conclusion, therefore, necessary for the political options in this decision. What is needed is to end the PPPs and not continue searching for libi to insist on this model. Since they emerged in Portugal, in 1993, with the construction of the Vasco Bridge of Gama, PPPs have often been used for the construction of infrastructures and for the privatization of services provided from highways, even the complementary road network and even hospitals, through the « bridge train ». The use of PPPs had as main objectives the depreciation of investment and the delivery to economic and financial groups of very high revenues supported with public money. In other words, it had as its main objective to ensure that the investments were realized, but not accounted for for by the deficit in their implementation. Moreover, the disputes arising under these contracts are referred to arbitral jurisdiction, withdrawing them from the jurisdiction of the State courts, with serious damage to the defence of the public interest. The CFP proposal is very clear, very concrete and has recently been re-presented. We proposed that PPP contracts should not be renewed immediately, together with the revision of existing contracts, with the aim of reversing services and infrastructure to the State. This proposal of the PCP, to put a final point in public-private partnerships, had the votes against the PS, PSD, CDS, Arrival and Liberal Initiative. Furthermore, in this Parliament, as in the previous one, the CFP proposed that the PPP of the ‘bridge train’ should not be renewed or extended and that the end of this contract should be translated into its conversion to public management. The proposal had the votes against PS, PSD, CDS and PAN. What is intended, with this parliamentary assessment, is a new amendment to the PPP regime approved by this government, which has even begun to become a true case of misleading advertising. Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December was announced and reported as being the diploma that passed decisions on PPPs to the Council of Ministers, removing them from the restricted sphere of sectoral protection and finance — the final point. But the substance of this decree is far from being summed up in that amendment. The fundamental issue in this diploma and in this parliamentary assessment is another: the amendment contained in the decree-law to facilitate proceedings, alleviating requirements and requirements and defining analysis of conditions and criteria in a case-by-case manner for each new PPP contract that the Government wishes to adopt. We have always said that the PPP model is not a tool that can be improved. Don't! The PPP model is a pest that needs to be eradicated, and if this legislation is used to facilitate new PPPs, it must of course be repealed. For this reason, the CFP proposes the cessation of the validity of this decree-law, reaffirming the requirement that a final point be placed on these disastrous businesses for the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In bad time—I would say even in bad time—the government decided to amend the PPP regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u141	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u142	Let's remember a principle. A public-private partnership is a contract that should be used when ensuring two fundamental things: first, a better service for the citizen and secondly, less charge for the public record, which is the same thing as saying "less taxes on taxpayers".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u144	In the past — and it is important to remember the history of the country — this did not happen that way. There are bad examples of PPP in Portugal. In many cases—not at all, it is also fair to say – especially in road PPPs, they were used to launch, kick charges for the future, to leave the accounts to pay later, for future generations. It was contracts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ruinous to the country. Some people today have borders that are being investigated criminally. And it was important for the Socialist Party and the Government to remember this before changing their diploma. The CDS has now tabled amendments which, I would say, are essential to restore decency, which should never have disappeared from the legal system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u146	First of all, I refer to 16 — Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, 16! — general requirements to be met by any PPP. It is not « case by case » or « soon you see how it is in this or that ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u148	These are 16 general requirements, which are not bureaucratic, are materials, so that we do not have ruinous PPPs again, and that are not replaced by the five that the Socialist Party has now created: cost-benefit analysis, which is the most basic and fundamental, budget impact study, multiannual financial programming, contingency preparation. Secondly, we propose that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Sector regain their powers and responsibility for the release of PPPs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this matter, especially with regard to the past we have in Portugal, the responsibility for these decisions cannot be diluted in the Council of Ministers. We want to know who has the responsibility for taking these decisions so that after a few years, when we are looking for those responsible, do not say: "It was the collegial body of the Council of Ministers, it is not well known who proposed and who did not know who approved it. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u150	Finally, contrary to what happens to the rest of the diploma, there is one point where a clarification is made, not a modification, regarding the applicability of this scheme to municipalities. In particular, this point will allow to unlock a work that is structural for the city hall of Porto, a work that was electorally sponsored and that was part of the electoral program of a candidacy in which the CDS participated. We cannot, therefore, be against today and prevent what we then commit ourselves to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u152	That is why we will not vote in favour of the cessation of work, but we will vote in favour...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u153	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u154	Of course. As I said, we will vote in favour of all the amendments which seek to restore the power of the Minister of Finance and which seek to restore decency in the requirements of PPPs. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u155	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all certainly remember — perhaps more than others — the trick of the use of public-private partnerships was a remarkable invention by the Governments of the Cavaco Silva PSD, an invention that seems more like a magic number, because it allowed governments to present work today so that others would pay tomorrow. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Now, discovering the formula, it was seen: the governments that continued to use and abuse such remarkable invention. They were public-private partnerships for everything and for nothing, which translated into big business for the private, it is true, but that they were absolutely ruinous to the state. In fact, the excessive and uncritical use of this public procurement instrument has not only placed heavy burdens on taxpayers as well as has also compromised and, in fact, continues to threaten in a frightening way future generations. Today, when confronted with the Government's diploma we now appreciate, what we realize is that decisions on public-private partnerships are no longer dependent on the Ministry of Finance to be taken by resolution of the Council of Ministers. But, in our view, this amendment is merely a cosmetic operation that maintains the essential, the essential being the existence and maintenance of such contracts. In other words, what is meant by this amendment, promoted by the diploma that is being appreciated, is not putting a brake on these ruinous businesses to the state. What is intended with this amendment is only and so legitimate, under the collective decision, the State's business through public-private partnerships. But the most serious, in our view, is the other amendments promoted by the government, because what we see in them is more discretionary in decisions, less transparency in proceedings and, above all, less objectivity in contracts, because there is an intentional smoothing of requirements. In fact, much of the requirements which were explicitly listed in the law and which were intended for all public-private partnerships, both in their launch and in their award, are now literally removed to become defined for each of the partnerships, with accommodating decisions and ad hoc solutions. In addition, there is an incomprehensible and unacceptable resignation of the State to the ordinary courts to hand over these disputes to arbitral courts, as large companies so much like, which is not understood. That is also why the Greens cannot follow these government amendments, until what is required, in fact, is not to guarantee a life insurance for these businesses, is to put a definitive brake on these businesses, which continue to mortgage our future, which are ruinous to the state and which continue to be very hard on taxpayers. After all these years and the grueling damage to the state we all know, it was time to learn from the mistakes, but, apparently, it is not easy. That is why the Greens also bring to discussion a legislative initiative with the clear aim of putting an end to the application of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December. [[PEV and PCP Member Bruno Dias applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u157	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Public-private partnerships are a means of contracting the State with private entities for the construction, management or exploitation of services and / or infrastructure. The first experience of PPP was closed by the Government of Cavaco Silva...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u159	It's true! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u160	...and since then it has been the successive governments, PS and PSD and CDS, which have proved to be the biggest sellers of the idea that PPPs were the solution to all public investment problems. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The results of PPP governance speak for themselves: they flooded all sectors with PPP contracts in the most diverse ways, all ruinous to public safes, and between 2011 and 2018 cost the State EUR 12 billion. Therefore, the criticism of the model is not new and has already led the Assembly of the Republic to pronounce itself on PPP in the Parliamentary Committee on Contractualization, Renegotiation and Management of All Public-Private Partnerships of the Road and Railway Sector, whose final report was approved in July 2013, in which it was concluded that PPPs and their renegotiations were in many cases, and especially in the highways, detrimental to the public record. For all this, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has always shown itself against the existence of this mechanism. I fear that I have said it several times and we reiterate that position.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : To be against PPPs cannot be held responsible for taking action when the public interest is again called into question, as we believe it happens with the publication of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019. We know that what is at stake, with the Parliamentary assessment for today marked, is not yet the possibility of extinguishing PPPs, whether or not we allow the Court of Auditors to cease to exercise prior control when this Court has so often been the guarantor of public interest and public record. We also know that what is at stake today is whether we want to lighten or not the assumptions to be observed at the time of the launch and award of PPPs. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this debate the Left Block does not steal, as it does not steal from the debate of the urgent need for the public interest to extinguish the PPP regime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u163	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diploma we are discussing today has created a genuine PPP SIMPLEX, since it politicized the decision to hire PPPs, has made it flexible the assumptions for its launch and award—which cease to be taxed in the law and are defined, on a case-by-case basis, by the Council of Ministers—and ended in practice with the cost-benefit analysis. These changes are serious and may call into question the sustainability of public accounts, so there are two notes that I would like to start by leaving here today. The first one is related to the PSD. It is not clear why the PSD has hesitated so much in presenting this initiative, not only because this diploma is an inheritance from your government,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... but also because your Centeno, Prof. Miranda Sarmento, in 2013, strongly defended cost-benefit analysis mechanisms, even defending that one should go further in these mechanisms so as to allow to look at the medium and long-term effects of PPPs. The second relates to the Government, to stress that the same Siza Vieira who, in 2019, weakened the role of the Minister of Finance in PPPs and ended with cost-benefit analysis is the same as that in 2008, as a academic, he praised the British model, saying that the involvement of the Minister of Finance in the initial decision-making phase is important so that the comparability of future charges and their inclusion in the multiannual investment programmes of the Administration can be assessed and valued by the cost-benefit analysis. In today's debate, we are on the side of Siza Vieira Academia. Moreover, we also do so because, following the publication of this decree, there have been several criticisms and seizures that have been heard, particularly from the President of the Council of Public Finance and even from the European Commission. The NAP has no ideological prejudices about PPPs. We believe that they are an instrument to be considered when they mean better and cheaper services to citizens and, of course, if their use is made with budgetary responsibility, with a rigorous cost-benefit analysis and with transparency mechanisms that allow their effective scrutiny. The legal framework regimes of PPPs that existed before the 2019 decree were not perfect: they allowed wrong investment decisions, due to a little strict cost-benefit analysis, and even if the State linked itself to ruinous clauses for the public record, such as those that subject the emerging PPP disputes to an arbitral route. However, despite all the defects, they were undoubtedly more responsible and balanced than the one presented by the Government in this legislation. The NAP therefore argues that, on the one hand, all potentially abusive clauses of current PPPs are reviewed and, on the other hand, in the future, the conclusion of new PPPs is conditional on obtaining a positive technical opinion from an independent and credible entity. It is because of the debate on these proposals that we are going to be beaten during this legislature, but for now the correct thing is done: the NAP initiative is adopted and the PPP decree approved by the government is ceased. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u165	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: When we start this debate, we know which side each party is on with respect to PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u167	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u168	The coherence of the parties on our left seems evident to us. However, I cannot fail to point out that the Left Block, although it has tabled proposals for amendment of the law decree, which it seems will also vote in favour of this cessation of operation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u169	Convincingly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u170	...which seems to us to be incompatible with honesty in this matter. Having said that, I would like to say that the Socialist Party and, of course, the Government naturally see a parliamentary assessment on a matter of this nature. We retain it with total naturality. I listened carefully to Mr Afonso Oliveira's speech and it seemed to me that he did what he was supposed to be the diagnosis of what his interpretation of the situation was but that he did not finish his work. I am sorry to say that, but you did not finish your work because, in some way, what was absolutely essential in this debate was that the PSD should go to the end - and "go to the end" means to present amendments to this diploma. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] That is why I say and underline that we are completely comfortable with parliamentary appreciation. But it seems that the PSD gentlemen cannot be comfortable with the fact that they simply criticize, criticize, criticize and not present solutions. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] Now, the country does not understand this, Mr President. The country does not understand that the PSD, the largest party of the opposition, which wants to be an alternative, is not useful to the country, does not present proposals for amendment. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We do not agree with all the criticisms that you have made. I repeat, we do not agree with criticism, but we are available to discuss, to debate, to have a balanced diploma that meets the interests of all and resolves the discomfort of some parties within this House. [[PSD protests.]] And the honourable Member knows what we did to make it so. He knows that the Socialist Party was available for this debate. You know that the Socialist Party has asked for amendments so that we can discuss them. But the PSD does not want to discuss, the PSD does not want to debate, the PSD is acting - let me use this expression - as a traquines student inside a classroom that suddenly throws a bomb of smell...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u171	Carnival's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u172	... and that, when they ask him who put it down, he whistles into the air and says it has nothing to do with it! The PSD is a responsible party and, as such, must present solutions and contribute to this diploma meeting the interests of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u173	Before the end of this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u174	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have listened very carefully to the debate. There are parliamentary groups that are against anything that is not contained in Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 ; there are parliamentary groups that disagree with parts of the same Decree-Law, but it did not result from this debate that there was any parliamentary group entirely contrary, globally, to the content of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u175	That's it! Are they just "senses"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u176	And therefore, contrary to the adoption of resolutions that fight for the cease-of-vigilment, what was proper in this parliamentary debate was to deepen this debate in the field of expertise and to achieve a wider consensus in Portuguese society on a topic that is very important for the country and for the preservation of the public interest. The Government's willingness to feed this debate is serious and continues. It is now up to the ladies and gentlemen. Members will reflect on the way ahead: improve the legal regime on PPPs or simply go back to the original regime that created problems and prevents certain essential works in parts of the national territory and thus prevent the development of the country. The Government's willingness to continue this debate remains clear and, until the vote, it will be up to each of the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Members to reflect on whether it is intended to end this debate today or to mature it, which would be a great achievement for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u177	For the end of this debate, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD has the floor for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u178	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Mr Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party, sometimes has difficulty in raising the debate and that was what he did here, showing his misunderstanding on how we came to this debate and the will that we had for this debate to take place two, three days after the decree-law to be approved and published when no reference was made in the Committee on Budget and Finance. But that was how it should have been: the Minister should have gone there and that was where this discussion should have begun. This is not how it happened because of the Socialist Party and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u179	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u180	Mr. Carlos Pereira, let me tell you this: we recognize only one merit in this decree-law, in the current government diploma, which is the introduction of an interpretative standard for autonomous regions. It is a fact, it is true: it was only an interpretative standard that emerged in this diploma, which is an evolution, that is good for us. In our view, this interpretative standard must be improved and what we are going to do today, with the cessation of this diploma—so we hope that it will happen! — it is to move forward with a draft law which reflects this interpretative standard in relation to the law previously in force. In other words, what can be done is completely different from what is at stake here. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] Let me tell you, Mr President, that this decree-law has no reason to be approved. It's too bad, it'll be a lot better to keep the law as it was. Therefore, what we are going to do is present a bill to address this issue, which is of the utmost importance and which has been well dealt with in this case, in fact, is the only merit of this proposal. At the end of this debate, what I must say is this: the PSD was the party that brought this issue to Parliament for parliamentary assessment, since it would be ill-solved if we did not bring it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u181	You don't understand anything, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u182	Therefore, this was the opportunity to discuss the topic, which is of the utmost importance, and to treat it how it should be treated. This decree of law, as approved by the Government, makes no sense, is worse than the previous law, which must therefore remain as it was. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u183	Mrs. Members, on this matter have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft Resolution Nos 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ; 296 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, 300 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, 302 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which makes the first amendment to the Public Contracts Code, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ; and 303 / XIV / 1. a ( PEV) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which proceeds from the first amendment of the Code of Public Contracts, annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May. In addition to these initiatives, I also take note of the admission of two amendments to the CDS-PP and BE, which come down to the Committee on Budget and Finance. We therefore concluded this item on the agenda, moving immediately to the fifth point, which consists in the joint assessment of the Drafts of Law Nos 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional regime for the National Health Service under the law of commitments and late payments ( Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February) and 201 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the law of commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012, of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epidemic outbreak we face in our country is a major example, because health services cannot be dependent on and conditioned by legislation, such as the law of commitments and late payments, which prioritizes criteria of an administrative, economic and financial nature, by secondary health needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u186	Acquisition of clinical material, medical devices and medicines to cause virus infection is not compatible with the law of commitments and late payments. Regardless of the rules of the law, in health institutions, nothing can be lacking, even nothing, to treat patients. in this sense, we propose the creation of a regime except the National Health Service ( SNS ) of compliance with the law of commitments and late payments, regarding: acquisition of medicines, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, clinical consumption material and medical devices, goods and services or the execution of investments whose projects have been approved with Community funds or have budgetary cabimentation. An exception has already been created for local authorities. There's no reason why the SNS is no exception. That depends only on the political will.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of the constitutional right to health must prevail over any exclusively economic and financial criteria. It is inconceivable that there are contracts for the purchase of medicines, in particular for the treatment of oncological diseases, HIV ( Human Immunodeficiency Virus) / AIDS ( Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome), rheumatoid arthritis, among others, or contracts for the purchase of goods and services, including food, clothing treatment, but also maintenance, or for the realization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy and even for the conduct of investments in health units that have been refused. This compromises the functioning of hospitals and the provision of health care to users. There are more than 40 contracts which have had the visa refused by the Court of Auditors since 2017. Since the entry into force of the law, hospital units are the champions of non-compliance. These elements should alert you to the need to do something. The extension of the deadline for the determination of available funds will relieve, but it does not solve the fundamental problem. We need to go much further, in the sense of the proposal we are bringing here today. Public health services do not have to be confronted with the option of complying with the law or treating patients. If they comply with the law, they do not treat patients properly, if they do not comply with the law, there is room for civil, criminal, disciplinary, financial and penal liability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u189	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u190	The application of the law of commitments and late payments is only an obstacle to the proper functioning of hospitals. There is a structural problem in the SNS that the law of commitments and late payments will not solve nor will it ever solve: the underfinancing of public health services. While SNS funding is not adequate to ensure the functioning of health centres and hospitals and to ensure the health care to which all users are entitled, there will always be non-compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u192	This is not a law to solve any problem, which is another reason why it does not apply to the purchase of essential materials and products for health, nor to the making of investments to optimize hospitals so that they have greater response capacity in providing quality care to users. The reality demonstrates every day, and the situation we are living in today's country makes it clear, that this law does not sympathize with the functioning of public services and that health must be first and foremost.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u193	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u194	It remains to know who accompanies the PCP and wants to defend the SNS and ensure health care for all. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u195	For the presentation of Bill No 201 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u196	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law of commitments, created in 2012 by the PSD and the CDS-PP, is a driving force for the development of the National Health Service. It's no surprise. In fact, she was made to be exactly that. This law prevents investment in hospitals and the creation of new services in SNS. This law limits access to therapies and medicines. This law limits the readiness of the SNS to respond, for example, to outbreaks and epidemics such as those that the world currently lives. This law is against this fundamental right, which is the right to health. The law of commitments is not reformable and it is not with remedies, as the Government has tried in the State Budget for 2020, which will actually deal with the problem. The SNS must be removed from the application of a law which has always aimed to cut into the social functions of the State. All of us remember how PSD and CDS-PP called it "fats". During the entire period of the law of commitments there were numerous refusals of prior visas of the Court of Auditors, which prevented institutions of the National Health Service from doing works, extending facilities or acquiring medicines. Only 40 visas have been refused since 2017. I refer to the most recent: the Hospital de Guimarães was prevented from acquiring medicines for various diseases, including a rare genetic disease; the Hospital de Lisboa Norte was prevented from acquiring drugs used in the treatment of cord cancer; the Hospital Amadora-Sintra was prevented from acquiring medicines for the treatment of HIV/AIDS; and, again, the Hospital de Lisboa Norte Hospital was prevented from acquiring therapy for hemophilia. There are only a few cases and some consequences of this compromise law. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unacceptable reality. It's health, it's the life of users who may be at risk. And it is indefensible — indefensible! — keep the juice, this juice, on the SNS. It is unacceptable that treasury rules overlap with an infinitely greater good, which is access to health. And it is the Court of Auditors itself that says that there is a problem here that has no resolution and that this solution must be based on the legislator. So here we are having this debate. So here we are presenting a bill. And the ladies and gentlemen. Members will either be part of the solution or, then, they will choose, consciously and deliberately, to maintain a regime that is preventing medicines from reaching users. The ladies and gentlemen. Members will either be part of the solution or will deliberately and consciously opt for preventing investment in emergency services, extending hospitals or acquiring medicines. The Left Block brings this bill to discussion, because it is part of the solution. We sincerely hope that the other parties will not opt to be part of the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They have recently come to the news that the Court of Auditors has restricted or prevented a number of public contracts for the purchase of medicines, which has generated a public alarm. Oncological medicines, HIV treatment drugs, arthritis and other diseases were involved, which would endanger the treatment of patients followed in the hospitals concerned. Obviously, the situation is unacceptable, obviously this cannot happen, under the penalty of the SNS not being fulfilling its mission to protect the right to health. That is to say, even more clearly, this is unacceptable, because patients are not treated in situations of weakness and sensitivity. The question is, why has it not been given a positive view of these contracts and purchases? The problem is that the hospitals concerned have high debts. For example, consider the case of the Northern Lisbon Hospital Centre, which Mr. Moisés Ferreira said : in July 2019, he had a debt of EUR 54 million late ; in December, after the government had injected a capital injection, the debt increased to EUR 26 million ; in January 2020, after that capital injection, debt rose to EUR 37 million. The problem, therefore, seems to me, of course, until the hospital has asked for more money from the government, for which it has not yet received an answer. So the question you have to ask yourself, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is: what is really wrong? As Mr. Moisés Ferreira says, what is the real garrote that prevents people from being healthy? Is it the law of commitments or is it the chronic subordination of these hospitals?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u199	And let the Block approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u200	This is because, even without the law of commitments, the problem of overpayment will not solve the debt, which will increase, and will not prevent the risk of lack of supplies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, removing health from the law of commitments is a little bit like saying that it is now worth passing checks without coverage. The problem is not the checks, Mr President; the problem is even the coverage, because if there is no money, if there is no budget of nothing it is worth passing the checks. That is why you are proposing something that may seem to be going to solve all the problems, but in fact it will continue to be inconsequential, until you can guarantee adjusted, appropriate budgets and, at the beginning of the year, let you know that you take the management of hospitals to more than July, that is, to arrive until December, the problem of autonomy must also be solved within the legal framework to manage it. Otherwise, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the same thing as taking health from captivity and we're all resting. There may be no captives, but then we know, as today, that in the case of shared services of the SNS, 14 million euros have been missing in the last two years. There are many ways to create garrots, but the main thing is not to put the money adjusted to solve the problems. That is what you should be dealing with, that is why you should be concerned and this is what you should be part of every time you approve the State budgets of this government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u201	Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP and the Left Block have submitted bills that, allegedly, aim to defend the right to health. If that were the true objective of these bills and if that were the probable result of their approval, they would certainly rely on the support of the PSD; only that is not the case. If the concern of the proponents was only to prevent hospitals from buying medicines for lack of a visa from the Court of Auditors, there would be other far more effective solutions. The obvious solution would be to ensure that hospitals have funds available, because that was why the Court of Auditors did not grant prior visas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u203	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u204	And how can hospitals have funds available? In two ways: first, as already mentioned here, ending with the suborbing of the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u206	... that it is a direct and inevitable result of the four State budgets approved by the Left Block and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u207	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u208	Secondly, the law on commitments provides that the funds available may be temporarily increased, sufficient for that an authorization from the Minister of Finance. If there have been cases of hospitals who have been denied the Court of Auditors'visa, it will have been because this temporary increase in funds has not been requested, which reveals mismanagement, or because it has been requested, but has not been granted by the Minister of Finance. That is, if there are hospitals — and unfortunately this happened — that they did not have funds available to buy medicines and other clinical material the responsibility is of the managers appointed by the PS, the Minister of Finance, the PS, and the budgets approved by the Left Block and the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u210	The responsibility for health chaos lies with the parties on the left, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the law of commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u212	On the other hand, if there was a legislative solution to amend the law of commitments, which aimed at ensuring access to health care, it was very simple, Mrs. Members — in fact, it was the solution that the CFP tried, but which then did not resist. The solution was to limit the exemption to the acquisition of clinical material that was indispensable for the provision of health care. The PCP started there, but then he said that, after all, it is for any purchase of goods and services. Therefore, clearly, that is not the goal. What do the Block and the PCP really want? What they want is to put an end to the law of commitments, because they know that this law was fundamental in the process of controlling public expenditure, which allowed the adjustment of public accounts. The Bloc and the PCP do not want certain public accounts; the Bloc and PCP want to spend without control, without thinking about tomorrow, without thinking about the future of the Portuguese. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese have made many sacrifices to correct the errors of the spending of the socialist governments that led the country to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u213	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u214	These bills would lead us back to those times, so they can only deserve the rejection of the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u215	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the application of the law of commitments and late payments has created various constraints in the Public Administration, which, in a fundamental area such as health, continues to call into question the proper functioning of services, existing resources, equipment, contributes to increasing the average waiting time, and, in short, makes access to health difficult. We would like to take this moment to recall the judgment of the Court of Auditors No 17 / 2019 of 18 June, which states that "there is a real systemic problem that the legislator has no urgent resolution". This aspect is also validated by the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association ( APAH ) that has come to reiterate its concern about limiting the resolution of these problems of the National Health Service. of the various contacts and visits that the NAP has made in hospital context, in addition to the many difficulties and constraints we find, one aspect that has been systematically presented to us is the need to be possible contracting and acquisition regimes of multi-year character with greater autonomy of hospital management in the acquisition of basic means and services to provide timely and quality health care to people. In order to be able to respond to the multiple needs of users of the National Health Service, hospitals make a forecast of needs of equipment, materials and services that, however adjusted they try to be, from the point of view of planning and management, is, by their own nature, subject to variability and fluctuations. Also, in this context, we have an obligation to recall the opinion of the Court of Auditors on the 2018 State General Account which recommends to the Minister of Finance that adequate appropriations be allocated and made available, and 92 % of late payments relate to health. I would also like to recall that in this opinion, on page 197, it is stated that the country must undertake reforms to ensure adequate budgeting and control of public accounts together with decisive measures to deal with the continuing and high payments behind hospitals. in this sense, the NAP will follow the proposals presented here. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u217	Mr Paulo Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills submitted by the PCP and the Left Block aim to create exceptional schemes for the National Health Service within the framework of the law of commitments and late payments. Portugal has a considerable budget of EUR 99 billion, of which it affects about EUR 11 billion in health. This is the size of the effort of all Portuguese for us to have a National Health Service. The PS comprises the motivation entered in these bills. We truly understand. The Government and the Assembly of the Republic have recently approved a State Budget which has responded to the difficulties experienced by those who administer health units. In other words, the Government and this Parliament have not, as it is said in the Minutes,'mock ears' to those who administer the health units or to those who say and write to the judges of the Court of Auditors in their reports. In order to resolve these issues, never forgetting that strictness and budgetary control must be underlying the management of the public thing, the new budget has created a legal framework aimed at ensuring more funds available to public health institutions. With this measure the funds available are increased during 2020, with the extension of the accounting deadlines from three to six months and with a new calculation criterion that no longer count on the weight of the overdue debt that would cause them to decrease. In addition, and with the implementation of the State budget, commitments relating to late payments recorded by 31 December 2019 and overdue debt are no longer considered for the purposes of the funds available. With these amendments, together with the strengthening of the initial budget allocation of EUR 941 million and the reduction of the value of late payments, which at the end of 2019 — and it is good to record this! — was EUR 259 million, the lowest value since 2012, it is expected that it will be possible to reduce constraints and speed up the acquisition of goods and services in hospitals, as both bills intend. The conjugation of these factors contributes to a very significant improvement in the financial situation of health sector entities, measure, moreover, claimed by all parties in this House. This was the solution found, without prejudice and depending on an assessment of the results of its application, that could be re-equalized in the future, with the aim that the SNS will always continue to be a guarantor of the provision of health care to the Portuguese, commitment, moreover, always assumed by the different governments of the Socialist Party. We will walk and we will continue to honor the memory and work of all those who have believed in the existence of the National Public Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u219	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is that game of dilemmas that is very fun, but only while it is even a game. The dilemmas of real life tend to be quite more difficult and more painful. This is the case with the dilemma underlying the subject we are discussing here today. On the other hand, there is a need to provide Portuguese health care in the best conditions, which means that sufficient and timely human, technical and financial resources are available; on the other hand, the importance of maintaining financial responsibility and respect for taxpayer money. In order to reach a dilemma of these, one of the two things must have happened: either the budget appropriations were insufficient or the expenditure is higher than expected. No one asks whether we are facing this dilemma because of the incompetence of whom you budgeted or who you executed, what is already bad, or by political convenience, which would be very bad. And the worst thing is, in the case of health, and if nothing changes, these dilemmas will continue to appear every week. We cannot continue to think that all problems can be solved by throwing 'a paddle of money' up and increasing the taxes below. It is the model that needs to change: health needs to have, on the day-to-day basis of its operations, natural stimulus and incentives to provide good health care, on the one hand, and to make good use of resources, on the other. These incentives and incentives are two: freedom of choice of patients and competition between providers. This will be the basis for the alternative of the Liberal Initiative for Health, which we will soon present, so that we no longer have these difficult dilemmas. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u221	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS-PP, when they approved the law of commitments, at the same time they brutally reduced the budget of hospitals. It's a case to ask what they were waiting for. Well, they were expecting this to happen exactly, i.e., the law of commitments to the National Health Service was a roadblock. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] They were expecting the law of commitments to prevent the development of the National Health Service and that is why even today, in this debate, they have come to say that SNS is synonymous with uncontrolled spending, that drugs are spent without control. But the CDS, which speaks of the autonomy of hospital institutions, should also listen to hospital administrators when they say that the law of commitments is one of the main problems of the autonomy of hospitals. Actually, there is a dilemma here, which is that of the CDS and the PSD are not fans of the National Health Service, and we already knew that. But using tools to boycott the development of the National Health Service, knowing that, with this, they are harming users, it is to reach a new level. The ladies and gentlemen. Members who vote against this bill of the Left Block know that they are voting against the purchase of drugs and against the development of services and will never be able to complain when there is no access to health for a single user in this country. That's because it was the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who wanted it to be so. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Álvaro Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u223	To close the debate, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is the Court of Auditors itself that, in its judgments, identifies a problem with this law and its application in the National Health Service, suggesting, including, that measures be taken, that this law be reviewed and its application in health. We therefore believe that our proposal is designed to solve concrete problems facing public health services, health centres and hospitals today, and we will continue to defend it because we consider it fair. Even when the financing problem is solved, if this law is maintained as it is, that does not mean that public services will continue to operate in conditions. It must be taken into account that the law considers the funds available, the expected profits — now not three months but six months, as approved in the State budget — in order to be able to make a contract and that many of the procurement, maintenance, supply contracts are annual. Now, it is clear that it is not possible to make adequate management of hospitals with such embarrassment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u226	In fact, such a procedure not only leads to unnecessary procedures but also to increased costs. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS said, in their interventions, that they defend the National Health Service, but their practice has been exactly the opposite direction. When they say that expenditure should be controlled, we know exactly what that means in your lexicon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u227	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u228	When they were in the government they cut more than 2000 million euros in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u229	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u230	They considered investment in the National Health Service a waste. Take a good look: it was a waste! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was in your government that there was the biggest reduction of health professionals in the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]] This well reveals your political options.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u231	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u232	Mr President, I conclude by saying: when this law was passed, the Socialist Party voted against and, when we brought here proposals to repeal the law, the Socialist Party voted favourably.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u233	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u234	I shall conclude by asking, Mr President, what has changed? What changed the position of the Socialist Party? It has been demonstrated today that this law does not serve and therefore...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u235	Mrs. Deputy, you've far exceeded the two minutes you were given.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u236	...we cannot miss this opportunity to improve the investment in the National Health Service. Mr President, I am sorry that I have stayed in this speech. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u237	We have thus reached the end of today's debates. We are going to enter the sixth item on the agenda, i.e. during the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic table records 216 presences, so we have quorum to vote. Let's start by voting on Voting Project No. 198 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — regretting the death of two more citizens of Portuguese nationality in foreign territory, which will be read by Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u238	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "It was with great regret that we received this week the news that two more Portuguese citizens were killed. The first, a 50-year-old woman, was brutally murdered, taking into account the signs of aggression that the body presented, at the hotel that he administered in São Tomé and Príncipe. The police have already indicated that there is no evidence that this was a robbery, which makes us even more concerned, because it means that it was a crime directed at Portuguese citizens. The second Portuguese woman to lose her life was a Portuguese-Mosambian entrepreneur who had been kidnapped last October in Johannesburg in South Africa. Although the family had been negotiating rescue with the kidnappers, they ended up killing the 52-year-old woman. This kind of news has long since stopped being a novelty. Many other Portuguese were also murdered in London, Haiti, Venezuela and Angola. In fact, in this African country, last year, five Portuguese were killed only within two months and, in the South American country, there are several cases of killings of Portuguese citizens, especially entrepreneurs. The insecurity that lives in particular in these last two countries is a recurring issue which, unfortunately, does not know an energetic and assertive attitude on the part of Portuguese rulers. At the time of the killings in Angola, the Minister of Justice was concerned about the situation, and well. But it didn't happen that way. No explanations were requested from Angolan officials who, when there is a similar situation in Portugal, are the first to ask for accountability, and well. Thus, meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its sorrow for all Portuguese who are murdered in the countries where they are emigrants, addressing their senses to their family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and with abstentions from PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u240	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u241	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u242	Mr President, it is to announce on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that I will make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u243	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Maló de Abreu asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u244	Mr President, that is to say, the PSD will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u245	Be registered, Mr. President. We turn to the vote on the draft vote No 199 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ) — Greetings for Women's International Day, which will be read by Mrs Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "The International Women's Day has been marked for decades by the United Nations as a historic framework for the struggle for women's rights. on this day, we recall important achievements, struggles of several generations, of the human rights of women already enshrined in international treaties and conventions and in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines equality as a constitutional principle and a fundamental task of the state. In 2020, we noted the 25 years of the Beijing Platform for Action, the declaration of which is the international reference instrument, which established a set of measures and actions to remove obstacles to the full participation of women and girls in all areas of life, whether in the public or private domain, and around the world. Gender inequalities have a historical and structural nature, so the effort to counter them requires a permanent active attitude in the adoption of concrete measures that contribute progressively to effective equality between women and men in the various social, economic and political dimensions. Portugal has been on the front line in adopting public policies and legislative instruments for gender equality and in preventing and combating violence against women. However, equality is an unfinished task and, despite the significant advances achieved, structural inequalities and various discriminations persist, based on gender, racial and class stereotypes, and acts of abuse of power, resulting in a dominant patriarchal order. Domestic violence and sexual violence against women continue to manifest themselves as one of the most brutal manifestations of gender inequality and oppression of women. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes International Women's Day and thus reaffirms its firm commitment to the defence and promotion of women's rights as an integral and inalienable part of universal human rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Tax Code...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u249	The honourable Member is asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u250	Mr President, it's just to ask if we won't take a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u251	For, it should have been done before the vote on the greeting vote by the International Women's Day, but we can do so now. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then keep a minute's silence on the approved vote. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We now proceed to the general vote on the Bill No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Law No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the obligation to communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority certain internal or cross-border mechanisms with tax relevance, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall now proceed to the joint vote of four requests submitted by the ENP, the NAP, the BE and the CFP respectively, requesting the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bills 94 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident, 188 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, strengthening the rights of workers in public service in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] So we move directly to page 5 of the vote script. We will generally vote for Bill No. 191 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We then voted on Resolution Project No 51 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We then generally vote on draft resolution No. 153 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — On the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August concerning official animal collection centres and prohibition of slaughter of errant animals. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the PSD.]] Therefore, this draft resolution goes down to 7. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 224 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Monitoring and evaluation of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals and the implementation of the network of official collection centres. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the PSD.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. Then we will generally vote on draft resolution No. 247 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of a working group that promotes the monitoring of the law that determines the end of the slaughter and the creation of the national strategy for errant animals. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The draft resolution is down to 7. the Commission. We shall proceed immediately to the vote on draft resolution No 171 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of the Dramatic Expression and Theatre. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 182 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — By setting up a recruitment group in the Theatre area. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 209 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of a system of linkage and integration into the career of teachers in the theatre area and the creation of their recruitment group. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the joint vote of four requests submitted by the NAP, the PS, the PS and the BE respectively, requesting the death of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a period of 90 days of Bill No. 183 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals and extends protection to vertebrate sensitive animals by amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, revising the sanctioning regime applicable to pets and 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 42 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reduction of packaging waste. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We then generally vote on Bill No. 179 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce the number and volume of packaging in commercial products ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We then vote in general on Bill No 208 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 179 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedure for the completion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol on Forced Labour of the International Labour Organization. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Then we will vote together, in general, on Resolution Projects Nos 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 296 / XIV / 1. a (IL), 300 / XIV / 1 a ( PAN), 302 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 303 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December 2019, which is the first amendment to the Code of Public Contracts, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January 2008, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May[ Parliamentary appraisal No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u253	Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u254	Mr President, I would like to announce that on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u255	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Be registered. We will vote for draft resolution No. 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional regime for the National Health Service under the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delays ( Law No 8 / 2012, of 21 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 201 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Commitments Act ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 81 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Consecrates March 31 as Inquisition Victims'Memory Day. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u256	It wasn't time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u257	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u258	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u259	Mr President, I just wanted to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this same draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u260	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 141 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of the action plan for the conservation of the Iberian wolf. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP, IL and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We then voted on Resolution Project No 235 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Monitoring plan for Iberian lobe populations and their wild prey. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 239 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthening measures to protect the Iberian wolf in Portugal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall immediately vote on draft resolution No 267 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends conservation measures for the Iberian wolf and its wild prey. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u261	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u262	Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u263	Mr President, I just wanted to announce a statement of vote on the draft laws on the Iberian wolf.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u264	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Be registered. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 120 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take the defence measures of the river Tejo. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] The draft resolution that we have just voted down to 11. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 167 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to guarantee truly ecological flows in the river Tejo with regular information to populations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The draft resolution that we have just voted is also down to 11. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution Project No 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renegotiation of the flows and exceptional situations contained in the Albufeira Convention. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This draft resolution is also down to 11. the Commission. We then generally vote on draft resolution No 266 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Review of the Albufeira Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Water Resources to the Country. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution we just voted on is low to 11. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 271 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the review of the Albufeira Convention, present the results of the analysis of the adequacy of the current hydrometeorological monitoring network and make public the results of the monitoring of the implementation of the plans in the 2016-2021 hydrological planning framework, as well as the strategic assumptions that will define the significant deepening of bilateral cooperation for the planning cycle 2021 - 2027. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The draft resolution we have now voted on is down to 11. the Commission. We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposition of Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369 of 13 December 2018 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs by introducing the twenty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I would like to ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the various opinions of the Committee on Transparency and Statute of the Members we shall then vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Justice 5, Case No 2374 / 18.8T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria Constance Urbano de Sousa ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u266	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Juiz de Instruction Criminal de Lisboa — Juiz 1, Case No 10607 / 18.4T9LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr António Lima Costa ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u268	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, at the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Viana do Castelo, Juízo Central Criminal de Viana do Castelo — Juiz 2, Case No 2319 / 16.0T9VCT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u270	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u272	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u273	Mr President, I just wanted to note that I did not register at the beginning of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u274	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. If there's any more, sir. Ladies and gentlemen who have not registered, it is time to say loud and sound.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u275	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u276	You can continue, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u277	Mr. President, I can't register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u278	All right, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u279	Mr President, I can't register either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u280	Mr Fernando Negrão, it is registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u281	Mr President, it is also for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-06.u282	All right. The gentlemen. Members are now all registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore announce the agenda for the next plenary session, which will be held on Wednesday, 11 March, at 3 p.m. In the agenda, we will begin a debate, firstly requested by the Committee on European Affairs, with the participation of the Government, on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( b ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union construction process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ), and Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( k ). the one of the same Law. Secondly, we will generally consider Law No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 828 on the rights of listed shareholders with regard to their long-term involvement. Third, Petition No 616 / XIII / 4 will be appreciated. a (FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers) — They request the creation of an early intervention recruitment group, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By setting up an early intervention recruitment group, 173 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the area of early intervention and 207 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of an early intervention recruitment group. We are thus at the end of our work. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 18 minutes.]]
