ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our plenary meeting today. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Before we get on the agenda, there are several information to be provided to the plenary by the Secretary of Bureau Nelson Peralta, to whom I would like to ask to do it immediately. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, Bill No. 49 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes the simplification of various administrative procedures, including local authorities, and introduces amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 463 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Change the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, in order to value workers, 464 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional non-residential lease scheme in the event of a decrease in income lower than 6. the Commission, 465 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Addition to the Code of Procedure and Tax Procedure by introducing the fiscal conciliation process, which falls to 5. the Commission, 466 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the rights of participation in the legislative initiatives of citizens by amending Law No 17 / 2003 of 4 June 2003 which falls to 1. the Commission, 468 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Prevents the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachic activities, 469 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income regime for tenants and retailers affected in their activity who have seen the establishment closed or limited in time and 470 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Prevention of particularly serious crime, which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Projects No. 543 / XIV / 1 were also admitted. a ( PSD ) — First amendment to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 210 / 2019 of 20 September approving the Code of Conduct of Deputies to the Assembly of the Republic, which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 14. the Commission, 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the « Pavilion 5 » of Dr. Sousa Martins Hospital, 548 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By transparency and balance in the relationship between the State and the taxpayer, 549 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reassess the work of prolonging the outer seabreak of the Port of Legions, 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop and present to the Assembly a National Strategy Against Corruption, which falls to 1. the Commission, 551 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate the career of higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, which falls to 13. the Commission in connection with 9. the Commission, 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the « Pavilion 5 » of the Hospital de Sousa Martins, in the Local Guard Health Unit, for installation of the Department of Child and Woman Health, 556 / XIV / 1. a ( Committee on European Affairs) — Assessment of the report on « Portugal in the European Union, 2019 » and 557 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Inclusion of the traditional circus in support of the arts, which falls to 12. the Commission. Parliamentary Assessments Nos 24 / XIV / 1 were also admitted. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 33 -A / 2020, which takes public ownership through nationalisation of the social participation held by Winterfell 2 Limited in Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S.A. and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 33 -A / 2020 of 2 July ( Proceeds to public ownership through the nationalization of the social participation held by Winterfell 2 Limited in Efacec Power Solutions, SGPS, S.A. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Regiment No. 8 / XIV / 1 was also admitted. a ( PSD ) — Concrete the third stage of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 in this Parliament, which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 14. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u4	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u5	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u6	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings and the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u7	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. The second item of today's agenda included the assessment of Bill No. 411 / XIV / 1. a, the Czech Republic, amending Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July approving the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, amending Article 10. the, establishing respectively the period of disgust between the exercise of government office and public and private institutions and the incompatibility of the vitality of holders of political and high public positions may exercise any duties or functions in undertakings with which they have negotiated by the State as holders of the custody folder they represented. In the new version of the distributed order of work, this bill no longer exists. He wishes to know why, since he who sets the agenda is the President of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u9	The only version that counts is this, which has been discussed. I do not ask myself the reason for this amendment, because I simply admit that I did not have this initiative. But I will be able to answer you during the sitting. In the meantime, I can inform you that the Government has reported that it did not accept the withdrawal of the initiative of the Arrival. As you know, when there are raids, the proposing parties or the government have the right to do so or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u10	Mr President, in fact, the arrival received, with a certain perplexity, an e-mail saying that the government did not accept this indication, which is now suggestive... [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u11	The honourable Member has to deal directly with the matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u12	He wishes to make use of the decision on the agenda in accordance with Article 82. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u13	So, Mr President, do you want the next item to be voted on?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u14	Yes, Mr. President. I would also like to lay the groundwork for this action, if possible, in accordance with Articles 82. o is 59. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u15	Please, Mr. Deputy. As we have an afternoon that will be quick, please!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Under our Rules of Procedure, the agenda has a guarantee of stability, which is contained in Article 61. the Rules of Procedure, and it is to the President of the Assembly of the Republic that the agenda should be drawn up. And this agenda was marked. It is not the first, nor the second, nor the third that comes to see their projects—or because the PS finds them unconstitutional or because Mr. Pedro Alves finds them unconstitutional—to be removed from the agenda. But in this case it was more serious: that until yesterday, or rather until 12 hours and 45 minutes today, the proposal of the Arrival was on the agenda. I mean, there must be rules, otherwise any day this is in the order of the PS! It's on the orders of the Socialist Party! The Socialist Party does not want and does not argue! [[Protests of PS Members.]] Article 61. the Rules of Procedure clearly state that the agenda cannot be pre-established, except in the cases provided for in the Rules of Procedure. And I challenge any Member here to tell me what the rule of the Rules of Procedure says that the proposing party can prevent the drawdowns. I challenge anyone here, because that rule does not exist. So what happened here today was very serious. It was as follows: The arrival has a project on the incompatibilities of ministers who did business with companies with which they negotiated on behalf of the State. The government did not think well, passed over Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic and withdrew the draft from the agenda. Let's see where we're going to stop because any day I have to ask the PS to be sitting here! I think that's enough, right? Oh, my God! That's enough! [[Protests of PS Members.]] That the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party don't like it. Now, let the Assembly of the Republic condemn itself to this discretionary to withdraw a project from the agenda an hour before the beginning of the plenary, this must end! There is no rule that the tenderer can prevent the drawdowns, there is no! If you want to do it, ask for support here for the parties and do it, but there is no. So if today we decide that the project of arrive will not go to votes, I will accept, it is the majority that decides. But it's a gross illegality we're committing here today...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u17	Thank you, sir. You've already figured out your point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u18	Until 12 hours and 45 minutes this was on the agenda and it is unacceptable that it is not at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u19	You've already figured out your point. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u20	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to make this appeal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u21	The point is that when there are raids, the parties or the government, as proponents, may not accept these raids if they have nothing to do with what is being discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u22	In two weeks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u23	And as a result, the government understood this morning — and I only knew now — not to accept this drag.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u24	Of course you don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u25	Now, Mr. Deputy will let the others speak, please. You understand that there should be no such situation, and therefore you should refer to the plenary, and that is what we shall vote on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u26	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u27	Mr President, do you also want to drag this debate? Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u28	Mr President, as I have said, it is a prerogative of the proposer to want or not to have drawn points to the subject under discussion...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u29	In two weeks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u30	... and therefore any remedy for the plenary does not invalidate that prerogative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u31	Where is he? What's the article? What's the article?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u32	Therefore, the question is very simple: the proposer did not admit the drag of the point under discussion. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u33	All right. Although with all these doubts which you have just expressed, we shall vote on the draft agenda which has been distributed to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, PSD, BE, PCP and ENP, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions of the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Let us therefore continue with the agenda. The first point consists in the general assessment of the Bill No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, adopted by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, is registered for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal which we are brought here today inevitably calls us on a subject that must be of the greatest importance, and I think we are all talking about it, which has to do with the fight against abstention. This may be one of the few issues on which we all agree that this Parliament should have priority. It is true that there is probably no convergence with regard to several more daring solutions, but we have all converged on concrete solutions which, by combating abstention, do not alter the structural axes of our electoral system. That's what we did in the past legislature. Without introducing structural changes, we undertake a series of amendments to electoral legislation with the aim of undermining the electoral process in all its stages and, of course, encouraging the electoral participation of citizens. One of the major measures was precisely the introduction of the mobility vote. The NAP, in its electoral programme, in addition to defending structural changes, such as the 16-year vote or the reduction in the number of electoral circles to nine, has undertaken to fight for the deepening of the improvements of the early voting regime introduced in the last legislation, in particular by creating conditions to ensure its enlargement, the existence of a greater number of voting tables and greater effectiveness in the organization of the process. This proposal for a law of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores is, in our view, inserted in this deepening logic advocated by the NAP, seeking to apply the regime of the early vote, already provided for in other electoral laws, to the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, so it will necessarily count on the favourable vote of the NAP. This proposal is not only positive because it promotes electoral participation, as it takes particular importance in the context of the health crisis in which we live and which requires respect for the principles of social distancement, which this proposal guarantees by allowing the various voters to disperse for days. We have concluded by leaving an appeal to the need of this Assembly of the Republic to consider, as a matter of fact, any supplementary surgical amendments which will appear necessary to ensure not only the safety of these regional elections but also future electoral acts, such as elections for local authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u35	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you, with all the implications of this information, that we already have quorum to vote on. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal to amend the Elections Act for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores is, in our view, worthy. It proposes the implementation of the early vote on mobility and part of the example already implemented in the last year's European elections, both in the legislative elections, which deserved both approval and widespread accession. The advance vote on mobility is a tool that allows the elector or elector to exercise his or her civic duty to vote on a voting table located in a geographical area other than that of his or her residence. The introduction of this mode of vote in the legislation of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in its Elections Act, compatibles and harmonizes this Elections Act with which it already exists for either the election of the President of the Republic, either for the election of the Assembly of the Republic or for the European elections. Therefore, and from this point of view, the Left Block accompanies and welcomes the initiative of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores and we also welcome the motivation presented for the amendment to the law: to unburocratize and, at the same time, contribute to an effective reduction of the worrying abstention rates. These concerns are, in our view, worthy and in the minds of all democrats. How do we facilitate the exercise of democracy? How do we bring people closer to democratic choices? How do we reduce abstention? We agree with these amendments to the law because, in fact, they respond positively to any of these questions and give, from the point of view of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, a positive sign. Well the Assembly of the Republic could look into the Regional Legislative Assembly, because while the Azores is discussing and proposing to the Assembly of the Republic a change to the law that brings people closer to democracy, here are debates and proposals that aim exactly the opposite. PS and PSD, probably with a little help from PCP and PEV, will approve—they say! — in the Assembly of the Republic the reduction of the debates with the Prime Minister, clearly removing points of interest from the parliamentary debate for the common citizen, considering that the democratic debate, rather than being a virtue, is a problem — something which, as a democrat, I cannot understand – and reducing the confrontation of ideas to a sort of democratic, domesticated democracy, because apparently the confrontation of ideas is negative for the country. This is exactly the opposite of what he thinks who really thinks democracy is the regime that must rule.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u38	So, and to conclude, Mr President, I welcome the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores for this good example that it gives, at a time when the Assembly of the Republic will set a bad example for the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u39	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This session begins in a somewhat unusual way. It was recently Mr. André Ventura who wanted to schedule a matter that had nothing to do with the matter that was initially scheduled and now is Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, who, with regard to a proposal for a law of the Autonomous Region of Azores on the Election Law for that region, brings here a question that has to do with the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which have nothing to do with this and which, at the very moment, obviously, we will discuss. What we are actually discussing is a proposal that makes all the sense and it would hardly be understood that, after the vote was approved in advance in mobility for the elections to the Assembly of the Republic and for the Presidency of the Republic and taking place in the coming months elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, where, of course, most of the reason this voting process is required, there was no such method of voting. in which the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has been very successful, not only when presenting this bill to the Assembly of the Republic, but also in promoting its agenda, using the legal mechanisms available to it to do so. Therefore, obviously, this innovation introduced into the previous legislation makes sense, which was the subject of careful debate and approved the possibility that citizens who are displaced from their place of residence may vote in advance at the place where they are, which is very relevant, particularly for students but also for other workers who have to be displaced from their place of residence. It makes every sense that this possibility is to be able to request the early vote, which will be granted to them, and to exercise their vote on Sunday before the election is held, at the headquarters of the district capital where they are at that time. This makes all the sense, it is a way of enabling the exercise of the vote to people who would otherwise not be able to exercise it. Therefore, obviously it is a very relevant acquisition, which, after being consecrated for the elections at national level, will now be consecrated, as we hope, in the Election Act for the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and it is expected that, at the appropriate time, there will be the same initiative so that in the elections for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira this possibility may exist. But as you know, there is an exclusive initiative to amend the electoral law of each of the regions to be respected by the Assembly of the Republic. I am glad that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores took this initiative, makes every sense that it is approved and implemented in the forthcoming elections for this Legislative Assembly. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u41	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is so happy to introduce the vote in mobility that, from our point of view, it is unfortunate how it is done in this case. He is unhappy at the moment, by the form and by the content itself. from our point of view, it is unfortunate at the moment, because there is a fundamental principle of not changing the rules of the electoral process when this process has already begun and clearly we are already in the election campaign for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Therefore, from our point of view, the opportune time to have made this amendment was before what we are now living. It is unfortunate from a formal point of view, because whoever has the power to request this agenda is the President of the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, after a discussion of the plenary of that agenda, which has not happened. We therefore have an agenda here that formally does not respect the regulations so that we can be discussing this. It is unfortunate from the point of view of content, because in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores there is a possible committee to review its own autonomous status and a consensus principle was discussed and agreed on for matters which were discussed and approved there. What do we see in this bill? We see that what's coming is not consensual and what's consensual does not come. That is to say, there are matters that were already agreed on in this possible committee and are completely out of this bill, while this one, which comes in these terms, has not reached agreement in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Why didn't you get a deal? Because, by the way it is developed, it does not provide guarantees of transparency and exemption from entities that will intervene in the process of voting in mobility. The mobility vote is positive since it respects all the equality that has to exist among all candidates for elections, which was initially very bad, very poorly prepared and this bill deserved even an amendment to its original version. But we still believe that both the regional government and the municipal chambers will have access to privileged information, which obviously does not guarantee equal conditions for all parties when competing in these elections. Therefore, the CDS, respecting the importance of the mobility vote, does not preclude the access of many citizens of the Autonomous Region of the Azores to the right to vote, which could not otherwise have it, cannot fail to say that this should have been done in a timely manner, formally respecting the rules in force and cautioning equality between parties, which it does not do. That is why we will not vote in favour but we will not prevent it, and thus we will opt for abstention, in favour of the mobility vote, but against the mess done in the region, mainly by the PS, the PSD and the Left Block. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u43	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to join the criticism expressed by the CDS on this subject. In fact, this is a norm that should have been approved long ago, since not only has there been many demands made by the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, as it is an electoral challenge that the Socialist Party has already promised to change a few years ago. The advance vote in mobility is fundamental. There will probably be no one here who opposes that vote. The approach between electors and voters is indeed a merit of this law and the arrival will therefore not be opposed to this legislation. But Mr António Filipe, I must tell you this: to demand democracy in the Azores and to ask for less democracy in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic is a bit of a contradiction and the way in which Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, replied «we will do this discussion later», did not reassure us at all. This is usually when the Communist Party, behind the curtain, gives the Socialist Party the hand, and this shows clearly what it is to ask the Azores one thing and do another here, as will be the case of the end of the fifteen-year debates in the Assembly of the Republic, probably with the support of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u45	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by addressing a very special greeting to the CFP, which has changed the position between the assessment in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the assessment in the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u47	That's true! And live centralism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u48	... to be sure, Mr António Filipe, that I think the reason is on your side and therefore I greet you. I would also like to speak to Mr. João Almeida about what you have done. Let's go to parties: it is true that a possible committee has been set up, called Cevera (Eventual Commission for Self-Government Reform), which throughout this Parliament in the Autonomous Region of the Azores has dedicated itself to studying and proposing a set of solutions... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] He proposed in the Regional Parliament he proposed! He studied, drafted proposals and some of them went to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. in this matter it is true that what was being studied in committee was something much broader than the question of voting in mobility and we had only one option: to continue to leave all the Azorians in mobility when the vote takes place. I would like to remind you that, for the Socialist Party, the issue of mobility is a matter that has long been taken up as vital and in the case of the Azores this has a very particular relevance. We are talking about nine islands, hundreds of students displaced in Madeira and continental territory and hundreds of patients moving between islands and to the continent, sometimes for very long stays. Mr President, if we all agree on the early vote on mobility, was it not the option to guarantee these Azorians and the Azorians who could vote in the next elections?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u49	Don't! It was about doing the right things!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u50	Well, I would like to clarify one thing: the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores has 57 Members, of which 51 voted in favour of this law. If this is not a consensus, I do not know what consensus is, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to tell you that, for us, the most important component, until the fight against abstention, is the guarantee of the exercise of the right to vote by all the Azorians and by all the Azorians who, for reasons of their school and academic life, for reasons of health, for reasons of work, cannot be on the voting table of their residence on that day. It seems therefore to me that the abstention of the CDS-PP, taking away the part in which it takes the pains of the MPM ( Monarchic People's Party ), which has manifested itself against the way this process took place, has no reason to be. There could be no greater consensus than that of 51 members of the Legislative Assembly, who, in their use of their competence, present this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u51	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a proposal for an amendment of the Elections Act to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which is an initiative of the Legislative Assembly itself. It is the aim of the Azorian people to dedicate the advance vote by mobility in their elections, i.e. that any Azorian should have the opportunity to vote, already in the next electoral act, when displaced from his residence, as is the case in the elections to the Assembly of the Republic and the European Parliament. With this possibility, more electoral participation is allowed, fighting the one that is the greatest democratic scourge in the Azores, which is abstention. The Azores have very worrying levels of abstention, levels that should shame everyone, but they should be ashamed, mainly, who governs the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u53	Uh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u54	The Government of the Azores, the responsibility of the PS, should be the first to admit its astronomical guilt in abstention. All those who are in politics are guilty, but some have more blame than others and those who rule take the lead. This is not the final Election Law. There is much to be done to achieve more autonomy and deepen democracy in the Azores. To that end, the Regional Parliament continues to find and propose the best solutions. In this regard, it should be said that a timely constitutional review must include some claims of the Azorian people. Of course, the dramatic and unhappy pandemic we live has brought to light the day's problems of relationship with the Government of the Republic and the Representative of the Republic that cannot happen again. Challenges in the area of security and protection of the health of Azorians. The PSD in the Azores therefore considers that any constitutional review is complete only if the autonomy adjustments are allowed. This must be the beginning, the middle and the end of the whole debate. The PSD will always work for strengthened autonomy, as it improves the democratic quality and performance of its own government bodies. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, along with the performance of self-government, it is also appropriate to say that responsibility is required in the results. And here again, it fails who governs the Azores. We are faced with a governance model that, after 24 years of stay in power, presents negative results,... [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] ... as in the levels of poverty, early school dropout, depopulation and ageing of the population. Results that are not a consequence of the COVID-19, already existed in the Azores before this pandemic. [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] It is changing the Electoral Law and certainly greater participation of the Azorians in the next electoral act will contribute to altering this sad social and economic reality that lives in the region, through a new model of governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u55	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers for interventions on this point, and I therefore end the debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ). We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which is the general assessment of the Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals. To open the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, André Moz Caldas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Public Administration cannot, with quality, speed and efficiency, exercise its purpose of ensuring the public interest and satisfaction of public and collective needs if it is not equipped with appropriate, inter alia, legal tools. The proposed law under consideration today aims, in respect of the principle of good administration, to promote contractual administrative activity, without waste of time, human resources and financial resources. The proposed amendments are essentially divided into two areas, united by a purpose of modernising and simplifying administrative activity. On the other hand, a special public procurement regime is established aimed at some public policy objectives that require a faster and more agile response. On the other hand, there is an amendment to the Public Contracts Code which, in addition to promoting a series of shortcomings and inadequacies which the experience has made visible, places its greatest relevance on the adoption of measures to simplify and simplify the public procurement regime. The special scheme proposed herein consists mainly of the possibility of launching prior consultation procedures, with an invitation to at least five entities, up to the thresholds accepted by the European directives, for the conclusion of contracts for the implementation of projects co-financed by European funds, projects integrated under the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( ESP ), for the promotion of public housing or controlled costs, for intervention in real estate whose ownership and management has been transferred to municipalities, in the context of the process of decentralization of competences, and for initiatives in the field of information and knowledge technologies. They also consist of the proposed law on contracts concluded under the Integrated Rural Fire Management System, in respect of fuel management, and in the context of the acquisition of agro-food goods from organic production provided by holders of the status of a family farmer or of the status of a young rural entrepreneur. As regards the amendment to the Public Contracts Code, it is from the outset to highlight the introduction, for the first time, of the general principles of public procurement, of the reference to the duty of contracting entities to ensure that operators with whom they relate ensure compliance with the applicable rules on prevention and combating corruption. This standard is, in fact, implemented by establishing the obligation of certain contracting parties to certain contracts — those whose value determines their subjection to the prior supervision of the Court of Auditors — to present a plan for the prevention of corruption and related infringements as an enabling document. It is therefore prohibited, in prior consultations or in the succession of prior consultations, the invitation to entities specially related either by sharing legal representatives or partners, or by being linked by any type of partnership. Moreover, it is important to highlight, from the outset, the introduction of aspects of the implementation of the contract and factors that density the criterion for awarding proposals relating to new social, environmental and cultural conditions, in order to highlight positively the contribution of the proposals to the objectives of valuing the circular economy and combating climate change, in particular by valuing the short chains and public procurement of proximity, among other aspects of innovation, promotion of qualification and cultural dynamisation, also introduced. In addition, it is necessary to highlight the possibility of establishing a pre-contractual reserve for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and thus to entities based in the territory of the inter-municipal entity where the contracting entity is located, in this second case for the allocation or acquisition of mobile goods or for the acquisition of current services. The establishment of the possibility, in the case of limited competitions by previous qualification, of the implementation project is also highlighted to be made available to the selected candidates for the submission of proposals at a later time of the procedure, allowing the procedural procedures of that competitive type and the preparation of the implementation project to run in parallel, eliminating unnecessary time allocations. The possibility of an exceptional award, on grounds of public interest, of a proposal previously excluded by presenting a price higher than the basic price, avoiding the existence of desert invitations to tender, with respect to the soleity of the procedure, the authorisation of expenditure and a ceiling of up to 20 % on the price, is also highlighted. With this bill, we consider making public administration more flexible and flexible, not neglecting the fight against corruption and the promotion of competition. However, a reform of this nature should merit broad consensus in this House and in Portuguese society. We therefore find ourselves available for technical work and for the political dialogue that you and the honourable Members have been able to do. Members feel it is necessary to deepen the expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u57	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This socialist government, at the end of five years of government, discovers that the rules of public procurement are a challenge. And, get out of there, just cut the needle. He says he will simplify the process, but, as I have said here once, the socialists are genetically incapable of simplifying it to the end and the process continues, in reality, dantesco. And it is known that, where there are difficulties, it opens the door for the sale of facilities. It also increases the limit on the value of contracts which do not require tender, i.e. that they may resort to less competitive procedures, something which will certainly not favour competition or transparency itself. It is given to the contracting public authority the discretionary — it is almost desirable to say arbitrary — to declare that, and I quote, 'the price or cost of a proposal may be considered abnormally low', allowing contracts that will thus make cat-satisfaction of the rules of the invitation to tender. We are aware of the desire to ease the restrictions of the Public Administration and it will not be the Liberal Initiative to criticize that will, but we will not do so at the cost of defending taxpayers' money. And above all, we cannot be silent that, at the same time as the government decides, at the end of five years, to ease the bureaucracy that affects it — to it, the State — it does not even choose to try to ease bureaucracy for private entities, which are, to a great extent, the counterparts of these contracts. On behalf of the companies and the people who, every day, suffer the calvary of this bureaucracy, who have no recourse to them, nor can they change codes to their bel-pleasor, we demand more respect for those who actually make the economy run. What we are discussing here today is clearly not going to decomplicate Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u59	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The proposal submitted by the Government is presented with the aim of adopting measures to simplify procedures within the framework of public procurement, especially in what the explanatory statement designates as « areas of special political priority ». We have taken into account some of the main phenomena that hinder the successful development of public procurement. We do not risk saying that the first and most serious of all is the systematic process of degradation and dismantling of the technical capacity of the Public Administration, the emptying of technical frames, making the state deeply fragile, even as a buyer, leaving it to the mercy of suppliers with agendas and strategies that have nothing to do with the public interest. It should also be noted that this degradation and dismantling of the technical capacity of the Public Administration is, in itself, a factor of limitation and difficulty in the application of some of the solutions brought by this bill, as is the case, for example, of the use of the preliminary programme that is now resumed, as an alternative to the project of execution, in the scope of the book of charges. It has already been said that the definition of such areas of special political priority is an indisputable issue here, until most of the priorities identified are in line with what has been right-wing policy and aimed at deepening them. We do not have time to get into this debate, with all we can say. There seems to be a significant consensus on the need to introduce corrections and adjustments in the legislation to overcome the obstacles, many of which are recurrent and systematic, which place themselves on the execution of public investment, particularly in infrastructures, but also in the procurement processes of goods and services, particularly non-current and of higher value. The areas identified are the implementation of projects financed by European funds, housing and decentralization, information and knowledge technologies, the implementation of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, actions under the Integrated Rural Fire Management System and agro-food procedures. Within the framework of housing and decentralization and information and knowledge technologies, applicability is transient and has the limit of 31 December 2020. In the other areas, the rules will have to stay. The essential of these questions is the change in the type of procedure, the prior consultation procedure being admissible with an invitation to at least five entities, with a limit, in the case of the undertakings, of the value of EUR 5, EUR 35 million and, in the case of supply of goods and services, the value of € 139 000, these values which are adjusted in this proposal itself for those which are in force. The establishment of special procedures for contracts related to Community financing is likely to create double discrimination between entities which, having applied for funding and others which, having access, cannot only obtain funding as they are subject to less agile process. The truth is this: in relation to the lowest price criterion, the turns continue to be given and the result, potentially, may be the same, as is the case, in particular, of the standard that speaks of the analysis of the economically most advantageous proposal in the monofactorial criterion of the price. On the other hand, there is a problem that we will continue to have to discuss and which continues to be related to fees and to so-called social dumping. In fact, however perfect the legislation is, the problem always lies with those who apply it and with how their control is made. The problem is always the same: the state, in terms of priority, is at the service of whom and of what? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u61	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government today proposes to the Assembly of the Republic some amendments to public procurement and the Public Contracts Code, and we note that it is a code that has sought to give security, from the point of view of transparency, to the use of public money, which has also been criticized over the years for excessive bureaucratic processes. For several governments, and not few times, it has served as a scapegoat for delays in relevant public works. All of this is facts. The Government now proposes that in some way it attempt to undermine certain public procurement processes, in particular with regard to projects co-financed by European funds, housing and decentralization, information and knowledge technologies, implementation of the EES, fuel management under the integrated management system, rural fires and agri-food goods. But let us look at some of the concrete proposals. For example, when it puts the possibility of contracts falling within the scope of the implementation of projects co-financed by European funds and promoting public housing or controlled costs, the recognition of the non-compulsory basis for the decision to contract should be based on a cost-benefit analysis, in the case of contracts worth more than EUR 5 million or EUR 2 million, in order to promote the continued simplification. Understanding the objective behind this, it seems to us that the good practice of public procurement is really what lies behind this simplification. In fact, there have already been debates in this House in order to ease the rules of PPPs (public-private partnerships) in order, in particular, to meet the criteria of housing projects. Having the Left Block always locked up by a public housing park, we have also always held by clear rules of transfer, rigour and scrutiny as regards public procurement. I therefore ask the Government whether this proposal should not have been better thought out. On the other hand, we note the inclusion of something the Left Block has been defending for several years: that the public procurement billbooks reveal the appreciation of the local and regional economy as well as the short distribution circuits. I am glad that we finally see this by the hand of the government, because I remember that earlier several PS and PSD governments said it was impossible because it was against European rules. I am glad that the times have changed with regard to this matter. Mr Secretary of State, we know the need to quickly access Community funds as a way to blow up the economy and thus create conditions for rapid economic recovery. But this path must be done by maintaining the necessary transparency and ability to vote. We do not ignore the problems that exist and that there could be ways of improving processes, but without jeopardising their transparency. That is why we say that it is with this commitment that we will be discussing this diploma in our specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u63	I now give the floor to Mr André Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : With this bill, the Government takes broad steps to reduce competition in public procurement, with likely charges for the State, and to reduce transparency, enhancing the increase in cases of corruption. This proposal may also penalise micro and small enterprises. And this happens because the government will significantly reduce public tenders and bet on direct adjustments, many of them exempt from consulting more than one entity. In the current framework of public procurement, the use of public tenders for more than EUR 150 thousand in the case of public works is mandatory. The Government intends to amend this limit to EUR 500 thousand. But more: the government creates exceptional schemes, such as expenditure financed by European funds, free from public tender works up to EUR 5 350 000. Practice direct adjustments in the amount of EUR 5 million contributes to the reduction of competition and encourages corruption. But the government does not attempt to withdraw protection from public contracting entities — to the State, it is understood — and to protect contractors. See the example of the new provisions on errors and omissions in the tendering process, in which the State can be penalised for errors that could only be detected at the stage of the execution of the contract, or, in addition, of the requirement for guarantees, which are currently compulsory for contracts of more than EUR 200 thousand and are only mandatory when contracts have values of more than EUR 500 thousand. These rules therefore do not clearly defend the public interest. We also see that the government is doing greenwashing, saying that it is increasing the defence of sustainability criteria, when in practice this does not happen. The environmental criteria are already foreseen, the government has only specified them, and arbitrarily, without taking into account the National Ecological Public Procurement Strategy. Recently, the Court of Auditors published the audit report to the National Ecological Public Procurement Strategy. The conclusions are disappointing. of the 21 types of priority goods and services, only 4 had the completed criteria, 8 types are in progress and in the remaining 9 types have not yet started the work. It is worth noting that there was already a basis for work done by the European Union — it was enough, Mr Secretary of State, to adapt it to national reality — which makes the results of this assessment of the Court of Auditors even more incomprehensible. In addition to the delay in defining and implementing the strategy, the Court of Auditors points out other failures, such as the failure to disclose the strategy to contracting entities, the failure to prepare progress reports, the lack of measurement of financial, economic and environmental impacts, or the lack of reliability and reliability of information at the Base Portal, as regards the application of environmental criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u65	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : Here we have a new review of the Public Contracts Code. The last revision was in 2017, made by the Socialist Party, and we are always changing. Of two, one : or the 2017 reform was badly done or this reform is not necessary. We are facing a review that is dense and complex. In 2017, a six-month deadline for adapting to the new rules of this same Code was given to enable different entities to adapt to this new reality. What happens now is that the application will be immediate and this may imply the paralysis of several entities. The aim of this reform is to revive the economy, says the government, accelerate works, accelerate projects. To this end, it brings here new rules which will only have effect in one year. Only a year from now is that these works and these works will be carried out! Now, what's right is that the economy needs answers today, it doesn't need answers for a year or a year or a half. And one of the measures that is needed today and does not appear in this proposal — and it would be important to appear — is precisely the creation of mechanisms for amending existing contracts, i.e. the renegotiation of current contracts. I'm going to give an example: an undertaking has a one-year deadline. The work was going on and the pandemic, which involved a paralysis, emerged. This same work and this work need many materials that depend on importing from abroad. This exterior cannot supply the country because it is also paralyzed. It would be important that this same renegotiation mechanism existed in order to allow the work to have a longer period of execution over time — plus two, three or more months. I gave the example of an undertaking but there are many sectors and many industries that depend precisely on external supply and therefore these implications should be guarded here. Next, an exceptional scheme is set up here for co-financed projects, using direct adjustments up to EUR 5 million. Today, the limit is EUR 150 thousand, which we recognize is also little. Since it has passed from 8 to 80, it is important to ensure monitoring and transparency of these same processes. Finally, the difference between the general regime and the exceptional regimes has worsened. What we should have was an expediency regime that would be the same for all, that is, with the rules of the game equal for all. I will give another example: the case of the agile and exceptional regime applies, for example, to the purchase of software; the purchase of oncological hospital equipment, for example, already applies the general regime. So this doesn't make sense. It seems that there are certain sectors that are able to have an exceptional regime, due to greater pressure in political power and in government, when that regime should be a speedy regime for all. Mr. Secretary of State said here that, in the context of the discussion in particular of this same review, there was availability to make progress. The facts are many. Otherwise, this proposal poses enormous risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u67	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the governments, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, with the Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. the, says to seek to simplify, decouple and simplify public procurement procedures with a view to improving the efficiency of public expenditure and the consequent encouragement to the economy, in line with the guidelines of the European Union. Since the use of public money is at stake, it is essential for the PSD to respect the principles of legality, justice and transparency and, at the same time, situations of law fraud and corruption. Otherwise, serious damage will be caused to public services and institutions and affect-CL - the image, the good name and even the confidence of the population in general administration. in this sense, in the field of principles, we do not understand the Government's proposal that "it is not a question of modifying, modifying or revoking this Code, which remains intact, being only concerned with the prediction of a transitional regime", when, in an attentive reading of the proposal, we find about 70 amendments to a Code which, in the majority, strictly has nothing to do with the conjuncture — a subtlety in the meaning of the PSD. The PSD, with respect to the whole proposal submitted, has different understandings of the government. In particular, the PSD considers that the scheme to be approved should be the exception and transitional only. As for the sectoral scope of application, it is not understood that there is a lack of clear explanation due to the fight against VOCID-19, health equipment, homes and day centers. A transitional regime should be introduced to regulate the measures taken in the meantime by the pandemic and problems should be avoided in future supervision by competent entities. With regard to the articulation of Article 43. the (Employments of conception-construction), the object should be focused on priority areas of intervention, opening the theme to public debate, heard the Orders of Engineers and Architects, contrary to the broad sense presented. An independent committee should be set up to monitor and evaluate the special and transitional arrangements. In summary, the PSD comprises the purposes of Bill No 41 / XIV / 1. the, in general, but with reservations in some matters, whether or not they are mitigated or cured in the field of specialty. The approach to the principles of efficiency and efficiency can never undermine the transparency and sound management of public money, from which the PSD will not abdicate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u69	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State: This policy that brings us here today has good things and has bad things. It happens that the bad ones are better than the good ones and the very not visible ones in this matter. It is intended to eliminate bureaucracy and achieve it to some extent, although it does leave much of the work still to be done. The worst thing is to talk about transparency when, later, it comes to create a special regime for co-financed projects in which, in fact, we have a direct adjustment outside of any control, also with the existence of sectors that seem to be much more beneficial than others in this new regulation, as if the economy did not have to grow globally and there were sectors that have to benefit from others. However, it would be necessary to ask you this, Mr Secretary of State, because the Socialist Party has systematically been against the excess of direct adjustments. Even yesterday, I heard elected members of the Socialist Party to the Guard Chamber say that we must end the excess of direct adjustments. In Madeira, the Socialist Party also says that we must end the excess of direct adjustments. However, there seems to be a completely different discussion in the government, which we need to increase the direct adjustments. We moved from 8 to 80. We make the regime permeable to corruption and compassion. No one in this House has any doubt that in a few years we will be changing this regime, which will be approved here today. It's a regime that wants to give a lot, but there's a lot left to give. And, worse, it's going to make a big way to do...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u71	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u72	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it is a regime that will lead to a great way to do in the fight against corruption, against compassion and by the end of this nefarious practice of direct adjustments, to the grip of democracy, that which the Socialist Party has so implemented in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u73	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, through the President of the Parliamentary Group, warned the Assembly of the Republic and signalled the need for an amendment to the Public Contracts Code. This alert and this signaling did not appear by chance, emerged from a deep, fine analysis, which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group made to public investment in the last legislatures. I believe that all colleagues in this House agree with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group that public investment needs to be accelerated. If we can say that it was already true that, before the pandemic, it was absolutely essential to overcome the obstacles that public procurement has created to the execution of public investment, we can say with certainty today, at this difficult stage that we are experiencing a health crisis, that it is absolutely crucial that these obstacles can be overcome. I therefore believe that the diploma under discussion deserves consensus. It is obvious from the interventions I have observed that there is room for, in the field of expertise, to introduce amendments that may come to an even wider and deeper consensus. I think that all present and all those who spoke... In fact, I think Mr. João Figueiredo has been wrong when he said that the disbursation of public contracts does not affect businesses. That's not true! I think you know that this really affects companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u75	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u76	It is important that you take that step. I am not saying that it should not be done in another prism, but this is a prism in which it must also be acted and I understand that it is very important that this happens. But, I said, I think all those who are present agree with me that the three main aspects of this diploma are extremely important. I believe that no party that used the word is, for example, against the appreciation of the development of the local economy and micro-enterprises. In other words, the possibility of a reserve for participation in a pre-contractual procedure for micro and medium-sized enterprises to enter these contracts or even a reserve for undertakings in the same inter-municipal area is indeed quite relevant. It seems obvious to me that, in this respect, no one can disagree, especially when it comes to the importance of local development and even, if they wish, of interiority. The second important aspect has to do with strengthening transparency and combating fraud. at the same time as these issues are being presented, there is also an effort, as the Secretary of State said, to implement some measures that actually allow greater monitoring of these very relevant issues. Finally, there is another equally important aspect, which is the simplification and flexibility that are envisaged and which close this amendment to the Public Contracts Code. This simplification and flexibility introduce a number of issues that have been of concern to the government, the parties, the parliamentary groups, and that we believe that they can be changed. I must conclude by saying: today we have a difficult situation and, in the interest of truth, I believe that everyone understands and accepts that it is not possible to recover the Portuguese economy without a good plan of investments that can be implemented with the speed we need. On the other hand, I believe that everyone also understands that, in view of the financial resources that we hope will be able to reach the European Union, so that they can be implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u77	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u78	... we need to simplify public procurement because we are at risk of not being able to apply the money coming from the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u79	To conclude the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, André Caldas, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would have to start the debate again to find out which proposal Mr André Silva, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira and Mr André Ventura spoke about, because on the Government's proposal it was certainly not. What they have said about the possibility of extending direct adjustments is purely and simply false and is a complete mistification, which does not appear in the proposal under discussion here. Actually, the ladies. Members know that branding direct adjustments as a weapon of shooting in a debate on public procurement is in fact the best way to kill. But it's fake! There are no provisions on direct adjustments in those policy objectives, except simplified direct adjustments in terms of the purchase of agri-food products. In fact, to shake the phantom of corruption is the best way not to make reforms in public policies, but, in fact, it is the first time that they are integrated into the code of public procurement provisions to prevent and combat corruption. It's the first time between us! This is the first time the Government has brought a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic that it could legislate by decree-law. Do so to achieve as broad a consensus as possible in Portuguese society so that the matter of public procurement can be stabilized and that the Administration can achieve efficiency in the field of contractual administrative activity. Do so in order to achieve a consensus that will enable this, on the one hand, to overcome this tendency to simplify, deburricate and accelerate public investment and, on the other hand, to ensure transparency and competition. It is difficult to overcome, but it is the work that the Government is giving to this House at the moment, being available to continue to contribute to the discussion in the field of expertise. It is this consensus that will enable the Portuguese Public Administration to achieve its objectives of public interest and the guarantee of collective needs, without us having permanent public procurement discussions around ghosts or chavones, such as seeing corruption on all sides or generalizing discussions on direct adjustments, even in a proposal which, for once, has no provisions on direct adjustments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u81	We have thus reached the end of the second item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 42 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of income in non-residential lease contracts within the scope of the COVID-19 pandemic, and of Bill No. 452 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional scheme applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres, 464 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional non-residential lease scheme in case of a decrease in income and 469 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers affected in their activity that have seen the establishment closed or limited at the time. To open the debate and present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law that the Government submits to the Assembly of the Republic follows exceptional measures, however taken in the context of the COVID-19, with regard to a matter of great relevance to a wide range of economic operators in our country, with a particular impact, of course, on our entrepreneurs and on our businesses in trade, services and restoration. I am referring to the non-residential lease, which is just one of the many spending parcels that these economic operators have. Many times, these operators have in their pyramid—so let us say—costs not only this responsibility but also responsibilities with wages and raw materials, among a wide range of other expenditure. So far, what the Government has suggested to the Assembly of the Republic was that, through a proposal for a law — which has been revised in the meantime — allow economic operators not to pay their income during the months in which a legislative or administrative measure of closure or suspension of activity was in force and in the first month thereafter. We believe that this measure was adjusted in the time it was taken and allowed us to arrive to this day with the profound conviction that it was not because of difficulties in paying the income that companies had additional difficulties in this particularly difficult period, that the Government has never hidden from Portuguese society, in particular with regard to our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u83	You're misinformed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u84	What this bill, which the Government is proposing today, is in some way an extension of this previous measure, which has already been adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to allow three fundamental issues. First, that an economic operator not only has to pay the income with respect to the period during which there was a legislative or administrative determination of termination and the first subsequent month but extending this period until the third month thereafter. The second question that we put to the consideration of the Assembly of the Republic is the possibility of the amounts of income due in the year 2020 may be paid not in the month immediately following the start of the income payments but only from January 2021, in 24 monthly instalments. One last question, which seems very positive to us, is the establishment of a formal negotiating mechanism, in which the landlords and the landlords can reach a better understanding or agreement, providing, in particular, for possible losses of income in order to distribute and balance the efforts made by the landlords and tenants in this complex period of our country, with regard precisely to the non-residential lease. We believe that, with this measure, we can create or strengthen an economic shield, which we have sought to deepen through multiple legislative measures, many of them transversal and many of them sectoral, and thus allow the generality of economic operators who understand it and who want to access this scheme not to pay their income until August, including, of course, recovering the payment of income only from September. We think this is an important measure. It is a measure which will certainly trigger debate in the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, we generally approve this same proposal — and we believe that we are also helping this recovery of economic activity, which, as we have seen, has a very heterogeneous pace in all economic activities, but that, by safeguarding compliance with all the rules of hygiene, health and safety, is already happening in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u85	To present the legislative initiatives of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that businessmen of trade, services and restoration are currently facing is of a gravity that cannot be ignored. The testimony of small and micro-enterprises is that the breakdowns in turnover have been gross and that they are not an overcome problem, before, it continues to make itself feel with sales results that are not enough to pay even the revenue of the facilities. From the very first moment that the CFP has repeatedly been alerting to this problem and stressing that the Government's response in this area is not the solution. What is needed is to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises by reducing their lease charges, it is not suspending payments now to pay afterwards, it is not accumulating debts on debts that the problems will solve. But that is what the government is proposing, and that is all. With the proposed law under discussion, the Government is seeking to extend a measure which is far from responding to the problems of both the so-called street trade in the various sectors and the shopkeepers of the shopping malls. What the CFP proposes is the effective reduction of income in a manner proportional to the loss of verified income. With regard to the general arrangement of non-residential rent, we propose that there be this proportional reduction, and that the landlord should be compensated by the State. In the case of shopkeepers of the malls, contracts having only a fixed component must be complied with and the standard I have just referred to and in fixed and variable component contracts shall apply only to the latter, depending on the sales made, giving indeed, follow-up to which it was approved, without a vote against, in the Supplementary Budget. It is essential to stress that the CFP proposed, in this budgetary debate, these measures for both sectors, in a coherent and conjugated manner. The problem is that the majority of the CFP's proposals for part of the problem, however, have been adopted by the CFP's proposals for street trade. The Assembly of the Republic now has an opportunity which it cannot waste, either to prevent abusive and unacceptable practices that international funds are imposing on retailers — such as Leonine clauses, etc. — to ensure that thousands and thousands of micro and small enterprises of street trade are not excluded in all sectors, as well as shopkeepers with fixed component contracts. What is urgent and indispensable is that there is justice and equity and that the sacrifices are not only for some, leaving untouchable transnational millionaire funds. It is for this response of justice and fairness that points to the present proposals of the CFP. Then there is political courage to approve them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u87	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection: It is no news that this crisis has brought serious problems to local income and economic activity. in a country where the illusion of real estate speculation and rentism lived, maintaining this state of things is to insist on sinking most of the trade and retail in Portugal. This is clear in these days in the historic centers of the most tourist cities, where much of the existing trade cannot cope with the payment of income, in values defined by a speculative market prior to a situation which is currently of exception and lack of purchasing power of the local economy. Just see the street of Santa Catarina, in Porto, where much of the shops does not reopen or is, at this moment, already busy. But other situations exist, in which we speak of perfect abuses. Even so, when the owners and the managers of the malls did not want to — I do not know if they remember — let the shops close, when they were aware of the urgency and the need for the confinement of both workers and users. There were demonstrations and only the statement of the state of emergency ensured that these entities did not seek compensation from shopkeepers for closing stores at times which, if not, were contractually defined. This need has existed and the state of emergency has been covered for an introduction into such a contract that Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State say they are private and clearly inadequate today. And this is sensible: the owners and managers were practicing an unacceptable and cold blackmail, at a time when the whole country mobilized to respond to this crisis. We ask, then, why does not the government now do the same, given the difficulty that the whole economy is going through. Why does he choose to keep a fixed income, which is not part of the contracts of certain stores? Does it not seem fair to apply variable income in all situations, sharing the losses among all entities at stake? What happens is that these entities are, in fact, maintaining the action by blackmail, as they initially did, but now they are blackmailing with the extension of contracts deadlines, the subsequent increase in incomes and, even, the execution of bank guarantees, in the event of lack of notice of the new terms. Unsatisfied, they introduce illegal clauses, of waiver of judicial rights. According to the understanding of these real estate funds, owners of most of these commercial spaces, a contract, when signed, has to be so just a guillotine ready to roll any head. What's the justice system for? Oh, my God! The problem is that this understanding and omission on the part of the Government, which opts not to direct or regulate what should have been defined years ago, call into question a huge part of national economic activity. This option will have repercussions beyond the pandemic period for any shopkeeper or retailer and the economy itself. This proposal and the discussion made by the Government on this matter show, as only and again, that this problem is being pushed by the belly. That is not what is expected of the responsibility of a government at a time of crisis, nor of this very House of the Republic. We therefore put forward this proposal, a start for a concrete discussion to solve a problem without covering our eyes while waiting for it to pass. Because, we tell you, Mr Secretary of State, it is quite visible that the problem will not happen. He is deviating and the recurring discussion of this law has shown him. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u89	It is the time of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues who is not registered. You have the floor, Mrs Deputy, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For health reasons, many traders have been forced to close their establishment or to work on condition. The total or almost total loss of income left many families in a desperate state. Currently, when many establishments opened the doors, it was already possible to realize that the recovery of income will be delayed. In fact, people are still afraid to move to trade areas because of the danger of contamination and many spaces are also limited in lotion, so the revenue received is still insufficient to meet all fixed expenditure. According to the recent survey by AHRESP (Association da Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal), almost 40 % of catering companies and drinks and 18 % of tourist accommodation equalize to insolvency. These figures are worrying and reveal the importance of the adoption of measures that continue to support traders in the current phase of economic recovery. We therefore follow up with the initiatives presented, because they guarantee tenants more time to recover their turnover and to re-enter their activity, also ensuring jobs, and we certainly cannot forget that, in some cases, it may be necessary to adopt compensation measures for the landlords.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u91	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis caused by the COVID-19 had, in fact, unprecedented repercussions in the area of commercial lease. However, the legislative treatment given by the Government and Parliament to the non-residential lease has been completely confusing, without the minimum of stability. We have had the regulation of this aspect in March, April and May and now we are proposing another legislative amendment to which we approved in April. in an already complicated context for all citizens, it was demanded that the Government and the Assembly of the Republic bring no further complications. But more than clarity, it is essential to know what you want to legislate so that the existing problems can be solved. But is that really what you've done? Obviously, we don't think so! It is sufficient to see that in April, in the context of the non-residential lease, while the legislator offered a moratorium and impediments to the resolution of lease contracts, in the same month private autonomy, through agreements between landlords and tenants, was able to reach agreement in the sense of debt losses or temporary income reductions, solutions that guarantee the effective sustainability of the party. This proposal for a law of the Government is accompanied by the spirit of the previous provisions on the subject. In the obvious conclusion that defining did not automatically mean cash and showing concern about the sustainability of companies, it is therefore proposed that the deadline for the moratorium be extended and also the period for payment of the already deferred income and that this payment be diluted by a larger number of benefits. Will these measures be sufficient? In our view, it does not seem to us that they are, but it is the minimum of what is imposed and that they give tenants an oxygen balloon, which allows them to survive for a few more months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u93	It's hardly a balloon! It's a little balloon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u94	However, this proposal is based on a basic error, which in 2021 the tenants will have money to cover the missing incomes, something we sincerely hope will happen, but it is highly unlikely. Moreover, this proposal throws tenants into a vicious circle of debts, very dangerous to an already fragile business fabric. In addition, the fact that this proposal continues to run a serious gap: while, within the framework of housing lease, the possibility of the landlord and the tenant make use of loans from IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana), in the case of non-residential lease no mechanism is provided to support the owners, something which would make sense in view that the breakdown of income from the part of the party was due to the strict compliance with the instructions of the health authorities. Since April, the NAP has been warning that it is necessary to provide support in the form of a loan to non-residential landlords, which is particularly important because, if we exclude large shopping centres, there are thousands of small non-residential landlords in our country who have in their shop rented the monthly income of the family or a supplement to their income. In order to ensure this situation, we have tabled proposals for amendments to the proposed laws submitted by the Government and we have proposed, including, in particular, a draft law, which has been rejected by this Parliament and, in particular, even with the vote against the PSD and the CDS, which, however, had good sense, let us say this, to change its original position and to realize that these support is effectively necessary. For this reason, the NAP will follow this Government proposal in general voting and will again present a proposal for an amendment which will ensure that the Government will seek to establish a support mechanism which, in the form of a loan, will protect small non-residential lords, who have been forgotten throughout this process and in all the legislation adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u95	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government has proposed amendments to the exceptional regime created to support non-residential tenants. The idea is commendable, but the solution is again disproportionate and this time manifests and technically bad. It is disproportionate because, once again, forgets that there are two parts in a lease contract and both suffer the effects of the pandemic. To consider that you can play an important role in mitigating the difficulties of the tenants until you accept and agree to it, but consider that you are the only ones to play this role, forcing you to replace the function of the state, so that we cannot agree! The CFP, in turn, presents a proposal that intends to extend in time something that has been approved at the premises of Supplementary Budget, so we understand that it is perfectly extemporaneous at the moment to be thinking about these measures. The proposal of the Left Block is increasing the confusion that is already being created. Mrs. Members, gentlemen and tenants deserve to be careful and to propose, subsequently and repeatedly, special regimes behind special schemes only cause noise and application doubts, increases litigation and insecurity. It is not possible to continue to treat the lease in this way or in times of pandemic. Whenever you move, it spoils a little bit more. In common, the three proposals are technically bad because they want to impose that silence means forgiveness of debt, because they violate the legal regimes of communications between the parties and because they violate the principles of legal certainty. In addition, the proposed law of the Government wants to do something unpublished: to impose that an agreement that has been concluded between two persons, singular or collective, ceases to take effect by legal imposition and by the will of only one of the parties. We consider this unacceptable! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] This is too much intrusion into contractual freedom, it is a violation of the private initiative and it is blatantly violating the general principle of the application of laws over time. We are available to find balanced and fair solutions, with respect for contractual freedom and for the will of both parties. We are always available to work on this and all materials in a serious way, but we will not allow these tosses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u97	I note that Mr Bruno Dias has signed up to request clarification, although the honourable Member has little time to answer. The question and the answer are therefore expected to be summed up. Mr Bruno Dias, from the PCP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u98	Mr President, Mrs Marcia Passos, the PSD, therefore I understand, has two problems with the CFP proposal : it does not agree that the deadline goes beyond 31 December and has concerns about the issue of the communications regime. If these two questions are dealt with in the field of expertise with your proposal, what is your position on what we propose? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u99	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are naturally available to work on the proposals in the specialty, without putting them on notice, until there is a need to observe the general regime of communications for legal certainty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u101	So, viability! We'll be there to see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u102	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today we know that the European Commission is planning an economic recession of 9, 8 % in Portugal. We are facing a slowdown, a contraction of the whole economy, and the pandemic is having an effect « snowball », which constitutes a genuine upheaval of all economies. This Government has a speech in Portugal and another in Brussels. In Brussels, he says he wants more money to be lost and less credit ; in Portugal, he tells companies to be indebted and « take little money to be lost there ». In sectors such as tourism, trade and restoration, we are talking about hundreds and hundreds of thousands of companies that are experiencing difficulties. All these sectors and all these companies have a pattern, that of the loss of revenue and expenditure that remains unchanged. It is urgent that of the EUR 15 billion you will receive from Europe, Portugal can channel part of this money, precisely for rent, for income support, for support for those who are losing revenue or who have lost income. The solution does not go through credit, which is more indebtedness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u104	And you're going there...?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u105	We have unemployment numbers to shoot and the state cannot fail in this support for companies. If the government fails, we will have thousands and thousands of unemployed people to add to what we already have and what the state does not spend today will spend, and much more, on the future. The State must strengthen direct and indirect support to our companies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u106	And it goes from there, how do you vote? It's just suspended!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u107	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today, we are discussing a matter of maximum urgency for many small and medium-sized businessmen of trade, restoration and services. Parliament approved at the beginning of April, with a broad political consensus, an exceptional regime for the payment of non-residential income. A solution that was important, which allowed the payment of income to be deferred to a later time, in an effort to give time for companies to have better conditions to face this difficult time. Parliament has voted — and well! — on this subject, but it has also legislated on a basis of uncertainty. The uncertainty about the times of economic recovery, the uncertainty about the rhythms of defining the various sectors, the uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic crisis. Therefore, we are here today for, with consensus and availability, finding new answers to give confidence and tranquility to the Portuguese who, with much resilience, are re-emerging their activity, but who do not yet present, immediately, financial availability to cope with the payment of deferred income. To give time to those who are returning their activity, to those who are struggling for their business and to those who want to overcome this adversity is a just, appropriate and positive solution. The proposed law that the Government is presenting to us provides solutions to this problem. On the one hand, it extends the period in which it is possible to request the deferral of the payment of income, which starts to consider not only the period in which the establishment was closed but also the three months after the period in which the activity was suspended. But this initiative is not just a matter of giving more time, it allows us to strengthen the mechanisms of negotiation between landlords and tenants, in the search for more suitable solutions for each of the situations, with certainty, but — and this is a very important certainty for us — that no tenant is obliged to accept or remain in a less favourable agreement than those proposed today. Mrs Marcia Passos, it is true that we are all called to contribute, but there are some who can contribute much more than others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u109	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u110	Ladies and gentlemen. Member States, legislation on this issue also means that we are aware of the wide variety of issues that arise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u111	And you're going there...?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u112	There are specific features for street trade, for traditional trade, for shopping centres, for services or for historical spaces. There are those who live essentially from tourism and there are those who have their main source of income in domestic consumption. It is very important that when we legislate on these issues we are well aware of these differences, under the penalty that we can make mistakes that can open window opportunities for some trade chains to solve problems prior to the pandemic, rather than working on solutions that guarantee the protection of employment, which is now one of the major designs and one of the major priorities of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u113	Mr. Secretary of State, you're registered to intervene, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u114	I am, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u115	You then have the floor, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u116	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u117	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u118	Mr President, I am sorry, but I did not have any indication that the Secretary of State would proceed with the closure of this point. I thought there would be other interventions, but if Mr. Secretary of State intends to make a closing intervention at the moment, again apologizing, I would ask for the floor to be able to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u119	He also has time, so he can speak quickly before the intervention of the Secretary of State. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u120	Mr President, I believe that the Secretary of State would now intervene in closing the debate and I would not ask for the floor after that. I request permission to do so now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u121	You may speak, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I will read a letter sent this week by a shopping mall to the shopkeepers. It says: "In the past months, only the contributions to common expenses and charges have been invoiced separately,..." — these have always been! — '... having decided that the time is right for the invoice of the missing remuneration in accordance with the contract. Such recovery shall be effected in accordance with the exceptional arrangements (...) », etc. In other words, the shopping malls have so far been announcing reductions to shopkeepers, imposing as a counterpart contracts that made them under current contractual conditions over the next five years and now announce that it is time to pay what they are due. What is happening is a scandal, but it would be an even greater scandal if the street trade was completely excluded and only referred to this condition of « not pay now, pay later », leaving the debt to accumulate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, do not forget to take into account that the Assembly of the Republic now has a concrete and effective opportunity to put an end to the serious injustices and problems being placed. They can approve the proposals of the CFP, which have all the openness to solve the problems identified on the various issues in the committee debate. There must be political will and courage and there should be no pretexts or mistifications to hide the intention of some. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u123	Now, yes, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Thank you, of course, for the contribution of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out three matters which I think are relevant. First of all, it is important to be aware that unfortunately the issues relating to non-residential lease will not solve the problems that we can observe today in our economic activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u125	Everyone, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u126	This discussion and this observation are relevant at the time we go through. The second point that I also think is important is that, in this context, it is very complex to find a solution that is relatively simple, that is not too expensive from a bureaucratic and administrative point of view and that covers all the realities represented in the context of trade, services or restoration. It is clear that this crisis has a very significant impact on the overall economic operators of our country, but it is also important that we do not in any way create adequate solutions that may perhaps benefit those who — and unfortunately few — will not be in need of this protection regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u127	But it can be solved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u128	A third point that I think it is important to underline is the following: except for better opinion, I think it is very important that we have some notion that a reality is the non-residential lease contracts — subject, however, to the urban lease regime — and another reality is the real estate leases that typically take place in commercial centres. It seems to me that, in the whole discussion, there is some cross-section of information that does not make clear the reality, which is different, of both sectors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u129	Article 10. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u130	... being sure that the Government has always been privileged to seek and, together with the Assembly of the Republic, to adopt solutions which, in the first analysis, defend the micro and small entrepreneurs and that, leaving no one behind in the Portuguese economy as a whole, can in any way allow these entrepreneurs, who are the majority of our economic fabric, to be protected by this economic shield in which the Government has come to bet, together with other measures of a cross-cutting nature which I do not think it is necessary to share with you now. It seems to me that there is a basis for us to make progress from this point of view, now being the diploma under discussion in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u131	Thank you very much, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u132	Mr President, in conclusion, it seems very important to me to stress that, until June, there was no economic operator of trade, services or restoration whose activity has been suspended which has closed its activity because it is unable to cope with the payment of income. Of course, this is a sign that there is evolution in the measures presented and that, more than ever, things have to follow the evolution of the times in a context of great uncertainty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u133	We have thus reached the end of the third item on our agenda. In the fourth point, the Proposal for a Law No 39 / XIV / 1 is scheduled without discussion times. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal unit system by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1258. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, with the joint debate, in general, of the Bill No 40 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Articles 2. o is 3. that of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2455 and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1995 by amending the VAT Code, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions and additional legislation relating to this tax, in the context of the treatment of electronic commerce, and draft Law No 388 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Addition to List I annexed to the VAT Code with the inclusion of services provided in the physical exercise area in gyms, fitness clubs and health. To open the debate and present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring today to the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic aims to modernise the VAT rules (value added tax) which apply to electronic commerce and will have two consequences which I would like to stress. First, the reduction of compliance costs by companies and second, the possibility of increased VAT revenue by the various Member States, including Portugal. There are four amendments, in particular, which need to be stressed. First, the tax rule in destination, i.e. the settlement and payment of VAT to final consumers. Secondly, the amendment of the rules on the treatment of small consignments of imports. That is to say we have imports and transactions within the community to be treated in exactly the same way, since there was, as there was, a negative differentiation in relation to Community operators compared with the relationship they have with businesses outside the European Union. Thirdly, there is a strengthening of the role of electronic platforms in this regard to assist in the fulfilment of these obligations, on the one hand, by maintaining information and, on the other hand, acquiring solidarity in respect of the fulfilment of the VAT obligation. Finally, and very significant for the various Community operators, the enlargement of the Single Market, which is no longer only for some sectors, as so far as it is possible for any operator to easily make their VAT declarations and settlements by this way, rather than having to register in each of the Member States. We shall, of course, be at the disposal of the Members and the Members. Members for any matter which they consider appropriate to put. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u135	To present your initiative and to intervene in the debate, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today the House is presenting a proposal on VAT for gymnasiums and fitness clubs. It must be borne in mind that there was a fall of 88 % in these companies. In the second quarter, some of these companies had breaks in the order of 95 %. It's thousands of jobs we can't stop looking at! at the same time, 80 % are micro and small enterprises to which we have given the hand in other circumstances and which now also ask us for their help. In the country with the most physical inactivity in Europe, in the country where the complications resulting from the absence of physical exercise are felt and accumulated, support gymnasiums, fitness clubs, small and medium-sized enterprises that affect around this activity should and should be a fundamental priority in Parliament. For this reason, we propose the inclusion, at the minimum rate of VAT, of this sector and of this segment of activities. It's a small sign, but it's a fundamental sign that we're giving for the resumption of a sector so devastated by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u137	It's for that Malta of Enough that can only lift weights!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u138	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr. Alberto Fonseca, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : The European Union has been developing several decisive initiatives to regulate electronic commerce for the creation of a single digital market and has produced the Directives which are being transposed here. These Directives aim to modernize, simplify and ensure neutrality — modernise the rules applicable to cross-border electronic commerce, simplify compliance with the VAT obligations arising from these operations and ensure greater neutrality in the treatment of undertakings established in the Union. Although Portugal is on the European Union's tail at the level of purchases in electronic commerce — it is less than 40 % Portuguese that in 2019 bought something via the Internet, compared with 60 % of the European Union average and more than 80 % in some countries — e-commerce has seen exponential growth in recent years in the face of technological developments associated with globalisation, growth with a tendency to accentuate itself in the face of the current pandemic and its consequences, particularly in terms of consumer mobility. With the internet to revolutionize the way to buy, it is necessary to adapt VAT to the digital era, filling up some legislative gaps, since the current rules are insufficient to understand when, and where VAT should be charged and ensure its effective liquidation. VAT collection is currently difficult when the supplier is not established in the Member State of consumption, which creates unfair competition between taxable persons in the European Union and outside. It is intended to generalise the principle of taxation of the Member State in consumption as advocated by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). E-commerce in the European Union is estimated to be more than EUR 500 billion, of which EUR 100 billion is related to cross-border transactions, and not often VAT is taxed. With the implementation of those Directives, it is intended to recover more than EUR 7 billion of VAT which are currently not being charged and, on the one hand, to reduce the administrative and compliance costs of companies by more than EUR 2000 million. Thus, the electronic interfaces, in which platforms such as Amazon and eBay, responsible for most transactions, are included, on the one hand, become passive for remote sales of imported products, while on the other hand, they are jointly liable for the payment of tax to suppliers. Another measure is the simplification of the rules applicable to the collection and payment of VAT due to the distance sales of goods made in the European Union by the use of the single counter, as Mr. Secretary of State very well mentioned here. This draft law of the Government was scheduled as a matter of urgency, but in the meantime the Council of the European Union decided to postpone for six months the entry into force of the new rules from 1 January to 1 July 2021, i.e. within one year. the Government and the Tax Authority are expected to be prepared and informed throughout this time, because there is no excuse for this not to happen, as is not rare. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u140	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing, with the submission of Bill No. 40 / XIV / 1. a, the transposition of directives related to VAT taxation of services or goods marketed through distance sales or online sales, or online, to use Portuguese terminology. Regardless of the justice or not of the solutions proposed — and we understand their rationality — we hope that it will be possible, in the specialty, to do a work in which it is perceived, for operators and for those who, day by day, work on this matter, what is the objective and what will be the effects of this transposition. It is true that we are discussing a transposition resulting from an agreement made in December 2017 between the Member States to simplify VAT rules and also to combat tax electoral practices. Without prejudice to the work in the specialty, I would like to be clarified by the Government if we had all prepared for the entry into force in January 2021, because as far as I know, that is what was planned. However, to enter into force in January 2021 I believe that it is necessary for the portal to be prepared in October 2020 so that companies can start to sign up. I therefore ask the Government if everything is ready for this to happen and when it is expected that legislation will need to be removed from the House. This is because we are one of the last weeks of this Legislative Session and therefore it is appropriate to understand the deadlines for discussion in the specialty. Finally, I would also like to talk about the proposal from the Czech Republic, which has in common with the Government's proposal that it is on VAT and virtually nothing more. We are talking about a proposal to lower the VAT rate applied to gyms or, on the other hand, supported by gym users when they pay for their use. It will not be for us that this proposal will not happen, but it would have been important and relevant that it could have been discussed at home either from the Amending Budget or from the Budget for the coming year. This is because we should not only look at each case by itself but, above all, look — this is a challenge I leave to the government, because almost every year we discuss one or another specific case of VAT rate — for the whole table and this should make sense as a whole and not just in this or that case. Of course, the desirable is that everyone could pay less VAT. Also in relation to businesses particularly affected by the pandemic, I think it made sense to have done this analysis. Therefore, it will not be for us that the proposal will not go through, but it would be relevant to examine it, all the more so that, by approving it now, it can only come into force with the next State budget and it will not yet be in force this year, as I believe it was the goal of arriving.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u142	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This proposal for a law, as well as the directive implementing it, is part of a long discussion on how to respond to the fiscal challenges posed by the generalization of world trade, in particular trade through online platforms. As in previous discussions on this subject, the European Union's response remains the same forever. The pretext of the objective of regulating VAT in these transactions is to create regimes that objectively contribute to the deepening of capitalist globalisation. The path should be different: to question this liberalisation of world trade, in this case, using online platforms, taking into account their economic and social impacts on the destruction of productive tissue, the destruction of employment, deepening an international division of work based on workers' over-exploration and also their environmental impacts, countering the need for short cycles of production and consumption that avoid irrational logistics systems and with tremendous environmental impacts. On the other hand, the power directory that dominates the European Union does not give a point without knot. Whenever these issues are discussed, we see the attempt to withdraw sovereignty plots from countries with regard to fiscal policy. In our view, the obligation to maintain records for longer is positive and the intention to take subsidiary responsibility for intermediaries is positive, although this is not fully ensured by the Directive and by this proposal for a law. But there are fundamental issues that cannot stop being present in this debate. Firstly, a special VAT scheme is created which applies to the Member States of the European Union and to third countries with which the European Union has mutual assistance agreements, i.e. another share of sovereignty placed in the hands of the European Union, which determines which countries are or are not covered by this scheme. It is the deepening of the common customs tariffs which subject the country to the economic and geopolitical interests of the great European powers. Secondly, a special scheme is created which exempts cases of goods of less than € 150 from VAT, allegedly to avoid double taxation. We will now be talking about a large part of the online trade which is not even quantified in the proposal. It also extends the scope of the so-called « single counter », i.e. online platforms no longer have to register with each tax and customs authority in each of the countries and only register in that counter, which has access to information from the authorities of each country. On this initiative, we have more doubts than assurances. It is important to ensure the fight against fraud and tax evasion, particularly in VAT, but the fact is that the European Union has already used all kinds of files to strengthen its supranational powers and to promote the liberalisation of the world trade market, which deepens economic, social and environmental problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u144	Mr Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Starting with the proposal put forward by Mr Ventura, which in nothing relates to the main regulatory concerns we would like to discuss here today, I just want to point out that, in addition to the unconstitutionality that it represents at the level of the labour law, it also covers services that violate European law itself. So, as far as this proposal is concerned, I shall have nothing more to say. As far as the proposal presented here today by the Government is concerned, it is no longer just a proposal. We all need to be aware that it represents an important, fundamental step towards the European strategy which is intended to move towards a single digital market. We all have to have this notion! We have witnessed, daily, a transformation in the way world transactions are done, with the power of the internet that comes to the top, with the revolution that brings us the digital technologies – which have already been mentioned here – and which make the paradigm of what has been trade at the international level change. Despite the complications that have arisen during the pandemic, e-commerce, also mentioned here, has been regarded as an essential activity, as it has allowed economic activity to continue and access products by consumers. Mr. Alberto Fonseca said here that in 2019 Portugal, being on the European Union's tail, would represent 40 % of online buyers. There are already preliminary analyses demonstrating that, during this pandemic period, there has been a growing increase — around 25 % — of online buyers, which makes us closer to the European Union average, which currently stands at 70 %, as mentioned above. Therefore, if this trend continues to occur, this will be the way forward. That is why it is pressing that there is a restructuring of VAT rules so that it is more adapted to what is intended, that is to say, to have a digital economy. The rules currently in force are insufficient and do not allow us to know when, how much and where VAT is collected, nor does it allow us to guarantee its effective settlement. With these regulatory initiatives, it is possible not only to strengthen confidence between Member States but also to promote cooperation between tax authorities themselves at national level. In addition to a reduction in bureaucracy, already mentioned here, using the single counter will allow companies to deal with their VAT obligations in a simpler way, through an online portal, and also a savings of EUR 2,5 billion per year at a global level. In public finances too, it will have its impact, already referred to here, of EUR 7 billion, not being a less important impulse to adopt these measures. For this fight, we have the example of accountability for large online markets. We must not forget those which are the major electronic platforms which will be responsible here for the collection of VAT on the sale of goods from companies which do not belong to the European Union make their sales to consumers in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. The important thing is that we are, in fact, walking towards the completion of these gaps that allow for the loss of tax revenue, depriving the countries of the European Union of funds that could be used for public services and for investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u148	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u149	Mr President, at the time of the discussion of the State budget, the Czech Republic presented a proposal for the reduction of VAT in gymnasiums, and this proposal was dropped. Mrs Vera Braz, the labour law has been used by the Socialist Party to block everything, only it does not use it for that purpose when it is not appropriate. The labor law, when, for example, the tragedy of the 2017 fires, was regulated, just as it was when there was a need to do by the Socialist Party. However, in this case, the labour law is imposed. Either way, everyone will vote according to their conscience when it comes to supporting gymnasiums, fitness clubs and all those who devote hours of their day to this activity so important to the health of Portuguese. Hundreds and hundreds of jobs are at stake. I take advantage of saying that the Arrival will also deliver, next week, a proposal to include benefits, within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) for those participating in this type of activity. We will see if the Socialist Party will not again invoke the law-work, when, a few months ago, its leader — I think it still stands — said that supporting physical activity was fundamental. It's always fundamental, except when you get to taxpayers' money. It's always fundamental! Open... [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u150	To close the debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take advantage of the suggestion of Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who seems quite good to me that, in the field of expertise, we can discuss this subject more deeply. It is that, after hearing Mr Duarte Alves' speech, I cannot help but say the following: e-commerce is a reality that exists. We can pretend that it does not exist and does nothing, but this proposal seeks to respond to an existing reality. And there is one subject to which, I think, the honourable Member is quite sensitive, which is this: the Member States of the European Union are currently losing about EUR 7 billion in VAT because of the exemption they make to imports of these products. And what we are doing with the transposition of this directive is ensuring that these small consignments are also liquidating VAT and paying VAT, like all other national companies or any other area of the European Union. This is important from the competitive point of view and also from the financial capacity of States to meet the various challenges they face. That is why I believe that, as you have identified, and well, the added obligations that are placed on electronic platforms, in the sense that doublely, either by having to have records of information for the purpose of tax inspections, or in terms of the solidarity responsibility that they have to pay to ensure the revenue of these Member States, are something significant and important, which Mr has valued and which, I think, may also be an entry door for the honourable Member to be able to value all the other amendments that are made here. It is that the Single Balkans, Member of the Commission, is not a concession to the European Union. The Single Market is a simplification that we are making so that someone who has a company within Portugal and wants to sell to any country of the European Union does not have to register in that country and can, calmly, from its home, within the country, deal with all its obligations, both declarations and VAT payments. So this is not alienating our tax sovereignty, this is a simplification process that saves many costs to companies. Moreover, according to the quantification made by the European Union, more than EUR 2000 million of costs are saved to companies. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a proposal that goes the right way, in order to make those who have to pay according to their contribution capacity pay, simplifying taxpayers' way of meeting their obligations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u152	Having concluded the joint discussion of the Bill No 40 / XIV / 1. a and draft Law No 388 / XIV / 1. a ( CH), we will generally consider Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — prolongs the deadline for an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities under the COVID-19 pandemic and amends the rules on indebtedness of local authorities. As we await the arrival of the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, I will ask Vice-President Edite Estrela to replace me in the presidency. [[At the moment, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]] Madam President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. To open the debate already announced by Mr President, I have the floor of the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been proven throughout the current crisis period, the action of municipalities with populations in combating pandemics and their social consequences is fundamental to the proximity and knowledge of their territories and populations. For this reason, the Government has proposed to this Parliament the adoption of an exceptional set of measures which have allowed, and must continue to allow, to increase the capacity and speed of response of local authorities in this area. It is in this context, and considering the economic and financial situation arising from the situation caused by the pandemic, that the Government has proposed the extension by 31 December 2020 of a set of measures aimed at promoting the smoothing of administrative procedures, simplifying the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities and ensuring that they are more liquid immediately, in particular, maintaining the eligibility of social and health expenditure for the purposes of the Municipal Social Fund and maintaining the exceptional moratorium regime within the framework of the municipal adjustment programmes. But, moreover, it is proposed to amend the limits of indebtedness of municipalities, by repealing for the years 2020 and 2021 the limitation of the use of 20 % of the available margin of indebtedness. And the amount of expenditure resulting from measures to promote social support to municipalities affected by the outbreak of COVID-19, as well as the acquisition of goods and services related to public health protection also did not relate to the limit of total debt. With this initiative, it is intended to prevent the response to the pandemic from compromising the fiscal consolidation effort promoted by the local administration within the framework of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, and also create conditions for the authorities to continue to be able to provide support to their populations and territories, as they have so effectively done so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u154	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u155	Mr President, Mrs Minister and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today, the Government brings us to the discussion a bill that presents a set of measures to ensure a greater capacity for action by municipalities in combating this health crisis, a matter on which the NAP has shown concern that it has cast on proposals. I would like to say that we follow the Government's proposal. Moreover, we recall that in March the NAP proposed that expenditure on combating the health crisis and its impacts should not be counted on the debt limits, so that no municipality would cease to provide answers due to lack of resources. on this occasion, PS, PSD and CDS-PP voted against and PCP, CH and IL abstained, making this proposal unfeasible. But fortunately, and for the benefit of the people, some of these parties have already changed their mind. We have also expressed concern about the need for local legislation, approved in times of COVID-19, to extend over time. The Government here proposes this, for example, to short, medium and long-term loans, exemptions or support for vulnerable people, and we obviously follow this concern. But we also note the following: these measures must be extended to the parish. It is necessary to extend these exceptional measures in order to cover other social support which are being played by the parish itself and which are not included in the exceptional scheme. We all know that the role of the parish in proximity policies is fundamental. Thus, in order to facilitate and speed up the response to this social, economic, health and environmental crisis, we will propose, as a specialist, this recognition of the role of the parish. We also remember that, in the Supplementary Budget, there was no significant measure of support for the parish and this bill goes on that same path, which we are concerned about. In fact, it is clear that some French have suspended their social support services. Therefore, on the side of the NAP, we once again express our willingness to work out solutions in which the work of the parish and the authorities is recognized. Finally, I just wanted to say the following: even though in the Government's proposal the expenditure of the municipalities is eligible for the Municipal Social Fund, which we consider to be positive, that is insufficient. The NAP has been calling on the Government to substantially strengthen the funds of this Fund, since it was underfinanced at EUR 35 million in relation to the value provided for in the law. ANMP (National Association of Portuguese Municipalities) came here to tell us all that. But in the Supplementary Budget, the Government has chosen not to strengthen the Municipal Social Fund by creating only one working group with ANMP to reach a conclusion, which we all already know. The NAP, in the discussion, in the specialty, of the Supplementary Budget, proposed this reinforcement. However, this proposal was cast with the votes against the PS and the consistent abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, IL and arrive. Which means that this enlargement which is proposed to us by the Government is a positive step. But without strengthening this Fund, it seems to us insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Isura Morais, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u157	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: At the beginning of April, on behalf of the PSD bench, and in this House, I made an intervention on a proposal for a government law with several exceptional measures addressed to local authorities in the context of the public health emergency caused by COVID-19. Much of what he said remains current. on that day, I saluted all the autarchs for, at this difficult time, as always, and as now, they are on the ground taking such important, most important and fundamental measures for the lives of their populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u158	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u159	To all the autoarchs I again leave my sincere thanks, on behalf of the PSD bench, for the essential service they have always provided and continue to lend to our communities. [[PSD applause.]] In the midst of so many uncertainties, one thing we can be sure of: local power does not fail the populations. At that time, we welcome the Government's initiative to address issues of the greatest importance in such a difficult situation. We also now welcome this new initiative which reinforces the effects by 31 December 2020 of a set of measures that they have sought and seek to expedite and simplify administrative procedures for local authorities and inter-municipal authorities. I also considered at the time that the government could have gone further. Since the first hour, the PSD has appealed to the Government to that effect. And for most of the reasons, it remains current what he said: the government could review our criteria for local administration and not disregard the autarchs. They lack information, more access to data and more means.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u160	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u161	I recall that the PSD presented in this House a number of proposals addressed to the authorities, some approved and improved legislation. But others, such as the possibility of deducting the value of the benefits to the Municipal Support Fund from the acquisition of equipment, goods and services in the fight against the effects of the pandemic, or the extension of the layoff to municipal enterprises, have unfortunately been plunged. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislation addressed to the authorities was limited to a set of diplomas which made a mere adjustment aimed at adapting the local administration to the extraordinary circumstances of the COVID-19. No measures have been taken to contribute to effective and necessary support for the liquidity of the authorities and to mitigate the enormous financial effort they have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u163	We live very challenging times, in which the authorities, who have been and are, a great support in crisis situations, cannot now enter into crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u164	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u165	I shall finish, Madam President, but not before saying that the minimum that can be expected from the Government is to allow the autarchs to have the means for the work they do and to get closer to the populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u166	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u167	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The bill we are discussing today aims to extend, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to prolong the validity of some extraordinary measures that have to do with the pandemic. For us, it is clear that the authorities, whether the chambers or the parish, have played a key role in combating the pandemic—I would even say: they have not, they have! — and, therefore, it seems clear to me that some extraordinary measures will have to be taken here. in the same way, when we talk about some of them for the first time, we made it clear that, yes, they were extraordinary measures. in a reasonable or ordinary situation they would not be understandable, but at present they are necessary. And, therefore, we do not oppose them. However, I would like to understand two things. The first is why they were not presented in the supplementary or amending budget, as they want to call it, which was where it would seem to make sense. The second is whether the government has any estimate of what they will mean, because if it is true that they are necessary, we also need to understand what is happening from a financial point of view. Finally, I would also like to know the following: the last time we discussed a similar issue, the CDS put forward a proposal not only for the authorization of extraordinary indebtedness, but for the authorization that, extraordinaryly, some authorities that wish to do so might not charge the IMI (municipal property tax) this year. It was then at the beginning of May — the month of collection of the IMI — and it seems clear to me that for some families this payment was extremely difficult. I would like to know if at least the first payments are already made, in some cases all payments. I would also like to know whether, from a fiscal point of view, there is some openness by the Government so that, in the same way that we have opened exceptions for the authorities — and in the same way that the central State has opened exceptions to the collection of certain taxes — this can also happen in terms of municipal taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u168	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister : The Government today brings to the discussion a proposal which essentially extends a set of exceptional measures already approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. On this proposal, we would like to make three points. First of all, the Minister, in her speech, set the objective of this proposal to increase the capacity and speed of response by the authorities. We also recognise, of course, the important role that the authorities have played in combating the outbreak, as well as the intervention they have had in their municipalities, although we consider that they should not be placed under the responsibility of the authorities that are not theirs, which are from the government and thus also transfer charges to the authorities. In fact, this was already one of the issues we wanted to leave here too in this regard, because there are problems that are national and that require a comprehensive response. We can set an example of the concerns raised about distance learning, in which it should not be on the backs of the authorities who must bear the responsibilities and charges relating to these matters. The Minister said that increased capacity and speed of response would allow for greater liquidity immediately. And it was precisely with this assumption that the CFP has been intervening, because we believe that the economic and financial balance of the authorities must be ensured and safeguarded. We have already put forward a number of proposals to that end. In addition, in the Supplementary Budget we presented a proposal to increase transfers from the State budget to the Financial Balance Fund and the Municipal Social Fund. In fact, by complying with what the government did not do in the Local Finance Act, which we do not agree with either, but which in the context of recovery would allow for a greater transfer of these same funds and the Municipal Social Fund by 2%. This was not the choice on the part of the Socialist Party and on the part of the PSD, which effectively made this proposal impossible. But this, yes, would have been a relevant way to strengthen the capacity of the municipalities right now. This is the second aspect we wanted to put. The third aspect is related to the Municipal Social Fund. The Government extends a set of measures providing for the expansion of expenditure under this Municipal Social Fund, but does not extend the funds of the same Fund. In addition, not 2 % of the arithmetic average of IRS, IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) and VAT are met. And how does the Minister intend, in fact, to reconcile these objectives by extending the costs that may be included there without extending the amounts? We wanted to leave these records because we believe that for the purpose that the government here has set to ensure liquidity, in fact there is still a way to go and there is a need to equip the authorities, through...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u170	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u171	I'm done now, Madam President. As I was saying, there is a need at this stage and at the moment to provide the authorities with the means, including the financial resources, to ensure and fulfil their powers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u172	Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u173	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The Bill No 34 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), in general terms, allows the expenditure of the authorities under COVID-19 to be carried out by 31 December 2020, extending the period which in some situations has already ended on 30 June. On the other hand, it allows the rules on the limit of indebtedness of the authorities in the years 2020 and 2021 to be changed. It makes all the sense, and, taking into account the current situation, we shall vote in favour. However, I intend to make two comments. One is about Article 2. this proposal when referring to amendments to Article 52. Law No 73 / 2013 - Total debt limit : « 1 - The provisions of Article 52 ( 3 ( b ). the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September, in its current wording, does not apply in the years 2020 and 2021. Do not keep on seeking. ” Question: Why not delete all this point? It is that by continuing to apply point ( a ), municipalities continue to have the obligation—in case of failure to meet the debt limit of 1, 5 times the average net revenue—to reduce in the subsequent financial year at least 10 % of the excess amount. In 2021, it is not expected that municipalities will already be able to reduce the excess debt. from there we are defenders that the whole point should be removed. The FAM ( Municipal Support Fund ) is a financial recovery mechanism for municipalities, but in many cases it is serving as a garrote. At the time of the discussion on the speciality of the State budget we presented budgetary rebalancing and debt restructuring measures, which were rejected, in particular by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u174	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u175	Another issue, and in a more comprehensive perspective, not wanting to make, from now on, a balance sheet of the response to COVID-19, should be assumed that in the social area, in support of the most fragile people, children and older people, the local public response is that it can be better achieved so as not to leave anyone behind. This implies redefining the role of authorities in creating / managing day care centers, children, day care centers. This crisis also shows the importance of new perspectives regarding urban planning, an interconcile articulation and media complementation, a greater interconnection with other areas of knowledge in territorial management, a new strategy on public space, on mobility, on green spaces. We believe that it is time to make this debate and this reformulation. All of this should lead the government and political forces to a deeper reflection on how the organization of territories can better respond to pandemics and other risks, such as climate change, with which societies today are increasingly confronted. In fact, we run the risk of having intermittent pandemics. It is important, and in this way, to open a debate capable of drawing attention to the need to rethink the competences and their funding of the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u176	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u177	I'm done now, Madam President. We think it is urgent to rethink the current decentralization/municipalization model and design an integrated spatial planning model. After all, what is the territorial management model that the government defends and intends to implement? We need a new paradigm of conception of the intermediate powers that intercede between the national and the local, in a supramunicipal vision, on the one hand, and subnational, on the other. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u178	Mr Nuno Sá, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u179	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: With regard to the debate of this legislative initiative of the Government, it is important to expressly acknowledge the action of the local authority which, with its proximity to the people, has played an essential role in combating the pandemic of the COVID-19, either in front of public health protection, support for the economy or social solidarity. The Government is well aware of the need to maintain itself and, in fact, to be able to increase the capacity and speed of response of local authorities to the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the infection of COVID-19, but also the need to ensure the risk of deterioration of the financial situation of municipalities as a result of the application of additional measures that the authorities have promoted in the face of the effects of the pandemic crisis. Thus, the initiative now presented aims to extend the deadline by the end of the year an exceptional scheme of measures applicable to local authorities within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic, and to amend the rules on indebtedness of local authorities, without losing sight of the need to maintain good public accounts in local authorities as well. It also aims to promote the smoothing of administrative procedures and the simplification of the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. We welcome and support this proposal for government law, because it is thus possible to maintain the legal framework, from the financial point of view, appropriate so that local authorities can adopt the measures necessary to continue to have the best conditions and resources to overcome the multiple difficulties and needs of this very difficult and demanding time and which calls for exceptional measures as long as the pandemic lasts. Government, local authorities, state administration, society and Portuguese have since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, known to unite and work together to overcome this greatest challenge of our lives. Let's continue along this path. Here too, in Parliament, while maintaining our own political identities, and taking on each of our different responsibilities, we will have to be able to honour the efforts and sacrifices of our fellow citizens with the construction and approval of the best legislative initiatives and solutions that these moments call for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u180	The Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration has the floor to address the closure of the debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me reiterate the role of the intervention of the local authorities, which all here have stressed and which I also reiterate, but in a logic of close partnership with the State and not in a logic of substitution or reduction of the role of the State which has not been and which we reject here. What we do is create the conditions for, in respect of local autonomy, the authorities can continue to be great partners of the State, as they have so far been. I want to leave three additional notes to say that the GEF moratorium is worth about EUR 47 million. And as for the Municipal Social Fund, I wanted to tell you something. Members: I would like to remind you that it has been included in the Budget to supplement the establishment of a working group, which is already in place and which will meet for the coming week in order to establish the values of the Social Fund, taking into account the new eligible expenditure. Moreover, the 2020 findings will be taken into account in transfers to the Municipal Social Fund in the State budget for 2021. This aspect is very important because these correctness, I repeat, will be taken into account in the State Budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u182	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this debate. We will move on to the seventh point of the agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the Drafts of Law Nos 1236 / XIII / 4. a ( Citizens) — End with the allocation of financial support by public entities for the realization of Tauromachic activities, 22 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Prevents public funding for Tauromachic shows, 243 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that inflict physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death, 257 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By not using public money for financing Tauromachic activities and 468 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Prevents the use of public money for direct or indirect financing of Tauromachic activities. To present the Green Bill, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands of citizens who have made use of this important instrument of our democracy, which is a participatory one, which is the right of the citizens' legislative initiative. We appreciate the democracy involved, the involvement of citizens in the legislative process and therefore deserve our recognition. Today, in this House, once again, the theme of the tourdas is discussed, a theme so sensitive to those who do not identify themselves and who ask that it end, as to those who do not imagine to see the end of this activity decreed. Sensitious animals are capable of feeling, demonstrating and communicating affection, pain, pleasure or compassion and, therefore, a set of specific rights and meriting their regulatory protection mechanisms are provided for in our legal order. We know that this is not a question of unanimity. The loss of traditions rooted with some populations in our country, if not to begin in ourselves, if it does not happen as a natural social evolution and mentalities, which leads to spontaneously rejecting these practices and replacing them with others, will always be seen as a violent intrusion into their identity space. The extreme of positions in this matter may lead one to win over others, but it will never lead to the conviction of the overcome. We know the arguments of those who defend bull races, from the popular tradition, to the economy and jobs, or by maintaining the subspecies of the fauna, ending in the environment itself, by the creation of the brave cattle being made in extensive and mounted regime. Unfortunately, we have already come to sell cars, to defend tourist enterprises, golf courses or dam water mirrors in the last wild rivers of the country, also calling for their pseudo-environmental advantages. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] In the foundations of political ecology lies the intransigent defense of the planet, the ecosystems and the environmental balance, on which life on Earth depends, and also the safeguard of all the wildlife and the rich biodiversity that we have inherited and we want to transmit to future generations. Alongside this defense, comes the defense of the animals that share our space and daily life, including the domestic, company, work, or those from which the human being withdraws food, which are deserving of differentiated attention, because this greater proximity brings with it specific problems and at the same time a self-responsive responsibility that has to be fully assumed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, society should walk towards the abandonment of practices that are not compatible with the status of protection, recognised throughout the world, animals, recognizing also that with the highest intellectual capacity of the human being, from which the immense and sometimes dangerous power it holds comes, necessarily an inalienable duty and a crushing responsibility to respect the other animals, the non-human beings, because only in the last instance does respect their own humanity. Unfortunately, changing mentalities is sometimes too slow in recognizing and assigning importance to this matter. And, therefore, we cannot fail to remember the role that formal and informal education can and should play in the formation of future generations, promoting direct contact with animals, knowledge, understanding and respect for them. Bullfighting, even if under the prism of a so-called ‘cultural spectacle’, can only be recognised as involving an effective dose of violence, aggression, animal suffering and even permanent risk of death for the bullfighter, as is assumed by the bullfighters themselves. Therefore, what we cannot really continue to ignore is that it does not have to be all Portuguese to pay, with public money, touring through support or subsidies that are allocated to companies and individuals in the context of Tauromachic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u184	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u185	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. The Greens present a bill aimed at blocking public funding to tourists. We believe that being this is an unrespecting activity of animal welfare, it cannot depend on public funding.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u186	To submit Bill No. 243 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to start by valuing the legislative initiative that we have here today and that, by the initiative of more than 25 000 citizens and citizens, we are allowed to discuss and decide again on public funding to bullomachia. I would also like to thank the associations, particularly the animal promoter, who has been intervening in this area for decades, bringing information on the aggressiveness and dependence of the support of the State of the business concerned. What we are discussing here today is a regime of exclusivity and exception to the Tauromachic sector, which is still going on for so many years. Except because we have a animal protection law that has been prohibiting all unjustified violence against animals since 1995 and which is the exception of bullfighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u188	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u189	Except for the fact that few cultural sectors have access to the transmission, at a noble time, in RTP 1 — I do not remember documentaries, plays, among other activities, with this privilege. Until quite a short time ago, tourists had a more favourable VAT scheme than most of the Portuguese population. Tell me, then, if that is not privilege! That is why the initiatives we are discussing today have gained a majority support in society and in the scientific community, because of course there is a majority of the population that is not fanciful and another large part of the population that is even against this type of activity. [[The polls don't say that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u190	This is why it is strange that support is still maintained for violent activities that have spectators in the order of 600 000 people per year and developed in only 20 % of the country, in 60 municipalities. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo and PSD Members.]] In addition, more than 70 % of the activities in the Tauromachy are the bull races that have nothing to do with popular parties, which often intend to make believe that they are the main activities benefited by the support. To have the notion, of the 174 shows carried out in 2019, only 50 were not bull races. This is therefore a logical step and a long-term choice of public policy. We're not talking about bans, we're just talking about not encouraging...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u191	They didn't even talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u192	... and not favour violence as a state policy and public policy through funding to which science has already shown to be harmful to humans and animals, because, yes, it is recognized the violent and aggressive character of tourists, not only for animals who are forced to participate in these activities, as for people, and no parliamentary group here can object to this reality. [[PS's, PS's and CDS-PP's deputies.]] Aggressiveness is visible and proven, in addition to the various accidents we witness every year, with deaths and injuries of people and animals. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] This is also why the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child urged Portugal to — and I read: « Set the minimum age for participation and assistance in bull bullfighting, including in bullfighting schools in 18 years without exception, and raise awareness among government officials, the press and the general population about negative effects on children, including as spectators of violence associated with bullfighting and release. » But to raise awareness is the same: not to encourage through public support. [[Protests from PS and PSD Members.]] Once again, it's not just for the animals, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is for the people, since neither this basic recommendation do the amateurs correspond, repeatedly disregarding the minimum age regulated at this time in Portugal for attendance at shows, established in the 12 years. It is time to have the courage to limit public policies to encourage violence activities. That's what we're asked here this afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u193	To submit Bill No 257 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the more than 25 000 people who have signed the legislative initiative of citizens promoted by the Animal Association, whose main promoter is present here. What is being discussed today are policy options regarding how taxpayers' money is spent. We are talking about an activity that should never have been financed or benefited by the State, even less at an unprecedented economic and social crisis. How many times have we not heard say, in this House, that there is no money to reduce the monthlyity of foster care to families who need it, that there is no money to support students who do not have a computer at home, that there is no money to extend the social rate of electricity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u195	That's demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u196	... there is no money to guarantee the existence of social support to artists, as there is no money to strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS ), according to your needs,... [[Protests of PS and CDS-PP Members.]] ...and less money is available to reinforce the necessary risk subsidies, among so many other examples that we could give. For these cases, PS and PSD invoke the law-work and also invoke Mrs and Mrs. Members, the need for budgetary stability, leaving behind measures of the most basic social and economic justice. Now for the bullfighting, there's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u197	That's demagogy and populism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u198	And we've never heard of the law-work! It is two pesos and two measures. Ladies and gentlemen, with so many sacrifices that have been imposed on the country, allow, through direct or indirect funding, benefits and exemptions, to remain connected to the public money machine an activity strongly challenged by civil society and which promotes violence,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ...is an absolutely incomprehensible social injustice and a political option of a regime that was overthrown in April 1974. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Madam President, I am very sorry, but I believe that the PS will have the opportunity to speak, and I would therefore appreciate that the honourable Member calmed down so that I could continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the parts are regiments, but I would ask that they create conditions for the honourable Member to speak and be heard. Please continue, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u200	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is indeed an incomprehensible political option and, in our view, a regime that was destroyed in April 1974. Even more so when, in modern times, we have heard instances such as the UN (United Nations) urge Portugal to move children and young people away from the violence of bullomachia. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have an exceptional opportunity to explain your priorities to Portuguese and Portuguese. The Tauromachia, an unsustainable activity that has survived at the expense of subsidies and various public support, and which, for the most part, is responsible for the ill-treatment, suffering and death of thousands of animals, every year, in our country? Oh, my God! Moreover, this cruelty is assumed by the legislator himself, recognizing that it is an activity that questions animals and causes them suffering, but that, incomprehensiblely, decides to exempt them. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] in this House of Democracy it is important to speak in data, but it is also essential to discuss ethics, values and, of course, political options for the allocation of funds, which cannot be bypassed in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u201	We needed the PAN to learn! [[Rice from PSD deputy Fernanda Velez.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u202	Even because the realization of tours in Portugal depends on support that could and should be used in a more useful and ethical way. We refer to subsidies for the creation of bulls, the transmission of bull races on Portuguese public television, the support of the authorities, which pass through the acquisition of tickets, the construction and rehabilitation of bull squares, by advertising, by bull schools. See the example of Vila Franca de Xira, who spends more than 270 000 € annually in support of Tauromach activity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u203	Long live Vila Franca!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u204	... of which 60 000 € go to a "school" of bullfighting, in the wake of the UN! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, how do we have exemptions, such as the one that benefits, for example, the Small Camp Tour Square, amounting to EUR 9 million / year — repeat, EUR 9 million / year? Oh, my God! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] In more than two decades we have already exceeded EUR 198 million! How long does the Assembly continue to ignore this reality? It is, in fact, a matter that needs to be settled! Until when will we continue to have, with the high patronage of the State, a cruel activity that does not take place in the 21st century? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u205	“ Exercise Faith ” — Why? Oh, my God! What's that?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u206	There is an entire moving society that asks Parliament for ethical and civilizational advances that do not match...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u207	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u208	I conclude now, Madam President. As I was saying, there is an entire moving society that asks Parliament for ethical and civilizational advances, that do not coincide with the maintenance of this activity, even less with its financing, but there is still a majority of conservative parties that remain behind the backs of citizens and also for animal suffering. It's not acceptable or fair...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u209	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u210	I conclude now, Madam President. It is neither acceptable nor fair that these citizens have to contribute financially to a show that is far from consensual in society and the Portuguese State cannot continue to give it oxygen bombs with public money. Not with our money and less at the cost of animal suffering! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u211	To submit Bill No. 468 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor to Mrs Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u212	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, we are here to discuss whether or not to fund, with public money, the Tauromach events, this time with the added importance of this due to the initiative of citizens, to whom we have already thanked, with a special recognition of the non-governmental organizations who have done excellent work in this area, as is the case of Animal. Tauromachy is no longer a controversial activity. There is also a minority, which is representative in this Parliament, which defends it, but, on the other hand, there is a significant majority of Portuguese who strongly opposes its existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u213	In theory!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u214	However, in a country with limited resources, the State should be able to manage the financial resources available in the best way, giving priority to the essential sectors. in this context, knowing that much need to be done in areas such as health, education, employment, social protection, agriculture and the dynamization of the rural world, will the state, in particular through local authorities, continue to financially support an activity that no longer receives the benefit and interest of most Portuguese? Oh, my God! We believe that the state money, the money that is from all of us, should be spent on activities of public interest. Recently, the City Council of Lisbon approved a motion urging the Assembly of the Republic to adopt legislation that does not allow public funding for events that cause animal suffering. in a survey of the Catholic University, in Lisbon, 75% of the respondents said they were against the use of public money to finance the tours. We know that the country is not only Lisbon, but the truth is that other examples will be added to our territory. Without prejudice to the position adopted in relation to Tauromachy, the truth is that more and more understanding is that the public record should not be used to finance an activity that does not comply with international guidelines or national legislation on animal rights and in which animal suffering is accepted as mere fun, as is the result of the citizens' initiative now under discussion. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] An empathic country does not applaud animal suffering. Culture elevates us and represents us as a people, not bullfighting! And even it can be said that the Tauromachia may represent some Portuguese, but clearly it does not represent the Portuguese people and certainly does not represent me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u215	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are those who like touring, there are those who don't like touring. They're both in your right. But when the issue is public funding of a public activity, even if everyone likes, the position of a liberal is clear: the State must be neutral and should not attribute public support to that activity. In fact, it will not be surprising if I tell you that the Liberal Initiative does not look carefully at the allocation of public support, especially financial support, to most of these activities. This has nothing to do with activities, it has to do with the management of the public thing and the non-interference and neutrality of the state as to the free choice of people. If there are tax exemptions, then they apply to all activities. If there are subsidies, then they end up for all activities and make good use of the money saved for the essential functions of the State. They say that there is support for Tauromakia — it is not quite clear the accounts, but we will admit that they are true — about EUR 16 million. For, quite well, that amount had already arrived, for example, to pay the wages of firemen in the fight against rural fires, which the government, in the middle of fires, had forgotten to provide.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u217	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u218	The State must focus on its essential functions and leave people and their choices in peace. It is not because I like my activities, private ones, that I have the right to require the State to use other Portuguese money to subsidize my tastes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u219	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u220	Of course, Madam President. When the state usurps the right to impose a taste or a morale on me, it is taking the first step to impose everything else on me. We won't allow him to start taking that path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u221	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives under discussion today are aimed at preventing the use of public money for financing Tauromachic activities. The PSD Parliamentary Group respects the diversity of views, but believes that we are faced with a number of arguments which do not correspond to the reality of the facts. I'll give you a few examples. The first argument is that Tauromachy is an industry that has been losing public over the last few decades. However, the data contained in the Report on Tauromáquic Activity, IGAC ( General Inspection of Cultural Activities ), relating to 2019, refer exactly to the contrary :... [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u223	... there was an increase in bullfighting by about 11 %; a total of 383,900 spectators were recorded; the average number of spectators per show was approximately 2200, reaching the second highest value of the decade; in 2019 there was an increase in the number of spectators for the third consecutive year, after a decrease observed during the previous six years. The second argument is that of opposition to bullfighting by public opinion. [[PS and PAN protests.]] In December 2019, Eurosondage conducted a national consultation on tourdas. The results were...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u224	Mrs. Member, excuse me. Wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u225	It's a real bullfight, Madam President!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u226	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for speakers to speak. [[PSD applause.]] It applies to all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Please proceed, Mrs Fernanda Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u227	I said that in December 2019 Eurosondage made a national consultation, underlining, a national consultation on tourdas. The results were as follows: 86, 7% of the Portuguese are not against the touradas; 70, 5 % of the Portuguese consider that the disappearance of the touradas would be very serious or serious. Naturally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not referring to a local survey, with questions as far as the answers are concerned. [[NAP protests.]] Another indicator is the broadcasts of tourdas at the RTP ( Portuguese Radiotelevision ), which are leaders of audiences, which reveals the strong support of Portuguese to this cultural sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u228	You're talking right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u229	The third argument is that of the support for bullfighting. If there is cultural activity that is not supported by the State is exactly the bull machia, which does not receive any support from the Ministry of Culture. In the case of taxes, including VAT, Tauromachy pays more than other cultural activities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u230	It's true, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u231	On the spot, some municipalities support Tauromáchic activities, which is exclusively in the sphere of autonomy conferred on them by the Constitution and the cultural matrix of many municipalities. [[PSD applause.]] These funds constitute an investment rather than a expenditure, as the bull maquia attracts about half a million spectators annually in bull markets and about 2, 5 million in popular street actions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no European funding for bullfighting. We can, then, conclude, claiming that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u232	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u233	I'm done now, Madam President. We can conclude by stating that the assessment of the Portuguese people, in view of the data we have now presented, shows well that the Tauromachy constitutes an activity of special historical, cultural and socio-economic relevance... [[Protests of BE Members.]] ... in several municipalities and regions of our country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u234	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u235	... so you will have to benefit from the support inherent in other cultural activities. Olé! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u236	For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the subscribers of this citizens' legislative initiative. In fact, bullfighting and bullfighting have sparked intense debate in Portuguese society and, although today the existence or prohibition of bullfighting is not on the table, this is the fundamental issue that divides opinions. As we have said, on several occasions when the debate went through Parliament, the CFP does not understand that this is a matter that is settled by the legislative way, until, because such different concepts and views are at stake, it is difficult to come up with a solution that respects the different positions by law. Man's relationship with animals has evolved significantly, and this is also evident in our country. Culture, traditions and customs are not immutable and expressions of popular culture, such as the generality of the elements of human culture, are themselves the product of social life and are altered with it. What is certain is that they are not extinguished by decree or by force and what is the responsibility of the State is to guarantee space for all expressions of this popular culture, in respect for the identity and diversity of populations, at the same time that it must promote the protection of nature and biodiversity, inciting a culture of harmony with the environment. But never by force! In fact, in Portugal there is a sad history of attempts to impose bans on Tauromachic activities, which simply stressed positions, resulted in repression and violence against the populations, even leading to a backlog of the law. Regardless of what each person may have, and there are thousands of people to whom this practice offends, shocks and revolts, there are also thousands who feel it as an integral part of their culture and identity. the same way there are thousands of people in Portugal who would like all the Tauromachic manifestations to be definitively abolished, there are thousands for whom the idea of abolishing or prohibiting the tourdas and other practices is unthinkable, offensive and agrade, because it is an integral part of their lives at various levels. This sensitivity varies a great deal from land to land and the truth is that even parties who defend the abolition of the tours in Parliament did not dare do so at the level of local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u239	The Tauromachy is so rooted among some communities that even the parties here proposed its prohibition, defend the Tauromachy in these localities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u240	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u241	And that is exactly what we are talking about: respect and tolerate the different realities and different visions. Specifically about the projects under discussion today, because we are not here to discuss our views on the tour, the public support for the tours is not national or from the central state. They are essentially determined and granted support at the level of the authorities, either through support for associations and events, or through the transfer of spaces and other resources. If in a particular village or locality the bullfighting is an installed reality and a rooted practice, it is natural that the means of the same locality are at the disposal of the population and are made available to promote the activities that the same community understands. [[Congrats from PSD MP João Moura.]] Even because the intervention of the Authority is often the guarantor of the security of these events, by the placement of trunks, for example, or the transfer of other resources, which would become illegal with these projects. For these reasons, because we reject prohibitionisms and legal impositions, because we believe that changing habits and customs takes place on the ground and not on the law, because we do not accept that under any pretext the autonomy of local power is called into question, we reject the projects under discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u242	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u243	I'm done now, Madam President. As we have already said several times, the defense of ecosystems and animal welfare is done with and not against populations, under the penalty of obtaining the reverse result. And that is our commitment. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u244	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tauromakia is culture. It is therefore within the framework of the Ministry of Culture and is inspected by IGAC, which has competence in this area. And there can be no two cultures in Portugal. There's one, or there's no one. There cannot be those of the culture benefited and those of the culture not benefited. But it was important to know, here, how some people who are here are going to explain to thousands of workers—they are thousands of jobs—in the Alentejo, in the Ribatejo, in the Third Island, in the Azores, the end of public support for Tauromachia. It is important that the Azores, which are going to the elections soon, know who is on the side of their industry and who is against. [[BE's protests.]] We have created a terrible rule in Portugal, which is to want to end everything we don't like. I, for example, am Benfica. If I could end up with some opponents, but I can't. [[Laughing.]] [[BE and PAN protests.]] It's life, it's life! Learn how to live with it! If I could end up with some of those who argue with Benfica that hypothesis, but I don't do it! Admit it. In life, we have to understand the differences. Tauromachy is culture and tradition. [[BE and PAN protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u246	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u247	I know Benfica is really messing with the House, but I can't finish and so I ask him to let me finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u248	You also don't have much moral to complain about, because you are often also taking a step aside. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for each speaker to make his speech. Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u249	Thank you, Madam President. I will even finish by saying this: we have created the habit of monitoring everything we don't like. This is the first step to end the bullfighting. If these initiatives are approved, we should be aware of those thousands of unemployed people, the industries destroyed throughout the country, without any return.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u250	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate and this issue are not new. Now in the version to ban, purely and simply, in the version of cutting support, or in the version of increasing taxes, this is another attack on bull maquis and Tauromachic reality. On this subject, I leave here 10 simple ideas. First of all, Tauromachy is an ancient cultural and traditional expression in Portugal. Secondly, it is a tradition deeply rooted in the rural world, particularly in Ribatejo and Alentejo. What if the majority's argument were true—which is not—so would we ban a minority's way of life? It would be even more shocking. Thirdly, more than a tradition, Tauromachy is a way of life for thousands of Portuguese. Among peasants, farmers, bulldozers, forged, is a way of life for thousands and thousands of Portuguese. Fourthly, it is a legal, regulated activity that cannot therefore be discriminated against. And if RTP transmits it, it's probably because it has audiences. Fifthly, negative discrimination would obviously be a form of censorship and imposition of a dictatorship of taste and, as such, absolutely unconstitutional. What is more, the Tauromachia is legal and, when we discuss here the ban on peat — I cannot say by colour the majority — it will have been 90 % that dropped that ban. If 90 % have dropped the ban, if it is legal, how do you now want to discriminate against bullfighting in relation to other cultural activities? On the other hand, it is false, as has already been said, and well, that it has lost viewers. No, not only does it not lose how you win spectators and you get audiences. On the other hand — and I am already in the eighth argument — there are neither European support nor State support for bullfighting, which, moreover, has been negatively discriminated against. It was 23 % VAT against all other cultural activities and even the interruption and prohibition of shows during this pandemic period. Ninth argument: if there is support, these support is municipal. What do you want? Ladies and gentlemen? To ban the Town Hall parties? Prohibiting the Incarnate Collection Festivals, what should be happening right now? That's not what the Left Block did in Salvaterra de Magos, when it had its illustrious authentic experience, and that's not what The Greens say, within their CDU involvement, in the municipalities that are of the CDU. [[BE's protests.]] [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Finally, Madam President, I would like to say two things: we are against the prohibition and the arguments of the prohibition we have heard here are always the arguments of demagogy, the arguments of populism and the arguments of radicalism. We are, yes, for freedom of choice, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, whether she wants or does not want. [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u252	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u253	I shall finish, Madam President, if you will allow me, in 10 seconds, with a tribute. Last Sunday, Mário Rabbit died. Who was Mário Rabbit? Mário Coelho was a figure of Portuguese culture. Mário Coelho, for those who use the argument of civilization here, deprived — do you know with whom Mrs. Deputy? — with barbarians and incivilized.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u254	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u255	Barbarians like Hemingway, barbarians like Ava Gardner, barbarians like Orson Welles and was even portrayed by this enormous incivilized named Pablo Picasso. That destroys your argument of civilization. Tauromachy is culture and is an unforgettable form of Portuguese cultural expression! [[Congrats from the CDS, PSD Members and PS Deputies Luís Moreira Testa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u256	All right! There is no good culture and bad culture! There's culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u257	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha spoke for one speech from the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we appreciate five parliamentary initiatives, namely the Bills Nos 1236 / XIII / 4. a, citizen initiative, 22 / XIV / 1. a, of the Ecological Party « The Greens », 243 / XIV / 1. a, Left Block, 257 / XIV / 1. the, of the Animal Party and Nature, and 468 / XIV / 1. a, of the Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues. They all have a common objective: to prevent public financial support for tauromachic shows. at this time, I would like to mention a part of the explanatory statement of the initiative presented by the ENP, when it refers to and assumes 'this is not a question that collects unanimity. The debate of certain traditions rooted with some populations in our country, if not assumed by themselves, if it does not occur as natural social evolution and mentalities that leads to spontaneously rejecting these practices and replacing them with others, will always be seen as violent intrusion into their identity space. The extreme of positions in this matter may lead one to win over others, but it will never lead to the conviction of the overcome." [[Congrats from PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u259	This consideration is lucid and also demonstrates that at many times it pollutes the discussion and hinders any understanding between different forms of analysis on the same subject, often resorting to manipulation of information and numbers distorting the truth of the facts. Therefore, it should be noted and clarified that although the superintendence of Tauromachic shows belongs to the Ministry of Culture through the General Inspection of Cultural Activities, no subsidies or financial support are allocated to Tauromachic shows by that Ministry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u260	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u261	More: Tauromachic shows pay rates, planned and regulated, and I remind you of the recent situation of the VAT rate for this same type of events. I repeat, by the Ministry of Culture, there are no funds allocated to support for Tauromachic activities, nor are there any European support for the same purpose. Public support is, in most cases, from the local authorities, within the autonomy which the law gives them for this purpose and which we are always invoking.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u262	Apply to the cameras, win the cameras and change the supports there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u263	Initiatives such as the present have a single end which we all already understand, but, according to the Constitution of the Republic, access to arts and culture must be ensured equally for all citizens, safeguarding that this right is carried out in equal conditions for all Portuguese, in any part of the country, regardless of their taste. We agree that some practices may be altered and even improved, counting on, of course, the evolution of mentalities and keeping firm respect for the individual choice of each one, as we invoke every day when we refer to the freedom of choice and the democracy in which we live and which has so much cost us to conquer. [[Congratulations from the PS and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u264	Freedom and democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u265	We have reached the end of this debate. We will move on to the eighth point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill Nos 133 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy — Decree-Law No 111 / 2017 of 31 August 2017, the first amendment to the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime — Decree-Law No 110 / 2017 of 31 August — and the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first — Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February —, 462 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and 463 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, in order to value workers together with the Resolution Project No 551 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government regulate the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the CFP wants to greet and greet the representative committee of the subscribed citizens and, through it, also to greet the more than 20,000 electorate citizens who, by their initiative, have managed to bring to the Assembly of the Republic a legislative initiative which is one more step in a struggle of more than 20 years. The position of the CFP in matters relating to professional careers is known. The CFP believes that the discussion, replacement, modification and creation of new careers in the Public Administration is a subject of collective bargaining between the representative organisations of workers and the Government. This must involve workers and their representative organisations in a serious and effective process. We have always denounced and demanded compliance with this constitutional right. However, in a situation like this that we are dealing with, in which the Government refused to continue collective bargaining and did not consider the proposals and demands of these health professionals, we cannot fail to intervene to defend the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, users and the National Health Service. It is in this sense that we follow this initiative with a bill that is no more than the commitment that we assume to continue working to defend the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy, their rights and, above all, the right to a career that values and dignity them. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be taken into account that the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, published in 2017, was not accompanied by their diploma which should define the transition criteria as well as their remuneration table. When the government left to regulate matters as important as the transition, the wage table and even the evaluation system, it would have been forgotten, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Of course it wasn't. The government knew that thawing would take place through the old career, with very unfavourable consequences for senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. With this option, the overwhelming majority of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians remained in the first position in the first category. In other words, workers over 25 years of work have no wage valuation. That's right, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, who has dedicated two-thirds of his professional life to users and institutions? Of course not. In addition to not being recognized the knowledge acquired, there is not even differentiation regarding who enters, to whom you have just entered the National Health Service. Only in 2019, almost two years later, did the Government publish Decree-Law No 25 / 2019, which defines the remuneration positions and the respective levels of the single remuneration table. Two years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! And it is appropriate to say that, in order to do what they did, it didn't take so long. More than disappointing the legitimate aspirations and demands of these health professionals, it was an disrespect. It was a disrespect for years of work, a disrespect for scientific knowledge that they have and a disrespect for the skills currently held by these professionals. Disrespecting such important and relevant areas of care is not acceptable. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u267	To submit Bill No. 463 / XIV / 1. the, presented by BE, has the floor Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate and thank the more than 20,000 promoters of a citizens' legislative initiative that allows us to discuss again the problems related to the career of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. I say to debate again because, indeed, these problems and this career have already been discussed at the end of the previous legislature. We could already — and should indeed — have solved the various problems that existed at the time, which were already identified and that were already called to this plenary, in particular through a parliamentary assessment presented by the Left Block. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is at the time that PS, PSD and CDS-PP have ended up chuming all the proposals for career change and, therefore, have maintained the injustices and injustices so far. Fortunately, unlike PS, PSD and CDS-PP, professionals struggle for a worthy career, fortunately, they do not comply with the injustices, nor do they conform—and still well—with a career that made a total blackout to all their years of work, which placed the overwhelming majority of professionals on the basis of that same career, which placed professionals with 10, 15, 20 years of work to receive the same as someone who now enters this career, or who put limits on progress and made unfair transitions, without any professional in the top categories. The TSDTs do not comply, and well, with this situation of injustice and therefore presented a legislative initiative of citizens to this Assembly of the Republic. The Left Block follows this initiative. Not only do we follow it up with a bill that also proposes career changes, in order to restore justice and value these professionals, but we also say that with a vote in favour of this citizens' legislative initiative. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which even wanted to give the champions' league to health professionals, now has an opportunity to do something much more important, which is to provide the career that health professionals deserve, provide something concrete and value health professionals. By the way, the PSD Parliamentary Group, which has been proposing that, for them, the professionals of the National Health Service would even be recognized, has now only one thing to do, which is to vote in favour of all the amendments that are proposed, both by the bills presented by the parliamentary groups, notably by the Block of the Left, and also by the legislative initiative of citizens. All who have been beating the health professionals can also have an opportunity in this debate, which is indeed to vote in favour and approve all the initiatives under discussion and which will be in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a career that values service time, a career that guarantees fair transitions, a career where progression is possible, that is what is needed for TSDTs, that is what is needed for health professionals and that is what is needed to strengthen the National Health Service itself. That is what we propose once again, and it is in favour of which we will also vote once again, because in the Left Block we do not fail to build the SNS every day. In the Left Block we do not swing with brass medals or consolation prizes, in the Left Block we even defend the dignity of professions and the appreciation of professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u269	To present draft resolution No 551 / XIV / 1. a, from the NAP, has the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We thank the petitioners for the opportunity to discuss this issue and congratulate the representatives present. The petitioners brought us an ILC (legislative citizen initiative). One ILC shows well the strength of this subject and notes that it is the target of the concern of many people, as it was the case, still for moments, of the discussion of another ILC on the end of public subsidies to Tauromachy. For the NAP, the improvement of the National Health Service is inseparable from the appreciation of its professionals, which is done with working conditions, creating and reviewing fair careers and wages. In the case of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, many have been the injustices committed, the promises not fulfilled, the time limits run or the law to be fulfilled. With 18 professions in this career, it is planned to hire only 220 professionals. If this number was already insufficient before the context of COVID-19, there are now even more needs, either in hospital care or in primary health care. At the end of the Bachelor's degree, all the professions included in this career began to require a degree, without the remuneration structure having suffered the necessary correspondence to this update. Eight years after the creation of a single pay table and a work contract regime requiring the review of all special careers, only in 2017 was created the legal regime of the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, then the professional qualifications requirements were defined. But only in February 2019 was the TDT career transition diploma (diagnosis and therapy technicians) approved for the current TSDT career. The situation experienced by these professionals leads to issues of clear inequality, allowing professionals with 15, 20 or more years of career that are in the first position in the first category of the pay table to have progressions similar to those of the professionals who have now begun career. But it's not the part of the professionals at the beginning of their career that's wrong, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. I also remember that, since September 2019, professionals who participate in this career should have spent from 40 hours to 35 hours a week at work, but some professionals, because they have an individual employment contract link, are still in 40 hours a week, creating a situation of clear injustice and inequality. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there has been a delay in solving the problems of these professionals by the government, with actual losses in wages and the level of professional recognition. What the NAP does today is to recommend to the Government that it resolves all the inequalities that this process has generated and that it, in fact, commits itself to the effective valorization of these professionals, regulating their careers with wage justice and equality within the public service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u271	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the bill presented in this legislative initiative of citizens, the legislative initiatives of BE, the PCP and the NAP associated with it and this discussion that takes place here, I would like to begin by going through some points that seem fundamental to me. At the SNS they will work, we know, about 8000 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, which is a designation that covers professionals from many different areas, such as biomedical sciences, laboratory sciences, imaging, radiotherapy, rehabilitation, vision, hearing, oral health and so on. There are many people who distribute themselves for multiple functions but who are all included in the same special career. In 2015, the PSD/CDS-PP government left a process of review of this career practically completed, and did so in negotiation with TSDT, at the time termed only diagnostic and therapeutic technicians. However, there were elections, the PS government chose to leave this process in the drawer for almost two years and only in 2017 published Decree-Law No 111 / 2017, which then established the legal regime of this special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy and the qualifications requirements for the profession. Only that this Decree-Law did not specify the rules of transition for this new career or the corresponding remuneration conditions. So there was a need for new negotiations. However, as no agreement was reached, the Government decided to unilaterally interrupt the negotiations and published, in February of last year, Decree-Law No 25 / 2019. This process described so far happened with very many other special careers, which we have repeatedly discussed in this Plenary. So there is a way of proceeding from the government that is not neutral to the point where we are today. What happens in this specific case? In summary, trade unions—and also the explanation of reasons for this citizens' legislative initiative— allege that the provisions of last year's decree-law, Decree-Law No. 25 / 2019, put more or less 90 % of these professionals at the base of career, causing setbacks in their progress and, of course, paybacks. As has already been said, in the previous legislature this decree-law was the target of parliamentary appreciation presented by BE, PCP and PSD. The PSD then withdrew its proposals and the Left Block and the PCP proposals ended up as a result of falling votes against the PS and abstention from the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u273	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u274	And why? This is the fundamental point. The CDS maintains the position at that time, as it has maintained—for example, 15 days ago, on June 18, when we spoke about nurses in a very similar situation—for the same reason, which is the same: only the government, I say again, has all the information to be able, on the one hand, to negotiate with unions and representative structures and, on the other hand, to make sustainable decisions, from the budgetary point of view, and equitable between careers. Therefore, if the government creates problems with its bad negotiating principle—because, meanwhile, it decides to knock on the door and not take negotiations to the end—and let injustice arise, it is up to the government to resolve them, not to this Parliament. I always like these positions of BE and PCP, which come here...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u275	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u276	The government has unilaterally closed the negotiations!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u277	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, I always like these positions of BE and PCP, which create great expectations but then, when the time comes to approve the Budgets, these are always minor issues and things happen there, no big problem. In any case, I conclude, Madam President, by saying only this: in the last debate that we had here, with Parliament's appreciation, the PS has just said that, of course, it would be available to continue these negotiations. It's just to keep the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u278	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for the Greens to welcome the thousands of citizens who have made use of this important instrument of our democracy, which they want to participate, which is the right of citizens' legislative initiative. The involvement of citizens in the legislative process is, for the Greens, always healthy and certainly deserves our recognition, especially when citizens' claims are more than fair, as is the case. In fact, for more than 20 years, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have been fighting to recognize the importance of the work they develop, their skills and their important contribution to the functioning of the National Health Service. And the only way to proceed properly to this fair recognition requires, first and foremost, the review of the career of these professionals. In fact, although senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have been drawing attention for more than 20 years to the need to repair this injustice, the fact is that only in 2017 were the diplomas published on the career regime of these professionals. Even so, it was still necessary to wait another two years to leave the diploma that would define the transition criteria and the pay table. On this diploma — we are therefore talking about Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 — it is important to remember that, contrary to what would be desirable, this results from the government's imposition and not from the result of negotiations with the workers, because the government has broken negotiations and advanced without listening to the workers. In addition, this period of time that mediated the publication of the 2017 diplomas, on careers, and the 2019 diploma, which came to define the transition criteria and the pay table, would cause severe injustices, from the outset because the defrosting of the careers that occurred since 2018 was made based on the old career and not the current one, since the transition and the pay table were not yet defined. In other words, the government did not establish transitional standards for the new career and the workers were penalized, since the thawing prevented the appreciation to which these professionals were effectively entitled. Then, the generality of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians moved to the first category, even those professionals with over 25 years of work, because, once again, the government did not ensure integration into the three categories that give birth to the career, something that should have guarded the transitional standards. In view of the framework outlined, responses are required to ensure respect for the rights of these professionals, especially the enhancement and progression of careers, with appropriate levels of remuneration. in this sense, The Greens will vote in favour of all the initiatives under discussion that, in our view, contribute to removing the injustices that continue to fall on the superior technicians of diagnosis and therapy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u280	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The successive delays in the career review process of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have severely penalized these professionals. On the one hand, they led to the defrosting process taking place on the basis of the old careers and remuneration structure and with different rules from institution to institution, because there was still no diploma to establish the transition of professionals. On the other hand, the system that was approved disagreed with the most seniority professionals, who were placed almost entirely at the level of those who are starting their careers. We speak of professionals with 15 to 20 years of work, who both give the SNS and whose knowledge and experience accumulated over the years has been disregarded. We therefore accompany the subscribers of this citizens' legislative initiative in the need to review this career and thank you for your work. Therefore, it should be ensured that all service time is relevant for the purpose of progressing and changing the remuneration position, a new wage table should be established and the correct defreezing of careers, regardless of the employment linkage, should be carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u282	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Borges of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u283	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this time when the careers of health professionals come back to the discussion in this Parliament, I greet, on behalf of the PSD, all the professionals of this sector, thanking them, in a painful way, all the self-denial shown in the fight against this pandemic and all professionalism, often placing their lives and the lives of their families concerned while they were struggling day by day for the health of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u284	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u285	I would like to congratulate the various parliamentary groups and the group of citizens who are bringing the debate today. I would like to say, on behalf of the PSD, that the dignity of a professional sector, as well as the appreciation of careers and the recognition of their needs, is made with serious commitments. Thus, the PSD presented, in the previous legislation, a draft resolution aimed at ensuring a previous study to assess the terms of the review of the special career of superior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. But it was not only in the previous legislature that we made evidence of our intentions. Very recently, the PSD proposal to award a performance award to workers of the National Health Service was approved unanimously in this House. But in just over 15 days, there is evidence in the House of Democracy of the lack of dialogue between the government and the health sector workers, as well as unmet commitments. This is the case to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this government would have taken a much more responsible attitude if, instead of offering football games, it would schedule meetings with trade unions and workers' representatives and implement commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u286	No more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u287	Once again, the government does not meet targets and does not meet deadlines, deadlines not only for trade union negotiations but also for legislation itself. Unfortunately, this is another chapter in the same novel. Otherwise, let's see: the government, by the then Minister Mário Centeno, made a commitment to present an economic and financial impact study of the various measures implemented...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u288	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u289	... and it was on the basis of this commitment, assuming it as an act of good faith that the PSD made possible several proposals submitted by the Government. But the compromise has not been fulfilled and the good faith of it has been broken, which forces the PSD to reassess the situation. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have recently stated in this House that it is up to the Government to resolve matters such as this because of their specificity, complexity, technical and budgetary density, and that they must be resolved at their disposal, and that must always be done at the centre of social dialogue. However, the issue has been brought to this House and, in this way, we must pronounce ourselves on it. The PSD is well aware of the need for the matter we are considering today. He knows well his technical requirements, his specificities and also his cross-sectionalness to other professional areas, not only from the health and public administration sectors but also from the private sector. on the part of the PSD, workers will be able to rely on commitment to defend the resolution of their problems, with a sense of responsibility and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u290	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u291	I will now conclude, Madam President. We therefore follow with interest and concern the various situations of injustice and lack of fairness that are reported to us, with regard to the need to change and correct certain aspects of the current legislative package. The PSD therefore considers that the introduction of possible corrections should be based on a balance platform between the correction of the legislative package and its corresponding financial value, making it socially and financially sustainable and should be made soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u292	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u293	I shall now finish, Madam President, by saying that at the moment the Government is in the hands of the Government to resolve these issues, but I stress that it will have to do so soon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u294	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u295	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group the 20 000 citizens who have subscribed to the legislative initiative we are discussing today. I take this opportunity to leave these professionals a very special thanks, on behalf of all of us, for the enormous dedication in their professional lives and to remind them of their importance at this time in combating the COVID-19. This bill also joins two bills, the Left Block and the PCP, as well as a draft NAP recommendation, which converges in a similar way to the citizens' legislative initiative. I wanted to make it clear that, in the last legislature, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was next to these professionals, thus ensuring that it was possible to effectively carry out the review of careers, which has long been greatly sought.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u296	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u297	It was the Government of the Socialist Party that did so 20 years later, as it was already mentioned today. When we talk about careers, we don't talk only about these careers, we talk about all of them. We are talking about the imperative need to ensure the revision and adequacy of each of the careers, in a cross-sectional and global logic. This is a very clear objective of the Government Programme: « Complete the review of unrevised careers, with a transparent and evidence-based discussion, to harmonise regimes, ensuring their sustainability (...) ». Finally, it was published in August 2017, as already mentioned, the decree-law that guaranteed the process of review of special health careers and that, as we all know, was a necessity in the broader framework of public administration reform. With this review, it was effectively possible to ensure, in the context of professional exercise and academic evolution, that the profile of competences and functional content were reviewed. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Decree-Law also determined that the recruitment for jobs in this career, including the change of category, was carried out through competitive procedure, whose application and processing requirements were regulated by the government members responsible for public administration and health areas last June. This route may not be the fastest to ensure the replacement of all superior technicians, is the route provided for in the Decree-Law, and has finally been given the exit step for the necessary regularization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u299	Finally, I would like to tell the PSD Member Carla Borges that, although she said that the PSD knows the requirement, she has forgotten it over the years she has been in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u300	You have to make the commitments you made!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u301	Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u302	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the PS, as mentioned by the PS Member, is next to these professionals, then we now have an opportunity in this House to correct this tremendous injustice. The PCP presented a proposal that thawing is made on the basis of the current career and not the previous one, because it makes no sense to defreeze by the previous career, which would be harmful to these workers; that the transition made by the new career will fill all categories. We must also not forget the need to eliminate the access quotas to the categories and, moreover, Mr President. Members — fundamental because this is an injustice — that access applies to all workers, regardless of their linkage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u303	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u304	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, the CFP says that professional careers are a central element in professional development and, in this case, in the quality of care provided to our users. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u305	We have concluded the eighth point of our agenda. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the presentation of draft resolutions that have entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u306	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and refer to the next item on our agenda, draft resolutions Nos 559 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 560 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 562 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), 563 / XIV / 1. a (IL) and 567 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June amending the organisation of coordination and regional development committees. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u307	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We will then move on to the ninth point of our agenda, which consists of the assessment of Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June, which amends the organisation of coordination and regional development committees[ Parliamentary evaluations No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 23 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). To present Parliamentary Assessment No 21 / XIV / 1. a, from the PSD, has the floor Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u308	Madam President, Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Mrs. State Secretaries of Decentralisation and Local Administration and Parliamentary Affairs: This process of election, rather than appointment, of the presidents and vice-presidents of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) is plunged into some misconceptions and, therefore, the PSD wanted to discuss it here. These misconceptions are so real that the intention of the government is, for many, everything and its opposite. For the Prime Minister, it is intended 'to give citizens confidence in the following steps', however, without specifying what these steps are and, in a very enigma of those who do not seem to put all the letters on the table, we do not know exactly what the Government intends to do with this diploma. For some of the political forces represented in Parliament, the Decree-Law is already a major regionalisation, but for others it is a brake on regionalization, exactly the opposite of what is said on the other side. So, Mrs. Minister, as you have already seen, there are theses for all tastes. As there are theses for all tastes, in order to avoid these drifts, I think it is important for the government to say, from now on, for what comes, without mental reservations and no hidden agendas. The government has to clarify, clearly and for future memory, whether what it really wants with this Decree-Law is to open the way for regionalization or, definitely, close it, because it believes that what it has done is already well done and is enough. Mr. Minister, for the PSD, this Decree-Law is neither one thing nor another. It's a dark law decree, which doesn't warm or cool. So if everything is as it is, we are almost sure that the adoption of reforms that potentiate the social and territorial cohesion of the country will once again be in the drawer. However — I would like to stress this point — it is difficult to stand against a mildly democratic blow of an election. It's hard to be against that. Therefore, the election of two of the elements of the CCDRs is neither abscess nor absurd and, as it is not, the PSD believes it is good to introduce some amendments that transform the Decree-Law and make it much more balanced and equitable. What are those proposals? The first one has a rule and an exception. The rule is that suffrage and choices are made by autarchs at the beginning of the mandate and not at the end of the term, i.e. elections for the CCDRs and local elections have to be more or less pairs, because it doesn't make sense that autarchs at the end of the mandate link autorches at the beginning of the mandate and soon for four years. The exception to this rule is that, in 2020 and only this year, elections can be held for the CCDRs in this model, because we need to ensure effective and efficient compliance, preparation and organisation of these entities to deal with Community funds and to manage the money that comes around. That is why, Madam Minister, the first amendment we propose is this. The second relates to the fact that the government cannot appear to be hand-held, supporting one election, and then takes away the other, because it has almost unlimited powers, an absolute and unrestricted power, of a golden share type, to resign and replace who is elected. That is why we also stressed this prerogative in our proposals. The third is simpler: there are rules of procedures and applications which, in our view, should remain for later regulation, to be carried out within 30 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u309	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u310	I conclude now, Madam President. In short, the PSD is not in favour of revoking the diploma, admitting its approval, but with these amendments that make it more reasonable. It will therefore be the Government and the PS that will have to decide on their fate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u311	To present Parliamentary Assessment No 22 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr. José Maria Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u312	Mr President, Mrs Minister and the rest of the ministerial team, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We are here to discuss and to appreciate Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June, which amends the organic of the coordination and regional development committees. I will have some criticisms, in a manner of consideration, from a procedural point of view, but also from a structural point of view. We are talking about CCDR, peripheral bodies of central administration, state-centred bodies, dependent on the ministries of territorial cohesion, the environment and local authorities that manage Community funds and provide technical support to the authorities and regional development associations. With this Decree-Law, we are seriously at risk of favouring all this mode of operation. The whole narrative of the argumentation and exposition of reasons underlying the reasons of the Decree-Law are in the sense of, and I quote « democratic legitimacy at the regional level, in which everyone is represented ». This generous intention is compared with the cunning of the measures contained in the document under consideration. One, election of the president by an electoral college composed of elected authorships of the territorial area covered by the committee. No author has been elected with this competence and therefore does not represent the population for this vote. Therefore, the election distorts the democratic legitimacy of a direct and universal suffrage. Two, even starting from the principle of representativeness of the autarchs, as stated in the document, this argument also becomes invalid and illegitimate because the Decree-Law points to an election during the month of September, precisely one year from the elections, which will certainly alter the political-party framework of the electors. The case may be that we have a president elected by autarchs who, in three of the four years of his term, does not please the electorate nor does he see himself in whom he has elected. Three, any citizen is eligible, the only individual premise being the degree of graduation, but with a great condition: the candidacy must be proposed by at least 10 % of the members of the electoral college.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u313	It's little!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u314	Let us take as an example the North CCDR, with eight regions in the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistical Purposes) level III, 86 municipalities, 1420 parish, corresponding to an electoral college around 4380 voters, in which 10 % correspond to 438 subscribers. We're talking about an election college that's addicted, party loyalty. Who has the opportunity to promote the candidacy? PS or PSD. This attachment to democracy that effectively removes the elective capacity to those who are not covered by the majority parties, for us, Block of the Left, constances a hypothetical unconstitutionality. Four, the whole process of auscultation to the autarchic bases, such as the great democratic triumph, falls to the ground with article 3. o-I, paragraph 2 ( d ) : « The terms of office of the President and the vice-presidents shall cease by a decision of the Government by resolution of the Council of Ministers (... ) ». This is a centralizing view of the exercise of power which, in the name of the hypothetical decentralization, binds the electorate to the spirit of this vision. Five, in the case of the vice-presidents who are appointed as an election, in one case no indication of the president of the chamber, in a sort of fratricidal struggle by the party majority, in the other, we are before a ministerial arrangement with appointment from the Minister of Cohesion. In addition to these topical criticisms to the Decree-Law, which set up a distorted perspective of intermediate powers and configuration of power of local authorities, cultivating presidential regimes— increasingly notorious in municipalities and now applying in the CCDRs—is concerned a reduced interpretation of the non-impacting of something which is enshrined in the 1976 Constitution, which is regionalization. This shared vision between the Government and the President of the Republic has been politically successful. It was very evident in November at the Congress of the National Association of Municipalities, where Mr. President of the Republic gave the motto saying that one cannot take a step longer than the leg and that the Portuguese people are not prepared and Mr. Prime Minister, in the closing speech, closed the expectations of the autarchs, announcing the election of the CCDRs, which we are discussing here, as a step towards regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u315	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u316	I'm done now, Madam President. Let us be clear: regionalization is not on the agenda of the Government or the President of the Republic. It is the Minister who taxfully states: « What we are talking about is the change in the form of designation of the holder of a direct government service to ensure increased legitimacy; and another thing is regionalization».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u317	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u318	Mr President of the Republic says the same thing and it is precisely because we believe that this is a mistake which is intended to lead the regionalisation that we require, with the draft resolution, the cessation of the validity of this Decree-Law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u319	To present Parliamentary Assessment No 23 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings the debate to Parliament's opinion of the decree amending the organisation of the coordination and regional development committees, because the country does not need a new way to designate the president and vice-presidents of the CCDR. In fact, the country needs — regions and populations too — a step forward in the process of regionalisation, as our Constitution of the Republic foresees and has been successively postponed by PS, PSD and CDS over all these decades. It is never the time, but the truth is that there is never any political will to give realisation to this desire put in place by our Constitution. The so-called « process of democratization of the CCDRs », as the Government wanted to design it, is part of a strategy of which over the years several governments have helped to circumvent the fulfilment of our Constitution. This is a strategy that has already had other instruments, such as urban communities and inter-municipal communities, and which focuses on the attempt to present a process of democratization of the CCDRs, as it is said, as part of a process of decentralization that, in fact, will prevent. It seeks to confuse itself with « decentralisation », where true decentralization is in fact carried out with regionalisation and with the creation of administrative regions. Mr Minister, the CCDRs are not authorities and it is not because their president becomes elected among the electors who will be elected. These will not become authorities and will continue to be unconcentrated structures of the central administration. This election does not alter its nature, nor does it give it greater legitimacy in this matter. The basic question here is therefore, in fact, this option. In our view, the government has not opted for regionalization, and it has not done anything wrong. The so-called 'democratisation of the CCDRs' is not a step towards regionalisation — indeed, the creation of the CCDRs itself, about 40 years ago, has also been announced as a step, but we are here, 40 years later, and regionalisation has not been implemented. It is therefore clearly an obstacle and an attempt to prevent the achievement of this objective. It does not cease to be curious, because, in fact, what this Decree-Law does is to establish a new way of appointing the leaders of the central administration, and it may be by competition, by appointment in a commission of service and, in this particular case, there is a limited college that elects a president. The so-called "democratic act" sums up half a dozen hours, because from then on he becomes a head of the central administration to respond to the government and not to respond to those who elected him. We therefore believe that this is not the solution and we propose that this diploma cease to apply. As the CFP has already proposed in the Assembly of the Republic, we reiterate that it is necessary and that we must move forward towards the creation of the administrative regions, fulfilling all the principles and precepts that our Constitution provides. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u321	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u322	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Once again, and like what he had already done with the delegation of powers of the authorities, the government wants to start building the house on the roof. To discuss the organic of the CCDRs and, in particular, the form of election of its president without even pretending that he is interested in discussing the competences of these bodies, nor if they have effectively approximated the power of the people, is in fact starting with the roof. This Decree-Law claims to be a step towards the « ongoing decentralisation process », but it is in fact only a thorough review of the designation scheme of the holders of these CCDRs, which are, remember, services and decentralised bodies of the central State, i.e. there is no decentralisation here. Then, as a cherry on the cake, the State does not abdicate its power, for which it gives itself broad pretexts, to dismiss those who come to be elected, without even a deadline for a new election. Centralism at its best or, they said others, at its worst. The discussion on decentralization has always revolved around the wrong issues, such roof of the house — organisms, holders, stewards — rather than the discussion on the foundations, i.e. the power of decision, the competences of these bodies and the resources to be transferred by the central State to as close as possible to the people. That is decentralization, and that, according to the preamble itself, will happen in the second moment, i.e., it will be thrown into the Greek calendars. I shall end, Madam President, by saying the following: once again, the Socialist Government opts to make changes on top of the actual elections to favour customers—it can only! The electorate interests of the PS are always ahead of the real interests of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u323	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u324	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government, through the diploma we now appreciate, has changed the role of the coordination and regional development committees. It follows that the basis for the government's rationale in building this diploma is based on wrong assumptions. Let us see: looking at this diploma as a step towards giving shape to the process of regionalization is not one who does not know what it is talking about, because the government knows very well that this has nothing to do with regionalization. It is, yes, of whom, intentionally or not, ends up confusing people with the deliberate confusion between two very distinct concepts. The government well knows that deconcentration has nothing to do with the process of decentralization of the country. Deconcentration and decentralisation are concepts with a very different nature and scope, as the government well knows. In fact, this technique, seeking pretexts to delay the process of regionalization of the country, is not new. It was, moreover, for this purpose that the CCDRs were created. And now, with the so-called « process of democratisation of the CCDRs », the purpose is to try to avoid compliance with the constitutional rules relating to the process of the creation of administrative regions. In fact, no matter how many more rounds they intend to give or new clothes they seek to wear, the CCDRs therefore do not cease to continue to be bodies of the central administration, because this is the result of their own legal nature. Moreover, it is sufficient to take account of the fact that the government's own diploma establishes the election of the Presidents of the CCDRs, which is made by the universe of the respective local electors, but at the same time to establish the ability of the Government itself to dismiss, without any limitations, the same presidents that were elected in the meantime. In addition, in accordance with the diploma, one of the vice-presidents of each CCDR is also indicated by the Government. That is to say, however much makeup is intended to be done, we will always be talking about deconcentration rather than decentralization. We'll always be talking about central government structures. But in addition to these important political aspects, we also have the idea that the government has moved forward without listening to anyone. For example, today we still receive the concerns of the Portuguese National Commission of the International Council of Museums, which has given us that, with this diploma, the regional direction of culture will be extinguished to be integrated into the CCDRs, but that so far they have no information from the Ministry of Culture on how and when this transition will be regulated. But most likely what is happening at the level of culture is repeating itself at other levels which are also involved in this transfer of skills. Finally, I would like to say that, in the Greens' perspective, what is required to enhance regional development and combat regional asymmetries is to move forward with the process of creating administrative regions, in the exact constitutional terms. The Greens therefore follow the parliamentary opinions we are making here today and also present a legislative initiative to put an end to Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u325	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u326	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: While we approve exceptional measures for pandemic-based authorities, which, unfortunately, is far from over, the Government has decided to move forward to the indirect election of the presidents of the CCDR by an electoral college composed of local voters, i.e., chamber presidents, councillors and electors in municipal assemblies. Now, this legislation has two very serious problems. The first is that it has stopped and 'in cod waters' the real decentralisation and the transfer of competences to the authorities, which is far from done—it is far from being done and has a long, long way to walk— despite the promises left by the previous Government. The second serious problem is that, in fact, this legislation can only be understood as a first step towards regionalisation. And here it is necessary to speak clearly: our Constitution leaves written, black in white—and it is not an interpretation, that is what is written there—that the first step towards regionalization must be a referendum. In fact, this first step has already been taken in Portugal and regionalization has been plunged. The Portuguese did not want regionalization. Therefore, if what the government wants is to walk towards regionalization, if it is to walk to elected bodies, either directly or indirectly, it has a first step to take: it is to propose the referendum. What the government cannot do is try to do in the secretariat what the Portuguese ostensibly rejected in the polls. The CDS therefore proposed that this document cease to apply, which I think is absolutely regrettable that it has even emerged. And I see as the main concern that the discussion here, for example, the PSD wants to bring about is a discussion on details, as if what we were discussing here were details. It was therefore clear that if what we want to create, if what the Government intends to create are technical bodies, then they are regions and this must be preceded by a referendum. If what we want to have is a technical body — a body that seeks to apply and manage money — then what we should be discussing here was a model of competition to choose the most competent ones. But since when do technical bodies need a political choice and a political election? Oh, my God! That doesn't make any sense. So, I can only think that, of three, one : or the gentlemen. Members and who is in favour of this diploma either regionalization and then it is better to approve the cessation of work and go along that path, which has to involve a referendum; or what is intended is to have the most competent people possible in the CCDRs and, then, we will discuss models of competition for technicians, professionals, in which the curriculum is evaluated; or, then, the discussion that we are really here to have and that, whether the government wants the PSD, they want to have about — and I will say the expression in English because it is commonly known in English — the jobs for the boys.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u327	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u328	I shall conclude, Madam President. And that is all that can explain the fact that the PSD is discussing, in the middle of all this, the moment, the date of the election and also wishing to—is I read well? Oh, my God! — that the requirement of the licence disappears. So, the technicians who will manage Community money don't even have to be licensed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u329	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u330	Mr President, today's proposal is a first step, according to the Prime Minister himself, towards regionalization, to regionalisation, which has been plunged by the Portuguese. But as your candidate to the President of the Republic has already said that this will only be possible with a referendum, they have found another, a little more airier way to bring it here to Parliament, through the indirect election of the CCDRs. But it was also important to understand what is actually at stake, because there is no single change of competence in the Chairmen of the CCDR. What is at stake is simply an elective model of ghost to take a step that the Portuguese have already rejected. But, moreover, they want to do so in September, when they know that, most likely, the elections of next year will not favour you. So there's nothing like putting the presidents of the CCDR on the move, and there's no electoral avalanche like the one that brought down José Socrates in 2011 because we'll already have people in the place. That's not how it's done. And this Parliament should not allow it, because what they want is to put people in places before the elections. For the most careless, I must say that this document provides for an extraordinary thing: the possibility of the government dismissing the presidents of the CCDRs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u331	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u332	I shall conclude, Madam President. That is, they do not take part in the election, they do not choose them in the election, but they can dismiss them after they are elected. Will there be a greater attack on democracy than this one? There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u333	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u334	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the NAP does not have the possibility to request a parliamentary assessment, we now welcome the parliamentary views of the CFP, BE and PSD, which allow this structural reform to be discussed in this Parliament, something which the Government has not proposed. We remember that the democratization of territorial governance and the CCDRs is an electoral promise of the Socialist Party that has been under way since 2015. We recognise the merits of the proposal, such as legitimizing an extension of the respective competences of the RACs, encouraging proximity policies and, of course, clearly bringing clear benefits in the context of the collection and management of the Community funds and of the European Union's regional policy. But the way the government decided to do it is based on a model of electoral college, a model for us anachronistic, 18th century, which served at a time when it was difficult to have a popular election. We repeat, this model is anachronistic and no longer useful. It was precisely this model that allowed Donald Trump to become president, with fewer popular votes than Hillary Clinton. The government then chooses to take a path from the past instead of daring to bet on a progressive model of direct election of the direction of the CCDRs. He opts for a model in which only the president is elected indirectly by an electoral college. He opts to choose the vice presidents according to the autoarchs. The government then chooses a closed-circuit democracy and excludes from the electoral act the possibility of direct participation of citizens and citizens. Excludes from the electoral act the possibility of citizens and citizens of each geographical area to decide which project is the best for their geographical area. This model can also foster major internal conflicts between presidents and vice-presidents and even paralyze the CCDRs. The government in turn does not abdicate control and does not trust citizens and citizens. Neither does he trust the autarchs, unlike what he does, for example, in the metropolitan areas. It then proposes a model of protected democracy, in which the government is watching if the children are doing well. Now, from the perspective of the NAP, this model smells like mofo! It cannot be called territorial democratization to a solution that is limited to giving a new garment to the already spent eternity in the power of the same political actors forever. For the NAP, only the direct election and its independence from the Government can ensure that the CCDRs and the members of their leadership act with autonomy and responsibility. In the view of the NAP, it would be possible for a direct election, for example, to coincide with the local elections, where people could vote in the projects for their municipalities and their parish, but also for a more comprehensive area corresponding to the CCDRs. This would involve more participation of citizens and citizens in the direction of proximity policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u335	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u336	I shall conclude, Madam President. For this reason, the NAP presents itself in this debate with a proposal that seeks to ensure a path towards democratization of territorial governance and is available for this debate in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u337	Mr Luís Moreira Testa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u338	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The issue that is brought to us here, to the issue of parliamentary assessments, is a topic of unique importance for regional development and for the harmony of development in our country. The CCDRs play a central role in the development of the regions, the municipalities and the parish because they have the means to finance the overwhelming majority of the projects developed by local authorities. And this government had the opportunity to share part of the power of these organisations with local power, which uses the services of the CCDRs in order to promote the development of its territory. If there were no other benefits, this was enough: trust in local power to be able to share power according to the real needs of citizens and regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, this point must be reaffirmed: we in the Socialist Party are definitely in favour of sharing power in these institutions also with the autarchs. It is not enough to trust the autarchs for some things and not trust them for others. So here we are also giving this vote of confidence to local authorities. With regard to the proposed amendments that are presented to us, we obviously see the possibility of merging in a necessary convergence, for the sake of this project, this project which cannot be a mere project of the Government or of the majority of the Socialist Party, must be a national project for which we all have to work. That is why the role of the Democratic Social Party or the Portuguese Communist Party, which is quite important in local authorities, is paramount for the success of this new cycle for the CCDRs and for the autorquic power. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the PS, one thing is enough: we will trust the future and have the ability to organize a different future that we want better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u339	The CFP Parliamentary Group still has 29 seconds. Mrs Paula Santos wishes to intervene to use these 29 seconds that the PCP still has. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u340	I wish, Madam President, but I note that the scheduling of these parliamentary assessments originated from various parties and proponents. I think this is something we will have to deal with later. Mr President, with regard to this process of amendment of the CCDR's organics, the Socialist Party is next to the central issue. It is that the central issue in this area and what is, in fact, necessary is to boost regional development, eliminate asymmetries, give the people power to make their choices and also participate in their vote in a more democratic way, in this particular case in the election of their representatives at this level.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u341	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u342	I will finish, Madam President. This is not what the government or the PS are discussing. I would conclude by saying that the decentralization and the creation of the administrative regions also have this power to deepen the democratic regime. This is a central aspect to which this initiative does not respond. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u343	For an intervention, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u344	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u345	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u346	It is for an intervention, Madam President, since I still have time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u347	Please, Mr Deputy, it has 21 seconds. I'm sorry, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u348	Madam President, the Portuguese Communist Party is right in its arguments, but only partially.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u349	Alone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u350	For a simple reason, Mrs Paula Santos: part of the premises she brings here are not the right ones for this debate. We will have time, opportunity, reasons to discuss other models, but the model that is presented by the Government, through the decree-law, and on which they made parliamentary assessments, is not the model that the honourable Member wants to discuss. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] So, you will have a problem to solve...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u351	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u352	... with the proclamations he makes daily in favor of the authentic spirit of the Communist Party Portuguese. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u353	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u354	The honourable Member will have this problem to solve, but it is not this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u355	The Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration now has the floor for an intervention. I apologize again, Madam Minister, but the Bureau did not have the indication that Mr Luís Testa still wished to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u356	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendments proposed by the Government to the organic of the regional coordination and development committees adopted by Decree-Law No 27 / 2020, which is now under discussion following parliamentary assessments, aim to strengthen the governance of proximity and democratic legitimacy at regional level. The Government, and maintaining the legislative solution in force, appointing the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the coordination and regional development committees, opted to abdicate this power in the name of an important advance in the democratization of the CCDRs. This democratization goes through the election of the presidents by an electoral college composed of the local elected members of each territorial area. This electoral college is composed of the presidents of the chambers, councillors, presidents of municipal assemblies, members of the municipal assemblies, including presidents of the parish board. Sadly, it is said that who is elected is boy. Of course, this decree-law had the favourable opinion of the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Fregues. So I couldn't stop being. These changes are fundamental in order to take a step forward towards democratising territorial governance and is another step towards consolidating the ongoing process of decentralization, establishing a proximity governance based on the principle of subsidiarity with a view to ensuring the interest of citizens and businesses. These general principles may be adjusted, provided they do not question two fundamental principles: to deepen the democratic legitimacy of regional governance and to allow the new steering team to be elected at the time when the management of the next Community framework begins. It is therefore essential now to move forward with this amendment so that the new steering teams are in operation at the time when we start drawing up and managing the next Community framework. These are the purposes of the government and not others. And, strictly speaking, what we have achieved with this is effectively strengthening the democratic legitimacy of our regional territorial government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u357	We have concluded the ninth item on the agenda. of the tenth point, and to which no time has been assigned, there is Bill No. 186 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to the system of access to administrative and environmental information and reuse of administrative documents approved by Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August, adapting the composition of the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents to the new system of incompatibilities provided for in the Statute of Deputies. We then move on to the last item on today's agenda, which consists in the general vote on the Bill No 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) - The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and by Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall generally vote on this bill, which has been under consideration today. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and with abstentions from the CFP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] Low to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u358	Mr President, it is to inform that you were present at this session, by video conference, Mr Sérgio Marques, of the Social Democratic Party, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-07.u359	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the plenary session is scheduled for 3 p.m. and the agenda is one item. This is a marking of the CFP on the theme « Alternative policy and response to the needs of the Portuguese people: food sovereignty, production and employment ». We are at the end of our session today. I wish everyone a good rest of the day. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 26 minutes.]]
