ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Agents of the Authority. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Before we get on the agenda, whose first point is political statements, Secretary Nelson Peralta has the floor to give various information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce that they have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 582 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 583 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 584 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 585 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 586 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 587 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 589 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) and Resolution Projects Nos 767 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 768 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 769 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 771 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 772 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 773 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then turn to the first item on the agenda: political statements. Let us begin with the Parliamentary Group of the CFP and have the floor of Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no greater national urgency than listening to what the workers and the people say about the difficulties they face and finding a proper response to their demands. For those who want to hear them, the living testimonies of the harsh national reality that we are going through translate the brutality of the economic and social problems that have taken place on millions of Portuguese, reaching particularly impedibly the popular classes and layers and all those whose livelihood and survival depend on their daily work, the possibility of achieving and, with it, getting fair compensation for the wealth they create. For anyone who dares to see beyond the described reality, these living testimonies confirm that we are not all on the same boat. They confirm that there are those who are being crushed by the epidemic and who amassed fortune by crushing their fellowman with the pretext of it; that there are those who fight for their rights, exercising them, and who want to ban the fight and liquidate rights; that there are those who are losing hope and giving in to despair and fear, while others take advantage of despair to sow more misery, poverty, exploitation and despair, because that is of their convenience. For those who wish to hear beyond the words that are said, in each testimonial of problems and difficulties, there is a path of response and solution to problems, the identification of a path that needs to be taken to ensure that national problems are solved and assured the conditions for us to have a more developed, more democratic Portugal, a country of progress, equality and social justice. It was this national urgency that corresponded to the PCP Congress held last weekend. Giving voice to workers and the people, reformers and young people, micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers and fishermen, farmers and culture, people with disabilities, the causes of the environment, equality, solidarity, continuing the need for the exercise of political rights for the people to have a voice, the 21st Congress of the CFP made the characterization of the world and national situation of the last four years, evaluated its foreseeable developments and pointed out the ways to overcome national problems and to build a new society in Portugal. in a time which, for some, should be confined to rights and even its final liquidation, the Congress of the CFP made the determined choice to affirm itself as an example of the democratic, progressive and socially advanced response that must be given to the problems posed by the epidemic and its economic and social impacts. If, over these months, we have fought temptations and anti-democratic tendencies in the pursuit of political, labour, social or cultural rights, if we have fought those who want to transform the fear of dying into fear of living and fighting, if we have fought the policy of 'prohibites, suspends and limits', if we have defended that the epidemic should be combated by creating conditions of health security for national life to continue, the realization of Congress must be an example of what we stand for.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u6	And that's what we did. The CFP Congress was another example of how it is possible to define, implement and implement health safety rules that defend public health so that life can continue in its multiple dimensions. And that is how the CFP Congress corresponded to the real national urgency of giving voice to the workers and the people, so that their interests, aspirations and aspirations may be heard and projected in the concrete and transformative action that needs to be undertaken. The PCP Congress was the voice of the workers and the people who made themselves heard, echoing the message of hope that does not abandon those who daily raise this country with their work and who, including last weekend, had to get up early to work the whole day. The message of hope that came out is the message of trust from those who build the present and want to build a better future for their country. Portugal has a future. With an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u7	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u8	... which defends national sovereignty, which frees the country from the domain of economic and financial groups, which breaks with the options of right-wing policy, it is possible to reverse the path of national decline, it is possible to respond to the epidemic, preventing its progress and its economic and social impacts, but also to the structural problems of the country, starting with the productive, demographic, energy, technological and food deficits. The need for this alternative policy arises, every day, with greater clarity in the demands of those who are most severely affected by the economic and social impacts of the crisis we are going through. And it was well present in the content of the Congress in the demands of workers in defence of employment, better wages and regulated schedules, such as in the demands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs that require support so that they can continue to work, countering the ruin that they are being launched, especially in the fields of restoration, commerce, hotel and tourism, in the demands of reformers, public service users, young students or workers. In all these demands are the concrete elements of the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that Portugal needs to build a better future. It is in the struggles for these demands that the key to the national future and to all of them the Congress of the PCP gave voice, with the sense of urgency that the change of policy and options require. Portugal has a future, with the action of every day to improve life, to defend, restore and conquer rights and with a political alternative to the governments of PS, PSD and CDS, an alternative of a patriotic and left-wing government, so it is necessary to fight, involving all patriots and democrats genuinely concerned with the national future, bringing together the political and social forces engaged in the defence and deepening of the democratic regime in its political, economic, social and cultural dimensions, ensuring the participation of popular classes and layers in the political options that need to be made to correspond to their aspirations. It is from the construction of this future that we will continue to deal with our determined and courageous intervention, prepared to overcome the adversities that lie before us. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u9	Mr. João Oliveira, there are four entries to request clarifications, including the PSD, Greens, Left Block and PS. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u10	I answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u11	All right, Mr. Deputies. To request clarification by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Oliveira, the PSD will do the following exercise of consistency: it criticized the conduct of the Congress before it was done and criticized it after it took place. The PSD considered yesterday and today it is unacceptable for the overwhelming majority of Portuguese to be in the house, because this was required, and the PCP wanted to give the example that it could be out of the house. [[PSD applause.]] It is unacceptable that families could not cross municipalities and the PCP walked freely, on a live wheel. It is even immoral that the country had almost all its economic activity paralyzed and the PCP was active in its held wrist celebrations. As far as Congress itself is concerned, Mr Deputies, more than that. The same leader, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, whom I congratulate here, but also the same ideology, the same prejudices, the same orthodoxy. Nothing new! A party with a hard speech, in Loures, against the government, but surrendered to the Socialist Party, in the Assembly of the Republic and in the Country. [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u13	It is a party against Europe, against NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ), in favour of debt renegotiation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u14	Great crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u15	... against the single currency. Despite this, Mr. Member, it is a party that the PS treats as its twin soul, preferring to criticize parliamentary support in the Azores instead of looking inside the house and to the continent...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u16	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u17	...and tell the countless frogs that have swallowed to maintain this convenience union with the PCP. Unfortunately, this is the recent history, either of your party or of the Socialist Party, both responsible for a Budget and for a conjuncture with the worst public investment in recent years, with the biggest deficit in recent years and with the worst system of National Health Service (SNS) in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u18	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u19	You don't get rid of this and you're the only ones responsible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u20	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Oliveira, I begin by greeting the Portuguese Communist Party for the holding of its 21st Congress, which took place this weekend. It was certainly much more demanding from the point of view of its organization, given the framework in which we live and the need to ensure strict compliance with the health rules. I welcome the CFP for the way in which the work was carried out — which, in fact, I was accompanying at a distance, through social communication — but also because, with the implementation of the Congress, the CFP finally remembered that political rights are not confined...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u22	But the Portuguese are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u23	... and, above all, that your exercise is not limited either, that democracy is not suspended and that the political activity of the parties is not frozen. In fact, from what we have heard today, we can see what it would be like if the PSD were in government, in relation to citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. But, Mr. Deputy, he showed more. It has also shown that, ensuring strict respect for health protection measures, political activity, and, from the outset, the conduct of a congress or any other activity, is compatible with the prevention of health. This element is of great importance today because it ends up bringing us hope that, by complying with the health rules, we can make life closer to normal, but above all, when we live at a time when, a little across the world, it will gain strength from what is already called a "pandemic backwardness" and which translates into taxation in order to shut down the protest and limit citizens' rights and freedoms. Therefore, also at this level the conduct of Congress was important. Mr. João Oliveira, as I have already said, was accompanying the work through social communication, at a distance, and, by the interventions I have heard, I realized that Congress has made an approach to all areas of relevance to the Portuguese. However, I did not have the opportunity to hear speeches on environmental issues, even if today, the rostrum, the honourable Member, made such a reference. So, Mr. João Oliveira, I ask: how have environmental issues been addressed, including issues relating to territorial imbalances, environmental degradation and also the trend towards the mercantilization of natural resources?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u24	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u25	Mr President, of course, I would like to thank Mr Peixoto and Mr José Luís Ferreira for the questions they have put to me. I begin by replying to Mr. Carlos Peixoto, saying that the PSD speech is not surprising. It cannot be said that it is a surprise what Mr has just said, and we are not surprised that the PSD continues to try to clean itself up from the mud it has placed on itself, by successively approving statements from the state of emergency that are leading to ruin thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the area of restoration, hotel, tourism, trade and services. This is because every time you have approved the state of emergency, particularly at this second stage, what you have determined was the obligation of all these measures that are now being imposed incorrectly and in a way contrary to what should be considered to truly give a response to combating the epidemic, because of the application and imposition of health security measures. We are not surprised at the speech they continue to make, to try to divert attention. The PSD is responsible for these restrictive measures, for the impositions of time constraints on trade and restoration, because it made possible the statements of the state of emergency, which allowed them. [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] Nor does it seem surprising to us that you continue to criticise what you have criticized in recent times, and that are essentially two things: health security and the CFP. The PCP held the Front Day in health security. The PSD criticized because health safety was guaranteed and because it was a CFP initiative. The CFP held its Congress in health security. The PSD continues to criticize because there was health security and because it was a CFP initiative. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, I only look forward to knowing what you will do to your Vice President,... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] ... who participated in an assembly which did not comply with a single health safety rule,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u26	How many COVID-19 caught at the Congress?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u27	...in Guimarães last Saturday!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u28	In Loures! In Loues you must speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u29	I would like to know with what consistency the PSD will deal with an irresponsible attitude, violating the rules that are defined for all Portuguese and that the Vice-President, André Coelho Lima, did not want to respect, when he participated in that assembly, in that way. You know, Mr Peixoto, if the views, positions and proposals of the CFP were to be welcomed, what happened in Guimarães would have happened with health security conditions. It would be possible to give expression to what is the cultural experience of Guimarães council, but with conditions of health safety, without the public health rules being called into question. on the contrary, it was carried out without these health safety rules being implemented and verified, with the participation of the PSD Vice-President – we expect to see what the PSD attitude will be. Mr. Carlos Peixoto, I would also like to say the following: what is most negative in the agreements that were made in the Azores is the fact that, once again, with the PSD's return to power, with the instrumental convergence of the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and the CDS,... [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] ...the damage to the Azorians. This is because the right-wing coalition that was created in the Azores and the formation of that regional government has already drawn its line of attack on social rights, of attack on the living conditions of the Azores populations and, unfortunately, will again be citizens, workers, the people, those who are affected by the PSD's return to power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u30	Mr President, you have two further requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u31	And you don't answer the ENP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u32	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Oliveira, first of all I would like to leave you a democratic compliance with the CFP Congress. Congresses are extraordinary moments of a party's life and I believe that this was even more extraordinary, because of the economic, social and pandemic context in which it was exercised. It is about this context that I would like to ask you a few questions. The Left Block identified as imperative needs to respond to the country, at the moment, two fundamental areas. A first area relates to ensuring that public services do not leave anyone without the necessary support in the pandemic period, in particular the National Health Service, which has been so badly treated by the right, when it is in power, but that the PS has not strengthened as it could and as it should in this pandemic period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u34	For the last six years, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u35	For example, it is noted that over the year 2020 there were almost 900 doctors who lost the SNS and did not have a guarantee of their maintenance, a proposal for the future, a career vision to stay in the SNS. And unfortunately they are doctors, but they are also other professionals and, from this point of view, the government has done very little to guarantee this fundamental value of the SNS, which are its professionals. The second area where it is also essential to give an answer, is linked to people, to people's rights, to those who work, knowing that this crisis has begun pandemic, but it is now economic and social and that it is dramatically increasing unemployment and also exploitation in our country. We must therefore give answers to people, give income, guarantee the future to people. On these two topics, which I know have also been the subject of discussion in your Congress, I would like to ask you if you agree with the Left Block, i.e. if the conclusions reached by Congress confirm those of the Left Block, that it is still necessary to do so much to ensure both public services to people and rights to those who work in our country, in particular the most precarious, the youngest, who in this crisis are being wronged their present rights and their future rights. These are the fundamental struggles and whoever wants a future for the country has to build it in the present we live today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u36	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Oliveira, the Socialist Party welcomes the Portuguese Communist Party for holding its twenty-first National Congress, which was held at the moment following the State Budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u38	And what does the State Budget have to do with the PCP Congress?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u39	We have carefully and interestedly accompanied the work of the National Congress of the CFP and we have found that it has focused on a deep reflection on the present and future of our country and on the great challenges facing families, businesses and the economy. We wanted to remember, before we were able to move on to the progress of this State budget, the path that we have travelled since the end of 2015 when a left-wing alternative was created in the country that has achieved the recovery of income and the recovery of social rights and labour rights, which has combated poverty, which has reduced unemployment; which has promoted economic growth and promoted social cohesion. After being hit by a global pandemic crisis, we did not abandon the biggest challenge, the biggest appeal, which is to maintain convergence. The PCP had an important role, when it made the Budget available in general, because it allowed substantive advances in the discussion in the field of specialty. And these advances are the necessary responses to families and businesses most affected by this economic and social crisis. This is how we have achieved the 100% layoff, the hiring of thousands of professionals for the National Health Service, the new social benefit that will cover about 250 000 citizens, the extraordinary increase in pensions since January, the penosity allowance, the increase in the minimum limit of unemployment benefit, the extension of unemployment benefit for six months, and another set of measures that are authentic social responses, as I said recently, for those who are most affected by this crisis: families and businesses. from our point of view, the greatest good is to keep this bridge, this bridge of dialogue, this bridge of convergence, so that in 2021 we know how to meet the requirements that the country, the economy and this crisis will put on the table. We have met two budgets of the state of this legislature. Half of the Budgets are met. The great challenge now lies in continuing to build this bridge of dialogue which has been able to bring about the necessary progress and the necessary answers to the crisis that the country is experiencing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u40	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u41	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been little time to answer the PSD, but I would like to reply to the questions put by Mr José Luís Ferreira, thanking, of course, from now on also the questions asked by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares and Mr João Paulo Correia. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I wanted to tell you that the CFP Congress was a free, determined and courageous act in the exercise of political rights, but it was much more than that. At the same time, it was a demonstration, an example, of what we stand for for all that surrounds us, for the most diverse economic, social and cultural activities, because what we have defended for others is what we want to practice for ourselves. And if we have argued that, in the restoration, trade, industry, theatre, cinema, cultural and sports collective activities, what we should do was create conditions for all national life to continue, we could now leave to set an example by our Congress in the same health security conditions that we defend for everything else. Of course, the issues related to nature and the environment were present at our Congress. And, moreover, they had a proper consideration, in what is an objective of which we cannot ignore, which is the need for environmental and ecological balance, because human experience has to be ensured in terms of balance with the environment and ecosystems. In our concept of development and progress, the consideration of environmental issues does not cease to play a preponderant role, so that such progress and development can be achieved. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares raised two fundamental questions. In fact, the need to strengthen public services and their capacity to respond to the needs of users, such as the need to ensure the protection and protection of the rights of workers are absolutely essential issues not only in responding to the immediate problems posed by the epidemic and its economic and social impacts, but in responding to the structural problems, the underlying problems, which continue to mark the present of the country and condition its future. It is in this sense that the CFP has intervened, not failing to set more advanced objectives, for which we continue to beat ourselves. Let us not give up anything that can contribute to progress in this area, with a very clear position, of course, in relation to what we accept and what we reject. And, therefore, we have defended the strengthening of public services, the strengthening of the hiring of professionals, the strengthening of investment, with concrete measures, such as, moreover, those that ended up in the Budget for 2021, and particularly in relation to the National Health Service, with concrete measures for the recovery of late consultations, for the strengthening of investment in equipment and in the construction of infrastructures, which are absolutely essential, alongside the hiring of professionals to be considered. As far as labour rights are concerned, the same thing. As in the discussion of the Supplementary Budget, we had a vote against, because it provided for the consolidation of cuts in wages, also now on the basis of 100% pay and the creation of support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that these wages can be paid to 100 % — achievements that are relevant to the country's situations and needs. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, I would like to tell you that the evaluation we have made in our Congress, with regard to the situation of the country and the prospects for the future, is that another policy is actually needed. The options that the PS has maintained, particularly on structural issues related to coping with national problems, mean a real conditioning to the possibilities for future development, the limitations to our sovereignty, the limitation of the State's ability to have instruments in companies and strategic sectors to respond to the needs of the country. And these are limitations that have to be overcome, in fact, with an alternative policy. The CFP will not fail to contribute and count for the solutions of progress in responding to national problems and, in particular, for the solution of the immediate problems that are posed by the crisis situation that we are going through, but will not fail to be struck by these more advanced objectives, which constitute the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u42	Sure, sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u43	...that is truly the alternative policy by which we will continue to beat. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u44	Mr João Oliveira, I would like to associate myself with the expressions of greeting by the PCP Congress and, in particular, by re-election of Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, once again as Secretary-General, since he has been a Member of this House since 1975, since the Constituente, and therefore it is always a pride to see him in high positions in his party. [[PPS, PCP and PEV applause.]] You now have the floor for a political statement by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In vaccines against COVID-19 the hopes of the world are concentrated — the hope of recovering health as well as fundamental, the hope of regaining the economy as a vital activity, the hope of returning to normal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u47	It is therefore critical that the vaccination operation be successful; that on the day the vaccines arrive in Portugal, everything is meticulously prepared, carefully anticipated, properly accompanied. In the United States of America, the operation was handed over in June to a general logistics expert and the plan, presented in October, is now being tested and tested on the ground. Vaccination will begin in December. In Germany, a team was set up to schedule the vaccination on 17 April and the plan was made public on 6 November. The different phases are known and the responsibilities are assigned. In the United Kingdom, the team was appointed in May and the first version of the plan presented on 25 September. Vaccination will begin for the week. In Portugal, only on 4 November, the technical commission for vaccination against COVID-19, DGS advisory group ( Directorate-General for Health ) was established to recommend strategies and target groups, which was therefore wrong. But on November 23, another task force was created to develop a vaccination plan against COVID-19 in 30 days. Headed by Dr. Francisco Ramos, this task force is, for all purposes, subordinate to the leaderships of DGS, Infarmed ( National Medicine and Health Products Authority ), INSA ( National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge ), ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and SPMS ( Shared Services of the Ministry of Health ). That is, when we needed a focused structure, a clear leadership, a tested process and a confidence based on the demonstrated preparation, we have a clumsy of decision makers, an entropical complexity, a conditional delay and very, very little time to prove that we will be able. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not the time for narratives that want to hide impreparation. To say that « the vaccination plan is being prepared for months in Portugal », as explained by Graça Freitas, or « there is zero risk of Portugal not being prepared to vaccinate the population », as the Minister said, is not only recklessly incorrect. But, in respect of the Portuguese and the seriousness of the situation, this is not yet the time to establish responsibilities, this is the time to demand responsibility. And while the Prime Minister insists that « it is not worth anticipating anxieties » in the CDS, we regret that he has not been anticipating difficulties, preparing the country. It is that, for nothing to fail, it is about the difficulties and challenges that we must deal with. So the CDS has 10 questions. First, when will vaccination begin? One thing is the arrival of the vaccines and another is their application. In the United States of America, the difference between the two is 24 hours. Secondly, taking into account the cold requirements, in which facilities(and belonging to whom) will vaccines be stored? Thirdly, how will distribution and transport be done? Which administration sites are already mapped and checked? Fourthly, have the syringes, needles, solvents and PPE(individual protective equipment) been purchased and are already in Portugal for this application? It is spoken in 22 million doses, but the counterpart must be ready for material. Fifthly, are people who are identified and trained to apply the vaccine? Is the operation in mirror and safeguard the breakdown of health units planned? In sixth place, which target groups at each stage, what is their size and how will the vaccination schedule be done for each person of these groups? Seventh, will there be an intensive monitoring and clinical follow-up model? In eighth place, will a awareness campaign be carried out on the safety and efficacy of vaccination? In the ninth place, being the optional vaccine, how many people will have to be vaccinated to achieve group immunity? And how will that immunity be monitored? In the tenth place, is a safety operation planned for transport and application of the vaccine? What's the role of the Armed Forces? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We know today — we will be familiar with the vaccination plan now — and we hope that you will give appropriate answers to all these questions, until the expectation is that a vaccine will be delivered in January. No one believes that the pandemic is the responsibility of a government, we understand that there are inevitable consequences, even if we answer some decisions, and we have, all Portuguese, borne the weight of what is asked of us. at this moment, it is delivered into the hands of the Portuguese Government the best hypothesis we have to return to normal: a vaccine. I repeat, it is in the hands of our government. And let it be clear: we all want it to go well, but no Portuguese will forgive the government if it goes wrong. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u48	All right! [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u49	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. In order to obtain clarification, five were registered. Members, to whom the honourable Member will reply, according to the Bureau first informed a group of three and then a group of two Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To this end, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Alberto Machado, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this issue is timely and important for Portuguese, their families and their businesses. It is the key to saving lives, our economy and our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u52	It is the recent history of the influenza vaccine that should not leave us alone and the government has to learn from the mistakes it has made. A few months ago, the government guaranteed that there would be vaccines against influenza for everyone. When the Portuguese went to health centers and pharmacies, they realized that this was not the case. Indeed, after the government's failed promises regarding seasonal influenza vaccination, in which millions of Portuguese have been vaccinated, many of which are elderly and chronic patients belonging to risk groups, we know that the government cannot fail again in the Vaccination against COVID-19. But the truth is that while many European governments have already prepared their respective Vaccination Plans against COVID-19, Portugal is still at a preliminary stage of preparation, and almost everything is still unknown. At least it seems that the Minister of Health, ensuring that the vaccine will be free of charge, has already hurried the way over the eventuality of the vaccine to be paid by the citizens, as she admitted in the summer. A few days ago, we heard the Minister of Health say, smiling, that there is zero risk—and the term is from the Minister— Portugal is not ready to vaccinate the population during the COVID-19. However, it is alarming that the same Minister now admits that only in the second half of next year, most of the Portuguese population will be vaccinated. These are disturbing statements, but we all want to believe that, this time, nothing will fail. I ask you, Madam Member : do you still believe in the credibility of the Minister of Health's promises? It's just that failure can't be an option. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u53	In the meantime, another Member was appointed to ask for clarification, so Mrs Ana Rita Bessa will respond first to a group of three and then to another group of three. Ladies and gentlemen. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u54	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, would like to welcome you, as well as the CDS, for bringing the vaccination plan against COVID-19 to the Chamber. It is certainly not a panacea, but it is, individually, the most important tool, not only to recover social and economic normality, but also to give hope to the Portuguese. That will be true if two things happen: if the Government is able to give confidence not only as regards the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine but also as regards the model of its implementation — something which, by the various situations already brought here by other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not seem very easy to do so, and if, despite the relevant 10 questions which you have left here, things are actually going well. It should be noted that, until today, it is still more or less widely known that vaccines will be available from January onwards. Now, it is a mistake to let this idea perpetuate because it will take a lot longer than that the beginning of the Portuguese vaccination. Therefore, even in the first step, which is the management of expectations, the government is already failing. And it is also failing in another important dimension, which is this: every month that can anticipate the achievement of such group immunity is a month that anticipates the social and economic recovery of Portugal. This has a price that is not compatible with the floor to exclude from the providers and inoculators of the vaccine against COVID-19 any other providers or entities that do not belong to the SNS. So, Mrs Deputies, I would like you to reply very specifically to the following, because this has to be clarified, and you have to be informed in this House as soon as possible: will you follow the Liberal Initiative when we ask today afternoon, after hearing the explanation of the vaccination plan against the VACID-19, the urgent hearing of the Minister, the task force officer for the vaccination plan and those responsible for the vaccine-producing companies, so that we can assess whether or not we are putting on the ground a viable plan for the vaccination of the Portuguese as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u55	The third speaker to request clarification is Mr João Ramos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u56	He's not here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u57	I mean, João Dias, from the PCP. I am very sorry, Mr. Deputies. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u58	You're welcome, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the topic that has brought us here: the vaccination plan against COVID-19. Mrs Deputy began her speech because of the hope of successful vaccination against COVID-19. Madam Member, the first request we have to make to you, and it is a requirement for which we are all summoned, is that you do not turn this hope into distrust. Here, it is essential that we all assume the responsibility of not creating a climate of distrust for the Portuguese. Furthermore, it is essential that those who have fed the climate of fear, of panic, do not also contribute to the climate of distrust regarding the vaccination process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u60	Fundamentally, it is to create conditions for the population to trust health professionals, health authorities. It is with them that the Portuguese population must count to protect their health. Then there is a need for clear, objective and enlightening information and based on scientific data. It is only through this information that the population can also adhere—and adhere in a free and clear manner—to a process of vaccination in which it feels confident. Therefore, it is important that we also fight the mistrust that can be generated in a vaccination process and in a vaccine that has been created in record time. Then there is also what the honourable Member may have some mistrust, but in which we have absolute confidence, which is the National Health Service, the public service, the one we should count on. And don't create yourself or have another chance here so the private can do business at the cost of vaccination. It is with the National Health Service and primary health care that we must count on, in order to ensure that the response to regular activity and chronic diseases are not therefore also impaired. in this sense, we are well in time to provide the National Health Service either of means, or of professionals, or of a process that guarantees a vaccination, without questioning what is the regular activity of primary health care. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u61	In response to this first group of speakers, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Alberto Machado, you are absolutely right. In fact, the process of vaccination of seasonal influenza that took place this year — a process that, moreover, takes place annually and should therefore be routine — was not a good example, nor is it a good predictor of an operation that will be infinitely more complex, from the outset, by topics related to the vaccine itself, namely, with the problem of cold, with all the issues related to the possibility of opening the boxes where the vaccines come and the need for no waste. Therefore, this process is not a good predictor, but it does not mean that we are not yet in time to build a good plan, which is why the CDS brings now — and not later, to point out the finger — in good time the questions which I would like to see answered and which, moreover, are based on the plans of other countries. In fact, another reason for being a little more uncomfortable is that in many other countries these plans are already known. Obviously, they are subject to adjustments, insofar as you have learned more about vaccines, but they offer greater confidence. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, yes, we will follow the Liberal Initiative. And not only will we follow up as we have already anticipated, since last Friday we applied to the Health Commission — and it was unanimously adopted — the coming of Dr. Francisco Ramos, responsible for the task force. Therefore, we can only see with good eyes that he joins other actors who help us compose a clear picture on how this operation will be mounted, which, yes, is quite right, will not be exhausted in the first months, will be long, so we need to prepare ourselves patiently for this process. Finally, Mr João Dias — and we too miss Mr João Ramos! — I fully agree with you that one of the great enemies of this process is mistrust, placed at various points of the process, of course, on the effectiveness of the vaccine. It is very important that people become conscious and that all kinds of false information is deconstructed around the effectiveness of vaccines, because of group immunity depends on the ability to return to activity. Now, Mr. Deputy put something in my mouth that I didn't say. On the contrary, I have reinforced the importance of cautioning the means so that vaccination does not derail health units, thus focusing on the SNS. But your mistrust - to you, in a mirror - is that I have the idea - and you correct me, if you are wrong - that Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna is not SNS, right? They are, yes, private companies that have developed the vaccines that we are now waiting for. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] If you have so many problems with the private initiative, it is best to let them all be developed out there and hope that the SNS will develop here, if that is your problem. Therefore, Mr President, who has the problems and who reveals them in the intervention is Mr. For me, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u64	To request clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, exceeding the need for the CDS statement by bringing to a political statement a vaccination plan which will be presented today in the afternoon and whose surroundings we do not know, in addition to this need for affirmation which is pressing, I ask the honourable Member if she does not think it is important to bring together all the political forces around that plan, in order to transmit confidence to the Portuguese and reach the immunity of the group we so much wish. Mrs. Member, excuse me, you were not present at the Infarmed meeting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u66	But I heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u67	... because it did not have to be, but, of course, its leader must have registered and must have shared with him the good news we have heard about the effectiveness of the measures that the government has taken in time to see now that the transmission and incidence of COVID-19 is decreasing. In fact, we obviously need to consolidate this trend, but we know that there is an imperative need for us to trust the scientific community that everything has done so that we can continue to overcome this pandemic, less painfully. Let me tell you that all of us who were present have come out with at least a realistic hope, with regard to vaccination and until the end of this pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u68	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u69	Therefore, Mrs. Member, the only advice I can give you, with all the sincerity and friendship that is a lot, as you know, is that you trust. Don't be suspicious, Mrs. Member, it's gonna be okay, sure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u70	The second request for clarification is for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, and to that end Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the vaccination and the availability of the vaccine for COVID-19 is obviously a very important moment, because since the beginning of this pandemic we knew that only with the discovery and massive vaccination of the population would we be able to overcome this pandemic. This is because group immunisation is needed and this is the most effective and safe way. Now it seems to me also that in this debate it would be advised to avoid two things: the first was not to make great praises and comparisons to the 'trumpist' strategy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u72	I admit we should put our eyes on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u73	... from the attack on the COVID-19 that doesn't exactly look like the one we should follow. The second is that the vaccination plan is currently being presented and, therefore, the honourable Member has left a number of important issues which are probably being answered. This debate would certainly be much more useful and would bear much more fruit after we knew that plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u74	Or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u75	I believe that, first of all, we need to know this plan, the Left Block obviously wants to discuss it as well, but to be discussing it without knowing what it is planning to do is difficult. However, I believe that the plan should have two levels: a more technical level, technical criteria, on whom to vaccinate, such as, when, etc. , we have to wait to see, and then necessarily have to come with another plan of human resources and workers of the National Health Service. This is because, necessarily, it will have to be the National Health Service to ensure the universal response of vaccination and it will necessarily have to have this strengthening, particularly as nursing professionals to ensure that it reaches everyone as quickly as possible, with maximum safety and maximum effectiveness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u76	The last request for clarification lies with Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u77	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, in fact the ‘trumpism’ did not work, which actually worked was Venezuela and its vaccine or Cuba and its vaccine or Spain and its vaccine...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u78	Better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u79	That's what worked completely. In fact, all the vaccines we have seen being announced are from countries from socialism and from socialist machinery in power. [[PCP protests.]] How many are there? Zero! We don't have a single vaccine in a socialist country, one one. All vaccines tested and accepted by the European Medicines Agency are private and from countries that you say are capitalist countries. [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]] Mr President, in Cuba there are no vaccines, excuse me from being with my hands in the air, I know that I would like it to be, but there is not, Mr, there is no one. In Venezuela, which I know neither, and in North Korea there are zero cases—maybe they identify more with these!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u80	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u81	There is a case, a dictator's cousin, there is a case... Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa, in Portugal, we have a paradigmatic case: the delay in vaccination planning. While other countries, such as Belgium and France, advanced in their vaccination plan... [[Protests of PS Members.]] I know there are others who bring vaccines from France, we hope that it will not happen the same in Portugal... But I said that the vaccination plan in Portugal is manifestly late, so I wanted to ask you the following: the government announced today that it will have 22 million doses and that we will have an optional and free vaccination, what do you think will be the role of pharmaceuticals and pharmaceuticals in this distribution?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u82	That's where he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u83	Are we going to be limited to the National Health Service or will we allow community pharmacies, which the pharmacies with the populations, to distribute and participate in this vaccination process? It is here that there are only two paths: that of the ideological blindness that leads to wanting to close everything and everyone in matters of vaccination and that of those who are truly concerned with the Portuguese and want the vaccine to reach every street, every avenue, every village of Portugal, either through the public or private, without ideological sector, without ideological blindness, without any blindness, by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u84	In response to the three requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u85	Mr President, Mrs Antonio Almeida Santos, our friendship is reciprocal, but, Madam Member, in the midst of such friendship, I should not have received the meme in which Mrs Almeida told me what I had to expose today in the political statement, what was the subject that I had to choose and see there that then I exercise the freedom that belongs to the parliamentary group, and I decided to choose a theme that even seemed to me to be the subject of the day. I am very sorry not to be following the Socialist Party's cartridge, but, still, Mrs. Deputy, as I am a conscious person, and even well-behaved, I have been watching the Infarmed session on YouTube open-ended. Perhaps, you don't know, but you don't really have to go there, there's now something called "at a distance" and we can watch and, therefore, I watched the distance at the Infarmed meeting. I know that the PS deals badly with the issue of transparency, but now it's like this, it's all done in broadcast, we can see, and so I watched. In fact, the honourable Member is asking for a lot of confidence in what was said there, but I am very used to trusting you know what, Mrs. Member? In the work, in the preparation and in the correct leadership of the processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u86	Leadership? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u87	But what I have seen so far, Mrs Deputies, were phrases and the only solid fact that really strengthens my confidence is to know that Portugal has entered — and very well — the joint purchase by the European Commission of the six vaccines. And that is why I really trust there will be vaccines in Portugal. It's just for that reason! In any case, and continuing this discussion, Mr Moses Ferreira, I tell you the following: the plan is being presented now and, of the two, one, or all the questions that the CDS has asked here, which give voice to the questions of many specialists, because, as you know, I am not myself and therefore I am not disagreeing with these ideas, but in fact they are being answered... and look, no big thing has been lost, it was at an educational time for the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you've generated something here to think about. Either it doesn't answer and it's better to ask the questions before the complaints afterwards, point the finger and throw away the partners later when we're not so satisfied. Finally, Mr Ventura, as regards pharmaceutical products, I would say that there is no possibility that Community pharmacies will not be included in the process of applying the vaccine at any later stage, as in other countries such as the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada, Australia and, indeed, the United States that have no original sin in this matter. Therefore, I realize that they cannot be included in a first phase, even by a logistical question, as has already been said, in the same way that vaccines arrive in Portugal, but it is impossible to reach the desired capillary without also resorting to Community pharmacies which are, moreover, partners accepted by the government, with regard to the influenza vaccine.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u89	For a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that we continue to experience an unprecedented health crisis, which has forced us on new restrictive measures, measures to limit citizens' freedoms and with consequent socio-economic impacts. But if, when this health crisis arose, we did not know how long we would have to live with this reality, the dimension that it assumed today allows us to bear in mind that health responses must be aligned with that which is a robust social and economic response. In September, unemployment had already increased 19, 5 % and the volume of business and work in the service sector had suffered significant breaks. In October, 29, 9 % of the accommodation establishments were already closed and those who were open recorded a reduction in the number of dorms in the order of less than 63 %. Today this scenario is worse, particularly in the services, hotel and catering sector that in 2018 represented 8, 74 % of Portuguese business fabric. But more than numbers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is the life and stability of the many families that make up our country. For more than a week now, we have at the door of the Assembly of the Republic a group of people who simply claim to let them work or, given the impossibility of doing so, which we all understand well at this time, that their sectors are better supported. Also at the door of the Assembly of the Republic yesterday the workers of the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), who asked us to cross the wave of redundancies and cuts of rights resulting from the difficult period that the company is going through, despite the public intervention that took place. The number of appeals and requests for aid are unfortunately multiplied every day, but our answer, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be indifference. Behind each statistical data is a face, there is a family, there are stories, which today are in a very fragile and uncertain situation and which wait for answers that take time to arrive. Here arrived, however, it was not the second wave that came too soon, we were the political power, which we delayed to prevent and, above all, to minimize those that have been the consequences and the impacts that were already being anticipated, especially due to the lack of planning that occurred. The difficult situation is that Portuguese business tissue is going through — and we well know that it can get worse — should have been anticipated, given the greater availability of means and the greater knowledge of the disease in the face of the outbreak of this epidemiological crisis. We can and should do more, in order to ensure concerted answers, instead of continuing to add patches to a blanket of flaps already short and sufficiently insufficient to meet the needs of the country. More than ever, it is time to move forward with strong, largely lost support to prevent the social crisis from becoming a situation of social catastrophe and this is only possible with quick, effective and sensitive political decisions to existing needs on the ground. The path cannot continue to be to promote solutions that increase the corporate debt spiral. For example, in the State budget, it was positive to establish a substitute for layoff with a 100% salary for workers and the suspension of special payments on behalf of small and medium-sized enterprises. But it is too obvious, at this time, that we have, and we need, to go further. It was precisely in the context of the State budget that the NAP made very concrete proposals, which were unfortunately rejected. We proposed direct support, in the form of a single benefit for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with the value of 50 % of the average revenue loss of turnover verified compared to the 2019 homologous period. This was a measure which, despite being fair, balanced and responding to the needs of companies, especially the restoration sector, was cast with the vote against the PS and the abstention of PSD and the Liberal Initiative. We proposed the creation of support for non-residential tenants from street stores and shops in shopping centres, but this proposal was cast with the vote against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative and with the abstention of PCP and CH. We also proposed an exceptional scheme for the increase of staff costs by 120 % at the head of IRC ( corporate income tax ) for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in order to provide a tax incentive for the maintenance of jobs, but this was rejected in this case by the vote against the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the PSD. If these advances have not been made, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was in fact because this House did not want it, it was because the right, in particular the PSD, which so much likes to be called business friends, preferred to stand by the PS and postpone the solution of the problems that so much affect our business fabric and the consequences of which may be irreversible. But the crisis does not only affect the business fabric. For this reason, the NAP, in the State budget that we just approved last week, has not forgotten the entities of the social economy or the cultural sector and the non-governmental organizations, which, every day, and with resources, have been in line with the responses to the social and economic impacts of the COVID-19, supporting the most vulnerable segments of the population, entities that, we have this well present, also represent 6, 1 % of the paid employment of the national economy and which give absolutely essential answers to the most vulnerable population. It is essential to ensure that public-interest missions carried out by non-governmental organizations, be they in the areas of human rights, the environment or other activities, which are crucial to ensuring a better country, are not damaged or stopped because of this health crisis. But once again the proposals in this regard have been plunged by this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rejection of proposals relating to the social economy, without the approval of any alternatives, is the way to the absence of a social network essential to our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u91	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u92	I conclude now, Mr President. This House has an important role to play in responding to the crisis that we are experiencing and cannot fail to show sensitivity to the different sectors. More: it must be up to the responsibility of adopting measures. We cannot continue to say something outside this Chamber and, at the time of voting, close our eyes and reject those that are the answers to be given and the path to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u93	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, her political statement prompted five entries for requests for clarification. The honourable Member will say how she wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u94	Mr President, I will answer in two sets, one in two and one in three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u95	So the first request for clarification lies with the PSD. To that end, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, first of all, I would like to welcome the NAP for bringing to debate a subject of greater relevance. Social support has always been a relevant issue, even more so in a pandemic period, in a period of economic and social crisis, in such a period as this one we are living in. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, no one can stay behind. The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the last week's discussion of the State budget in the field, the proposal for an amendment to support micro and small business partners, a proposal for the most basic justice, which comes to support small entrepreneurs in the restoration, small merceries entrepreneurs, small coffee entrepreneurs, because we understand that no one can even stay behind, that no one can stand off the radar of social support. And in this area of social support, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn this Parliament that there are social support, approved in the last Supplementary Budget, which has not yet reached the people who need them to live, to have a quiet life in their day-to-day life. It is important to say that, here, the State continues to fail, because the State continues to leave some people behind, and we cannot leave these people behind. And the PSD has insisted and warned that it is important not to leave anyone behind, particularly people, businesses and institutions in the social sector. With regard to the institutions of the social sector, the PSD has been insistently alerted that its sub-financing continues to persist. in this sense, in the last State Budget, we presented a proposal that would meet the adjustment needs of this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u97	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u98	Therefore, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PSD Parliamentary Group would like to know what the NAP's opinion on these matters is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u99	The next request for clarification lies with the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u100	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would also like to congratulate you on the topic you have brought us to the political statement you have made here, starting with the fact that the CFP has presented, at the head of the State budget, but not only because we have also done so throughout this legislature, a broad set of proposals precisely for the defence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are those that have been strongly affected by the reality that we are living today. We have argued that we need to create the necessary conditions for maintaining the activity of these companies, including in several sectors that have been strongly affected by the outbreak, such as restoration, tourism and various sectors of services, and we have presented enlargements proposed in this regard. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to ensure that workers and populations have wages and income so that there can be a dynamisation of the internal market that will enable our economy to survive effectively. And that is also what we would like to ask you about some questions that have exactly to do with the guarantee of wages to workers who are in layoff, in addition to the CFP proposed in the State budget, which is also proposed for public support mechanisms to maintain employment, specifically aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they can in fact have the conditions to continue to ensure the wages of these workers. This, for us, is absolutely fundamental, because of what is also guaranteed under the conditions of many families in our country, which, as the honourable Member mentioned here, are minimal and dignified living conditions. In conclusion, there are also other issues that mattered here from the point of view of social support itself. I am referring to questions relating to the social protection of many who do not access a set of social protection instruments, also having the CFP presented here several proposals in order to ensure the social protection of many workers. But at the same time as these emergency measures are guaranteed, substantial and transversal measures must be taken, particularly in combating precariousness and unemployment, but also in defending jobs and prohibiting redundancies, as proposed by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u101	Mrs Diana Ferreira, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u102	Even to conclude, what we would also like to ask the honourable Member is if she does not understand that, in addition to emergency measures to respond to the present moment, fundamental measures must be taken at the same time so that the reality we are living today will not be repeated in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u103	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u104	Mr President, Mrs Helga Correia, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Obviously, for the NAP, the existence of support for the social economy is essential, which we cannot understand is how this House, in the context of the State budget, and the PSD here also has responsibilities, rejected a proposal aimed at ensuring the extension of social support in the field of the social economy to non-governmental organisations of public utility, which have thus been prevented from using such support. As we have mentioned, it is essential to ensure that this support network exists in the country and we know the importance of the tertiary sector in support of homeless people, the LGBT community (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transvestite and transsexual), women's rights, particularly in the context of violence, and non-governmental organizations themselves. We therefore welcome the concern expressed here, noting that the NAP will resume the initiatives it has put forward and bring them back, precisely so that this House will have a new opportunity to discuss these support in a more thorough manner. We hope that the PSD will not turn its face to the proposals of the NAP, nor to those that are the fundamental responses to the country. With regard to the Supplementary Budget and the measures that have not been implemented, we fully accompany this concern. Moreover, the NAP has already had an opportunity to question the Government in this regard. Even in hearings that we have already done in this House to the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security himself, we also had the opportunity to ask for these clarifications. It is clear that not only the support that is being granted but also the criteria for these same support must be verified, because people cannot be held hostage to bureaucracy and even less unjust criteria that are not allowing support to be given to families. A very clear example of this, and even taking the question from the honourable Member regarding further measures for this crisis, is that people cannot be held hostage by a crisis that has withdrawn structural funds from them until they pay their own obligations to the State. Then one thing was the situation that we had at the beginning of the pandemic, in which it could be understandable that anyone who had debts would not benefit from the support, but, at the end of all these months, it is impossible that, with the closed shops, with the closed companies, there is a fund of management and capacity to respond to the contractual obligations and even with the State. in this sense, Mrs Deputies, of course there is a much deeper way to make, not only from the point of view of emergency responses, but from the restructuring we have to do and from what we have to think, in terms of economic recovery, in order to achieve a capacity of greater resilience. It is not worth continuing to cover this blanket full of holes, because otherwise we will not be able to give the answer that people and families need so much. So we follow the concerns you have shown here and we will continue to work in this direction, to give answers to employers and workers, because an economy is made precisely of both concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u105	We moved on to the second set of requests for clarification. Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u106	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, we cannot ignore that the speech that the honourable Member has made here today is made less than a week after the NAP has made the State Budget viable. And, frankly, I find it extraordinary that, from the point of view of the analysis of social support to which Portuguese have access at the moment, a party like the NAP, which one week ago made possible, on the one hand, the political options of the Government which is responsible for the lack of social response and, on the other hand, the financial instruments which, according to Mrs Inês Sousa Real, are insufficient to give that answer, have the courage to address this matter to Parliament today. It is because the CDS also had approved proposals and other rejected proposals in the social area and, as you felt that this balance sheet was not balanced, the State budget was voted against. We cannot, on Friday one week, make the State Budget possible, and on Thursday next week, say that it is all wrong, after all, that restaurants entrepreneurs do not have support, that families do not have support, that institutions do not have support. So, why don't you have support? Because the Budget is not enough for that! And who made it possible for the Budget? The PAN! Madam Member, if you will allow me, you have to answer for this, too. So the first thing I asked him was what happened between Friday last and today that allowed the NAP to see today the shortcomings that last Friday, when he made the Budget viable, he did not see. My second very concrete question is about a problem that affects many Portuguese people. Whether last Monday or next Monday, the government unilaterally decreed point tolerance. Many Portuguese workers working in the private sector or working in essential functions of the State itself will have to go to work, but their children will stay at home. The suggestion these Portuguese people had was that they mark vacations, which is absolute abuse...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u107	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u108	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the suggestion that these Portuguese were to enjoy their holidays, which is an absolute abuse of workers' rights, that is to say, to enjoy their holidays free. What I ask you is what the NAP, which made the Budget viable, has to tell the Portuguese that they still don't know what they're going to do on Monday, having their children at home and having to go to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u109	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u110	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, with the pandemic situation we have, we need support for the economy which is indeed speedy, capable and adaptable to the situation and which is, of course, offset from the point of view of maintaining employment and also from the commitments relating to the maintenance of workers' activities and rights. And there are things you don't realize about the barriers that are placed on access to these supports. For example, a performance plan to regulate a debt, whether it is taxed or social security, should not prevent a company or, in the case of, for example, an independent worker from accessing support, because it already has a plan to regulate that debt. On the other hand, we also need social support that responds to the workers who are in trouble. And from this point of view, we face today the effect of structural problems that we have on social protection in Portugal. First problem: the unemployment benefit coverage ratio remains very low. Even if it has risen, a large number of unemployed workers still do not have access to unemployment benefit and others lose it because we continue with the grant periods coming from 2012. On the other hand, we have a protection in unemployment which does not yet allow many families to come out of a poverty situation and self-employed workers continue to have protection, a support that is insignificant. From that point of view, we are concerned that the solution which came out of this Parliament for 2021 is not robust enough and that it is even worse for many workers than it is in 2020. On the other hand, we also have many workers who are outside the social protection mechanisms, either because they are informal workers, either because they do not have access to protection in an experimental period of unemployment, either because they are referred to as « precarious employees on platforms», that is, they are in a situation of a kind of limbo between a condition of employer and a condition of precarious worker, but, in all cases, they are outside social protection. That is why I ask you, Member of Parliament, if you do not consider these robust support to the economy to be a priority and that the rules for granting unemployment subsidies should be changed and that support for self-employed workers should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u111	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u112	The balance sheet that we make of what came out of the Budget was much less than what would be necessary for 2021. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u113	The last request for clarification will be made by Mr Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u114	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, social support is a very important tool in combating poverty and inequality. This is and has always been the vision of the PS. Since 2015, the last year in which the PSD and CDS have ruled, the PS government, also with the support of the NAP, has already increased social benefits by 25 %. It is EUR 5 billion more in social support than the right-wing government has invested. If social support, even with the growing economy, is important, in crises they become essential. Therefore, the State budget for 2021 responds to the health, social and economic urgency with which we are faced in this pandemic: it is good for workers because it protects employment, it is good for companies because it guarantees support and now also for members-managers, it is good for the social state because it strengthens the SNS, the public school, social security and the fight against poverty and it is good support for families, because it protects their income. Mrs Deputy, even if not satisfying all the NAP claims, the Budget responds to this crisis, increasing social support, contrary to what the right did from 2012 to 2015, and which is now doing in the Azores, where one of the points of the agreement concluded between the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival is in the direction of the cuts in social support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u115	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u116	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, what I ask you is the path that the NAP understands as correct: the path of the Socialist Party, the increase of social support to cope with the crisis, or the path of the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival, which is to be cut again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u117	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u118	Mr. João Almeida, on the issues you have raised to me, I would like to make it clear that the NAP has not, at any time, exempted itself from its responsibilities, continuously presenting solutions to situations that believe they are unfair to the country, as well as, in the field of state budget expertise, contributed to a budget that is not only for the year 2021, but which is directed towards the resumption of an unprecedented economic crisis in our country. in this sense, Mr President, I would like to remind you one thing: the budget which entered here was a government budget, but the budget which came out of here was a budget of this Parliament. And I do not want to defend the government, of course, there is something that I cannot but say to you, Mr President: the NAP has not resigned from presenting amendments to this budget, which have in fact also been welcomed by both the Socialist Party, which supports the Government, or some of them, on the right. But there were right-wing responses which you also rejected, such as the responses to the companies, of which you call themselves friends, but at the time of voting, you stand aside from what was supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u119	Which one? Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u120	Mr President, if you had been attentive to the debate, you would have found that we have already announced proposals for companies to address, for example, what is spending with their professionals, in the same way that this Budget comes to answer in social matters, which is not the right revenue, i.e. the income of austerity, but rather a greater strengthening of what is social support. Do you not agree, for example, with the support of homeless people, such as the Housing First projects, in which we can not only translate continuity support to respond to the country, but also ensure that there is a robustness of these same needs, the fight against trafficking in human beings or even, in terms of Layoff, the continuity of these programmes? It is true, Mr President — and we agree in this at all — that there is still a way to go. But opening the door to a political crisis over what is an unprecedented socio-economic crisis, this irresponsibility we do not assume, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u121	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u122	If the CDS wants to call you, it's your problem, but the PAN takes responsibility for what the Portuguese need. This is not about political show-off, but about responses to real and absolute needs at this difficult time for the country, and without passing through the recipe of austerity, which we all know and that has closed many companies in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u123	You'll see what he gives!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u124	In the face of a health crisis, there should not be repeated an absolutely failed recipe, an absolutely unnecessary path. With regard to the questions put by Mr Soeiro, I can of course agree with the need to revisit the benefit plans for access to support. As I have already had the opportunity to mention here, it is absolutely essential that what is today a performance payment programme does not result in a debt assumption, even more so with companies closing doors. Because when we have, in fact, an absolutely devastated economic sector, there will be no economy to recover and save. So, as I mentioned earlier, we went along with the need to revisit these instruments...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u125	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u126	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, we went along with the need to revisit these instruments and ensure that the support comes to those who need it, so that no one will be left behind. With regard to the revenue to combat this crisis, of course, that for the NAP will never be that of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u127	We turn to the political declaration of the Green Party. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today bring the CTT process as the subject of their political declaration. And we do it for two reasons. On the one hand, because, despite the pandemic, the defence of the public interest is not confined, and on the other hand, because by completing the TTC contract at the end of this month, this will most likely be the last opportunity to discuss the matter before any decision on the future of that company. As is public, the eight trade unions of CTT workers have been on strike during these days. The reasons that have led workers to this form of struggle are linked to the defence of wage increases, because workers, in all fairness, demand increases rather than prizes awarded with obscure criteria. But, at the origin of this struggle, there are also two other important factors. On the one hand, the workers intend to defend the Post Offices of Portugal from whom they want to use them for other purposes, and on the other hand, the admission of workers in sufficient numbers to provide the quality service to which the whole country was used before privatisation. And it is precisely here that the Greens want to begin this political declaration, that is, because of the need to return to the Portuguese the quality service that the country was used to before privatization. And at a time when the CTT contract for universal postal service is about to come to an end, it is time to make decisions. Decisions which, on behalf of the public interest, require first and foremost a balance sheet of what represented the privatisation of a company such as TTCs. And, if we make this balance sheet, what we can conclude is that the decision of the PSD/CDS government to hand over the TTCs to the private, which, it is recalled, were sold in stock, still at a price far below the market, is having very negative consequences, both for the State, and for the populations, and also for the workers themselves. On the one hand, the State of revenue needed to respond to social policies was deprived. It is recalled that, as a public company, TTCs contributed important revenues to the state’s safes every year and, at the same time, provided high-quality public service. at the end of these years, the state has already lost hundreds of millions of euros in dividends and the country no longer has a reliable and safe public mail service. On the other hand, the decision to privatize TTCs ended up subjecting citizens to constant degradation of one of the most important goods of public interest: mails, which are a fundamental service for the people, for the development of the country and for territorial cohesion, because they contribute to mitigating social and economic imbalances. The truth is that, after these six years of privatization, it is now perfectly evident that the growing fragility and discharacterization of mail services is growing. Examples are not missing: since the privatization of TTCs, hundreds of stations and posts have been closed; buildings have been sold; hundreds of postal prescriptions have been removed from the public street; workers have been fired; precarious links have increased; they have increased the routes of each distribution turn, as well as waiting times for service. But we do not stay here: there is a lack of money available at the stations for the payment of pensions and other social benefits and there are delays, which have already reached two weeks, in the delivery of postal vouchers with the pensions. The situations in which mail was no longer distributed daily became widespread. There are even places in the country where the postman only spends once a week and in others little more than that. There are entire populations that are forced to travel several kilometres to the nearest station, often without transport or conditions to do so, such as the systematic use of temporary work enterprises and service providers, among many other examples that could be mentioned here. In short, privatization brought less quality, fewer jobs, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage and more charges for people. In fact, to this obvious degradation of the service it is still necessary to add the increase of tariffs, which since privatisation have already risen more than 55 %. In other words, in the balance sheet, and as a result of privatization, citizens pay more and the offer of service is lower, while workers have seen their working conditions suffer substantial backwardness. In good rigour, what is happening in the TTCs is not even worthy of a rule of law. Shareholders continue to take over, in the form of dividends, all profits generated by the company and even to distribute dividends above profits, completely decapitalizing TTCs. Only between 2013 and 2016 more than 270 million euros were distributed into dividends, i.e. about 1 / 3 of the total privatisation revenue. In addition, the fact that the CTT Bank has been implemented on the structure of mail stations, operating in the premises and with the mail workers, which are diverted from the desks of the postal services to the counters of the bank service, which is causing a substantial increase in the waiting lines. The administration definitely refers the postal service to a second or third plane because what is now of interest is the CTT Bank and only the CTT Bank. In summary, six years after the privatisation of TTCs, there is no doubt that progress must be made with the process of reversing the privatisation of TTCs, so that their ownership and management will return to the sphere of the State. Only in this way can we return to the Portuguese the quality service to which the country was used before privatization. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u129	The Bureau shall record four entries for requests for clarification, and Mr José Luís Ferreira informed that he will respond to groups of two. First of all, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there have been ten legislative initiatives brought to this House for the nationalisation or public control of the capital of the TTCs. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, Portugal faces an endless pandemic crisis. Portugal faces a growing economic crisis, with unemployment and failures, with special significance for the drama of tourism-dependent sectors — hotels, restaurants, animation — well visible at the door of this House. In Portugal, there is a social crisis with unpredictable consequences. Portugal also presents public accounts in red and public debt to achieve unimaginable values and with obvious deviations in the country's governance. In the face of all this, the ENP proposes: "Let's do what we haven't achieved yet, nationalize or control the TTCs! Do not keep on seeking. ” Dear Members, throughout the various debates, the Portuguese have already realized that what is at stake is not the quality of the postal service, but the ideological options behind the left parties, some with the call of the Socialist Party. in the context of profound changes in the sector configuration, with the increase in the postal order, the TTCs have made a huge financial and human resources effort to adjust to new realities, especially in response to the demands of trade, electronic commerce, digital commerce, our trade and our companies. And in view of this, what has the Government and the Socialist Party done? They failed to undertake to launch the public tender for the concession until 31 October, as announced publicly, calling into question the stability of the sector and existing agreements, in particular with the distribution of the written press. It's time, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government of the Socialist Party assume their responsibilities in managing the problems rather than continuing to play with companies, as does TAP, and to systematically revisit a distant past. In the face of all this, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I would like to ask you two questions. First: will the ENP initiative still be a counterpart to the negotiations of its abstention in the vote on the State budget? Second question: at this time of great difficulties for Portugal and the Portuguese, is this ENP initiative to take seriously or merely to mark the political agenda of your party? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u131	To make requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u132	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, obviously I welcome the ENP for bringing the debate to such an important issue for our country, which has to do with the TTCs and their role. First of all, I would also like to extend a greeting to the CTT workers, who have been on strike this week for better working conditions, for wage updates, which have not been done for several years, and also because in practice they are defending a company that is absolutely essential to our country. Secondly, I would like to leave a note on what actually brought us here an old debate that we have already had several times in Parliament, i.e. the privatisation debateversus nationalisation or the company's public management. We have said it before and, listening to the right, it is not too much to repeat it: there is no one in this country who, with a serious face, can defend the privatization that has been done in the TTCs. As Mr Luís Ferreira said well in his political statement — and we have had several opportunities to say in this Parliament — if there is an example of a privatisation that clearly caused damage to what was a public service and to the State itself was the privatization of TTCs. The way in which it was sold, at the balance price, was one of the biggest mistakes that was made, with the destruction of heritage of the decline of the capillary network of posts and stations, which has a fundamental role of social response to Portuguese, especially in the interior regions. The Portuguese have, over several years, seen various services to be withdrawn, and also those of the CTTs, and, of course, the distribution of dividends of what they have and what they do not have. The privatisation of TTCs cannot be defended by anyone who wants to be serious in this debate. And the question I leave you with, Mr President, is whether we agree that if we are now taking some decisions on the TTCs, that decision is already late. We have always defended the need for public management, the return to state and the management of TTCs themselves to the public record.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u133	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. So, honourable Member, in this scenario, and precisely because of the crisis we are going through and the social role that the CTTs have, I ask you if you do not think that this is the best option we can take right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u135	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u136	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen Jorge Salgueiro Mendes and Isabel Pires the questions that have been asked to me. I begin by replying to Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, who says that there have already been ten initiatives on TTCs, and I don't know how long. But you know, Mr President, even though there have been many discussions and initiatives that are likely to have been, we will certainly insist, or at least try to understand how the PSD is in relation to TTCs. And I'll explain why. We have heard several times several Members of the PSD — including Mr Jorge Mendes, in the last discussion here on the subject — saying that the PSD was obliged to privatize the TTCs and that they were opposed to privatizing the TTCs. If they were opposed to the privatisation of TTCs because of the troika that forced them to do so, what makes them now to vote in favour of the reversal of privatization, since they were so opposed? In addition, Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes says that these are ideological options. Of course these are ideological options, we haven't come here to discuss domino, we've come here to discuss politics! [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] So what I'm saying is that the ideological option that led to the privatization of CTTs, perhaps, as your Vice-President David Justino says, was that liberal rush, because it only justifies privatizing a company like CTTs. Mr President, I also have to tell you, now in the light of information, the following: we did not present any initiative today, this was a political statement. He said « this ENP initiative is a counterpart because of the State budget ». Mr President, I do not know which initiative you are talking about, the Greens have brought here no legislative initiative to discuss, so the answer is given with one question: which initiative, Mr President? Mrs Isabel Pires, in fact, the CTTs were a bad example in terms of privatization. No one understands how a company that made profits to the State, that treated workers well and that provided a high-quality service, recognized up to the international level, has been privatized. There is no reasonable justification for arguing in defence of the privatisation of TTCs and, indeed, I conclude, Mr President — we believe that their management should be public. And as we are in crisis, that is another reason for the reversal of the privatisation of TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u138	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I didn't make any signal for you to finish, the honourable Member is that you intend to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u139	Mr. President was looking at me! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u140	Sir, I will stop looking at whoever it is! ...and finally, you will manage your time as you understand. You now have the floor, also to make requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u141	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the CFP, we would like to welcome and greatly appreciate the political statement that the Green Party brought to this plenary session today...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u142	That's not what I was waiting for! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u143	... and the rigorous, true and powerful portrait of the unacceptable situation that is being experienced in the company, in the CTT Group and in the postal public service in our country. We continue to see the contempt with which the PSD looks at the situation of CTT populations and workers. We see not only the complicity and privatizing obsession of the entire right, but also the convience and irresponsibility of the government and the PS, who are afraid to let go of time,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u144	... that they fear to make problems worse, without in fact there is a response to a political problem that needs to be addressed, which is the question of public administration of the postal services, which must be once and for all treated and decided at the level of political power in Portugal. We want, from here, the House, to address a warm greeting, of great respect and appreciation, to the workers of the postal services, who this week carry out an important struggle, another important struggle journey in defence of their rights, by the general increase in wages, which the company rejects to the workers, while over the years it has accumulated hundreds of millions of euros in dividends to the shareholders, in a genuine marriage to the rich to benefit those who have appropriated this fundamental company to our country, while the populations and small businesses suffer from the disabilities of the service, while the small publications in general of the regional press are faced with serious problems and with a deep concern in the uncertainty as to what will happen from 1 January 2021. in this context, even more urgent is the need, in fact, to reverse the privatization of the postal services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u145	Sir, I'm looking at you...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u146	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the question I really wanted to address to the honourable Member is whether it does not consider that time is urgent and that every day, every week that is being spent in this process is time lost and damage to the State, the country and the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u147	For a final request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Green Party on choosing the subject of its political declaration. CTTs are a historic company in our country. It is 500 years of history, 500 years of extreme importance for territorial cohesion, for the economy and development of our country. In 2013 and 2014, the government of the height, led by the PSD and the CDS, privatized the company. It was beyond the troika. He defended the full privatisation of the company, unlike the one pointed out by the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u149	Do you have any idea what you're saying? That's absurd!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u150	In 2014 there was no obligation to privatize the remaining 30 % as was done. In addition, the fit was well below the market price. It sold for EUR 900 million a company of enormous importance and strategic capital for the country. A historic mistake! Here we spoke in domino games, but no, this was not a domino game, it was a monopolie game, in which the country was the great harm. -This is a historic mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u151	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u152	The PSD and CDS like to talk about the interior, but it was the privatization of the CTTs that led to the closure of many of their stations in our country. Portugal is today one of the few countries with a fully privatized postal service. Ideological experimentation was what PSD and CDS did, when they were in government, in relation to decisions on TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u153	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u154	An intransigent defence of the quality of service has been what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has defended in this matter. We defend that all the municipalities in the country have a CTT station, and this draft resolution we have tabled had the vote against the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u155	Just one? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u156	We also advocate that service quality levels — delivery time, access posts and the regularity and reliability of the service — be met. We know that we are at a decisive point in terms of TTCs, a crucial point in relation to the universal public service contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u157	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, as always, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government argue that all scenarios must be on the table, including that of the State to have a public participation in the TTCs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u159	To answer, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor, to whom I promise not to look again with an inquisitive look!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u160	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Bruno Dias and Mr Hugo Costa. In fact, if the contract is ending it's time to make decisions and what we think would be important is to make a debt balance and there are advantages and disadvantages of this privatisation period, because if we don't learn from mistakes, we're not doing anything here. When we make this balance sheet we see that privatization has indeed been bad for the state, bad for the citizens and bad for the workers, because privatization has brought less quality, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, more fraud of the heritage, more charges for the people, and workers have seen their working conditions suffer a substantial retreat. Therefore, this is the result of the privatization that was made by the PSD Government and the CDS, who said they were opposed but who did so, and who now refuse to reverse that decision. In fact, Mr Bruno Dias is right, time is urgent, and the faster it is for the development of the country, the better for the quality of public service, the better for the people, the better for the workers of the TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u161	It was late yesterday!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u162	Mr Hugo Costa, in fact, it is appropriate to say that EUR 900 million for a company like CTT was a business from China made in a store of 300! But that was the business that the PSD and CDS did, a business of 900 million! Mr. Members, only in three years the shareholders have recovered a third of the capital they have invested! We are talking about numbers and, therefore, if there are no arguments against facts, there will certainly be no numbers either. I would like to record, Mr Hugo Costa, the fact that the Socialist Party keeps all the scenarios on the table. We will expect that the choice chosen, according to these scenarios, is the one that best represents the public interest, because it is necessary to bring the public interest for decisions, especially when we speak of a company with the importance that the TTCs have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u163	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u164	We now move on to the political declaration of the Socialist Party. To that end, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Perhaps some think that here, in the House of Democracy, we live only to approve Budgets and laws, but that is only the formal aspect of our mission. Truly, we are here, each with his own convictions, to respond to people's concrete lives. Now, we're here to protect health. To protect people and families affected by the breakdown of economic activity, employment, income. To preserve the companies affected by the crisis and of which we need to re-enter the economy. To respond to our parents and grandparents and our children and grandchildren, to overcome the enormous pressure that we are all subject to, within the aggravated inequalities. This is why we approved a Combat Budget, a Budget not to combat opposition, but to combat the crisis, which highlights: extension up to 2021 of support for progressive recovery, without any wage cuts up to three minimum wages; State guarantees for credit lines to support companies' treasury; reinforcement and extension of unemployment allowances; new social benefits, which will protect 250 000 people with income breakdown, including managers, self-employed and informal workers, and professional internships; prohibition of cutting in services essential to those affected by the breakdown of income; extraordinary increase of lower pensions; risk of pandemic benefit; strengthening of the main instrument for supporting young housing; plus 15 million euros for higher education institutions investing in student housing; strengthening of school social action; wage recruitment of over 4200 health professionals for the SNS; the creation of five community teams for social security for ment; and employment for ment; and employment for ment 5 workers. People covered by these measures, because we cannot abandon them in a hooded sea, the PSD calls them « customers ». to strengthen public services, the PSD must be close to calling again "state fats". The PSD chooses the peak of the tsunami to return to the minimal state theory. We are proud of these necessary measures. Many happened on a proposal from the Socialists, others on a proposal from other parties, including the CFP, because we wanted and were able to dialogue and establish commitments with those who wanted and knew how to come to the challenge of improving a budget that was already very good in the initial proposal. What we could not do was give the PSD show, which has not yet entered into force by the Budget, is already wrapped up in the exercise of inventing future ways of correcting the disparities in which it embarked on 25. The hour. However, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not overcome the pandemic or the crisis by budgetary measures alone. The crisis can only be overcome with social cohesion, with solidarity mobilization, with the correct individual and collective attitudes, without yielding to demagogy. Many people are suffering and afraid, many professionals are tired, even exhausted, and therefore it is understandable that sometimes serenity is lost. What we can no longer accept is the exploitation of the suffering of others, which is what some who shout « close! When it's open and "open!" When it is closed, they ask for restrictions and then criticize them, which do not look at international comparisons to understand that Portugal has made a huge effort of balance and weighting on the measures it takes, trying to balance health, freedom and economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u167	There are too many people exhibiting too much certainty, in a framework where it is essential to understand the intrinsic uncertainty of the situation. There is a phrase by Frank M. Snowden in his book Epidemics and Society — from Black Peste to Present, which deserves reflection. Cito : « It is said that the generals tend to fight the previous war again, thus confronting new enemies with inadequate strategies of the past. The same can be said of the public health authorities over the centuries. Do not keep on seeking. ” Why does this matter? Because there's a lot about this pandemic that we don't know yet, neither the scientists nor us. Just to give an example, WHO (World Health Organization) has just made the fourth update of the guidance on the use of the mask, because we continue to learn and correct, but there are Members who, as they are shooting, criticize WHO, the health authorities, everything and everyone, because only they know. There are also those who want definitive measures for everything and who criticize extraordinary measures, but temporary measures, which are resizable, adaptable to life's evolution are the measures we need, because we do not know what the world will be like in six months. Instead of a glorious rigid plan, full of certainty, we need the ability to adapt the response to changes in circumstances. The policy needs to learn how to respond to uncertainty and let go of the leaders of chair dogmas. Mr. President and Mr. Members: Overcoming the crisis and regaining the common future is not just a technical issue, it is a civic task, which requires all of us to commit ourselves to citizenship. There are behaviors that we all understand are useful — washing hands, wearing masks, keeping away, reducing mobility; on the contrary, there are purely destructive behaviors. The polemics of pure party chicana, demagogy, the inciting of confrontation, parasiticing the suffering of people, should be replaced by a deep sense of reciprocity. As has already been said: "My mask protects you, your mask protects me", now that the COVID vaccine comes there, we know that "your vaccine protects me, my vaccine protects you". Then we will give a concrete and relevant application to that just word of Pope Francis: "No one saves himself" — because, indeed, no one saves himself! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u168	Mr Porfirio Silva, your political statement has prompted the inclusion of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u169	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u170	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, Portugal is one of the three European countries that will suffer greater economic and social destruction and, however, according to data from the European Commission, is one of the countries that less budgetary stimulus has granted in 2020, and will grant in 2021 to respond to businesses and families. Listening to the political statement by the honourable Member and listening to the Government about the State budget, no one would say, because the measures are repeated to exhaustion. But at the end of the day, these are measures that are either not new or require regulation, and the government has already shown to be completely incompetent in ensuring the speed and implementation of these measures. I give two examples which, I believe, well illustrate the disappointment and inability of the government in this regard. First example: the APOIAR.PT programme, which was announced about a month ago, with 750 million euros in depth lost to support companies in the restoration, trade, services and culture. However, we have learned that this programme excludes companies which have simplified accounting up to €200 000 of individual entrepreneurs, although these entrepreneurs are up to date with their tax and tax obligations. This is an infamous injustice. He has no name! The government did not make any compensation and did as it did in relation to other measures we already know, i.e. announced a measure, but then we realized that the universe of the people to whom it was applied is much lower than it was announced. And then, when we're going to find out if these measures have been open for enough time, we've found that, for example, the measure to support the managers has been open for a week and the announcements have hardly been made public.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u172	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u173	Therefore, often the measures are of a zero sum: the government announces something, but then it applies something completely different, as has been shown in the reports of the European Commission and of other international entities in this regard. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u174	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u175	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva said that this was a combat budget, and it is a budget to combat restoration, trade and tourism, so that they have not yet been able to resolve a simple protest that is before the Assembly of the Republic I do not know how many days ago. That's the combat budget you have! It is also a Budget to combat nurses, when they are unable to give a sign of positive discrimination to those in the front line at one of the most sensitive moments of their work. It is also a budget for combating taxpayers, because the PS has not ceased to approve new rates and not reduce the tax burden when the Portuguese most needed the support of the Socialist Party and the Government. Mr Porfirio Silva also said that this was a solidarity budget. I don't know how a solidarity budget leaves 2, 1 million pensioners without updating. How does a solidarity budget leave more than 2 million pensioners, who have contributed their entire lives to the contribution system, outside of the very fair update they should have this year? Mr Porfirio Silva said that the country is in crisis and that this is a combat budget. He quoted Pope Francis and said no one saves himself. You're right, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u176	Watch out, you don't like Pope Francis!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u177	But one thing this Budget has already shown is that the PS is not going to save the country either. It is that if Pope Francis is right when he says that no one saves himself, with this Budget we already know that the country will not be saved with the Socialist Party. So I would like to ask you this question: how can you say that this is a solidarity budget, when it leaves more than 2 million pensioners out of the update next year in Portugal? What is the solidarity that exists, when the vast majority of pensioners are out of their fair update in Portugal this year? And how is it possible for this to be a Combat Budget, when it cannot exempt from the TSU (unique social rate) the professionals of the restoration and the entrepreneurs, at the time that the breaks were the greatest in their history?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u178	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, if you would like to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u179	I will finish, Mr. President. They asked for help five years ago and now they can't give them 1 cent back!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u180	You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the CFP, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u181	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, in his political statement, referred to a trilogy: health, freedom and economics. That was it, wasn't it? Mr President, I believe that there are actually three aspects that should be retained at the moment that the country is going through. Obviously, it is necessary that what was approved in the State Budget for 2021 of strengthening the National Health Service is effectively implemented. We ended this year of 2020, whose budget was approved before the pandemic, without the corrective budget from our point of view corresponding to what was needed. The 2021 Budget is a progress in this matter, but it is important that it is promptly fulfilled and executed. In other words, it is important that the announced and approved strengthening of the National Health Service — for which, as you have pointed out, the CFP has made its contribution to make this possible — is indeed accomplished so that it can be felt at this difficult time and that in the year 2021 the National Health Service has its capacity to respond, in the face of the enormous difficulties with which it will certainly be faced. The second aspect which you have referred to is freedom, and that is, for us, to say, extremely important. Freedom with responsibility is a fundamental issue. In other words, life must resume its normality and that there is no pretext for states of emergency or the pretext of the pandemic, the intention to reduce fundamental freedoms and rights. They must be exercised with a sense of responsibility and each of them must assume its responsibilities in this matter. In other words, it is not to claim responsibility for others and then we are not taking it into our own hands.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u182	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u183	I conclude by stressing the need for support for the economy. That's fundamental. One of the lessons of the first state of emergency and confinement was that they had terrible consequences for the economy. From our point of view, we must not make this mistake again. In other words, economic activities must be supported and can, above all, be resumed in security. That, for us, is a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u184	The next request for clarification, the penultimate, lies with Mr João Gonçalves Pereira of the CDS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, the Socialist Party, in this political statement, brings the theme « the response to the crisis ». The first question I would like to ask is whether the Socialist Party is in a quiet conscience. Do you have a calm conscience? Oh, my God! It seems that they have a bearing on the conscience that compels you to bring to this debate the question of response to the crisis. I will no longer comment on the latest intervention and the dialogue between the Socialist Party and the Communist Party. Looks like there's a new time, which we're going to watch in the next few days. With regard to the response to the crisis, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether his conscience is really calm. The answer to this question goes, for example, by looking outside, at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, and verifying that there is a movement, the movement « The Bread and Water », which has a petition with more than 75,000 signatures. The question is this: why do the Socialist Party and the Government insist not to listen to those who represent the desperate state of a sector such as restoration and nighttime activity? They are sectors that are paralysed and have pushed thousands and thousands of Portuguese people into unemployment. So I ask you if your conscience is quiet. Now, let's talk about support. We have heard several things, from the simplified layoffs to the lost fund issue. Mr. Deputies, you should be ashamed to speak deeply lost. The lost fund for companies would have been useful in March or April at the beginning of the pandemic. I would have saved jobs, saved businesses, saved income from families. When does the lost background appear? Oh, my God! It's coming up in November. I would also like to ask you a quick question, because time is flying — and I will now finish, Mr President — on the Development Bank, which is what it wants to be as such an instrument to support the economy and businesses. According to some news yesterday, the Development Bank left the paper, but a month later it didn't pass from a site. I ask you, honourable Member, when the Development Bank is actually going to be able to support our companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u186	The last request for clarification will be for Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Porfirio Silva, came to make a diagnosis, a characterization of the current situation that the country is experiencing, which is complicated, as is obvious, and very difficult, to come to the conclusion that the Government of the Socialist Party's Budget serves to deal with this situation. It's no use, sir, it's no use! In fact, I give you an example: the explanatory note given by the Ministry of Health, therefore its own government, to the Assembly of the Republic on the State Budget shows that it is not useful, because it foresees that in 2021 the National Health Service will do fewer consultations and fewer surgeries than it did in 2019. Now, when everyone knows that health needs are much greater, that there is planned activity that has been unprogrammed and that will have to be recovered in 2021 and that the requirement on the National Health Service will be much greater, what the government expects is that it will do less. Why? Because the Government budget of the Socialist Party does not give the National Health Service the resources it needs. The honourable Member also said that generals tend to respond to wars in the light of previous wars. Trying to take the war metaphor out of the debate, I just wanted the government not to respond to the immediate future as it responded to the immediate past. How? For example, promising support, which they did not arrive; announcing support for informal workers, when none of them received any kind of support; responding with precarious contracts for the National Health Service, when this Service needed effective and permanent workers to reinforce the response. Now, what is expected is that the government does not fear to continue to respond badly, as it has responded in the most recent past. Moreover, what was to be expected at this time was that if you were announcing a strong wave of contracts to ensure, for example, vaccination to all people made in the National Health Service. And that wasn't announced. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u188	In the next 3 minutes, Mr Porfirio Silva will respond to all these requests for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u189	Mr. President, thank you all. Members who have asked questions and I apologize for not quoting everyone's names so as not to spend my response time. I'm going to start by answering Mr. André Ventura. Mr President, we do not want to resolve the protests, we want to solve the problems underlying the protests, and that is what we are committed to. But one thing is certain: if we were to do what you put in the electoral programme of the Arrival, i.e. to end the National Health Service, to end the public school, I don't know how many more things — the program that you then hid — took him out of the website for no one to see — if we had done that, nothing could be solved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u190	Stop being hypocritical, don't change your position every day, and then we talk! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, no, we have no shame and we have a calm conscience. We know that not everything has been done perfectly, because it is not possible to do everything perfectly in these circumstances, but you must go over your notes to see that some of the things you said were not done were actually done in time and at the beginning of the pandemic. Let's see! And don't explore the despair of others. Do not join the colleague who is sitting behind you to explore the despair of others, because despair is not to explore audiences, nor to exploit people; it is to be resolved. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] Mr. Cristovão Norte, the PSD has already got used to us... it's more or less like those who took the program from the site: one day, it says one thing and the other day, it says another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u191	It's like the Development Bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u192	The PSD, one day, says that the PS wants to give everything to everyone, that promises to give everything to everyone and then says that after all, it doesn't, after all, it doesn't. What the PSD should be looking for is responsible! I am going to tell you the following: a PSD Member, at the exit of the briefing at Infarmed, in June, I repeat, in June and not now, that we are in the second wave, told whoever wanted to hear: "We are already in the second wave! , with the President of the Republic saying: "Things are controlled, we must be calm! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u193	Look at that! See how much the country is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u194	The PSD in June said we were already in the second wave. Stop being prophets of misfortune! [[PSD protests.]] Stop exploring the suffering of others! That would be better for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u196	to Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, I would like to say the following: we have taken note of all that you have said. We learn — at our own expense, perhaps — that we must pay attention to what the CFP says, because even when we do not agree, it is good to hear and discuss what it says. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u197	It's the boyfriend!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u198	But, Mr, I also wanted to say that we would prefer that there was no state of emergency, however, it is not always possible to resolve everything with the solutions we want. The fact that the economy is being harmed, as it is, indeed, by some measures, does not mean that they can always be avoided. There are measures we do not want to take, because they are harsh and harmful, but they are the only possible ones at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u199	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u200	In conclusion, Mr President, without replying first, if I may, Mr Moisés Ferreira. The honourable Member may even be right about some things, but in others, clearly, he does not. For example, your continuing insistence on giving free authorizations to contracting hospitals is a problem because, if we give this authorization to all hospitals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u201	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u202	...they would only continue to have professionals those hospitals that are in the preferred areas, where professionals want to be, and the rest of the country was left without professionals. That's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u203	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u204	But I am still telling you — and I will finish — that if the Left Block had not said, on 11 November, when much work was still needed to be done in the Budget, 'these proposals we have here are not the proposals for departure, they are the proposals for arrival', i.e. if it had not so long presented a final one and said 'or is it or is it nothing', perhaps we could have continued to discuss, because that is what the country was expecting of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u205	You now have the floor for the next political statement on behalf of the PSD, Mr Alexandre Poço.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not easy to be young in Portugal. Any young Portuguese under 35 years of age felt the life marked by the crisis. There is no more constant reality in the lives of new generations than the situation of permanent crisis. Generation after generation, young people cannot synchronize or carry out their life project in our country, in a waste of value and talent. Generation after generation, young people see their dreams postponed, suspended in the promise of a better future, which always ends up committed to the choices and circumstances of the present. The country has not been able to keep up with its younger generations, so we should ask ourselves: what have we done to guarantee more opportunities, to offer more future to young people in our country? at the end of 2020, the new generations are again the most affected by the current pandemic, economic and social crisis. A true compressor roll destroys the present for thousands and thousands of young people in our country and compromises their life plans. We will not have a decent, developed and just country until we have an emancipated, independent youth capable of empowering, able to look to the future with hope. at the end of almost 50 years of democracy and three more decades of European integration, with the significant and unquestionable advances these realities have allowed and consolidated, it is also now undeniable that Portugal remains one of the poorest countries in the European Union, overcome by countries that have been independent for only three decades, such as the Baltic countries or the countries of eastern Europe. Poverty and chronic delay towards Europe brutally equalize every young person's opportunities and life plan. [[PSD applause.]] The young Portuguese are among young Europeans who later leave their parents' home. This is a country in which young people are the age group with a higher risk rate of poverty. With social benefits, almost 20% of young people under the age of 18 are at the threshold of poverty. What country is this? Oh, my God! What country are we building when, even with social transfers, one in five young people lives at the threshold of poverty? Oh, my God! This is a country that records one of the highest youth unemployment rates in the European Union, to which thousands and thousands of young people do not study or work. One in four young Portuguese people is unemployed today. It is urgent to solve this problem, with more answers, more action and much less propaganda, because it does not generate a single job. [[PSD applause.]] This is a country that has a qualified generation, cosmopolitan, Europeanist, open to the world and active in the cultural world, a generation that mobilizes throughout the planet, through citizenship and social responsibility, but does not receive in exchange more than 700 € of monthly salary, even when it has a degree, a master's degree or a doctorate. Young people do not need to continue to hear hollow praises, such as being the most qualified generation ever if this qualification is not accompanied by a remuneration of a developed country, a European country. The new generations require more equal opportunities — economic, social, territorial, cultural —, require a country in which what we achieve in life is more related to the effort of each one and is not sent by a distorted system where coha, favor or network of contacts replace education as a social elevator. [[PSD applause.]] The new generations require a country where those born poor do not have to wait five generations until they leave poverty. The new generations therefore need a country that is capable of having a strong, robust and competitive economy, with a model of sustainable development that allows better wages to be combined with better jobs, which overcomes the chronic delay in Europe, able to take off the flow of the European project. Let's be able, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to take advantage of the new European funds to finally build a Portugal of opportunities! The new generations demand an economy that does not stigmatize those who invest, who start with their own business, an economy that is not buried by fiscal suffocation, who values those who create wealth, a condition without which we will not be able to pay and strengthen the social state. They demand an economy and society that come into the digital world and in which this digital world, the new business models and the advancement of robotics and artificial intelligence mean for all—for the new generations, but also for the older—a country with better opportunities for all. Mrs. Members, the new generations do not give up the country they love and it is in him that they want to build their country and their life plan. We have the capacity not to give up Portuguese youth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that tomorrow 40 years have been noted about the tragic disappearance of Francisco Sá Carneiro. If I were among us, I am sure that I would share this revolt with the present state of our new generations and our country, for which he fought so much. To conclude, I quote: « Portugal is not this, nor must it be this». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u207	Mr Alexandre Poço, your statement has prompted four requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u208	Mr. President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u209	All right, Mr. Deputies. You have the floor for the first request for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u210	Mr President, honourable Member, listening to the PSD, in the role of opposition, to speak as a youth does not fail to remind us of Pôncio Pilatos, who washes the hands of his responsibilities. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, the memory does not fail us and we do not forget that the PSD, when it was government, sent the young people to emigrate, affixed in an all-in, a low-cost tourism model that ran with the young people of our cities. [[PSD protests.]] When we heard the PSD shed crocodile tears because of the right to housing being today a utopia, we do not forget that it was precisely the PSD/CDS government that created the programme of golden visas, which contributed unequivocally to a real estate bubble in cities such as Lisbon and Porto and also in the Algarve region, removing young people from those that have always been their cities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u211	They're there now, in their cities, aren't they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u212	More: we don't need a rear-view mirror, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the present...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u213	Let's go to the present!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u214	...and the concrete proposals presented by the NAP here and which you have raised to reject. We have proposed, for example, that if we end the bad practice of forcing unemployed young people and young people NEET(not in employment educationor training) to have to accept vocational training courses adjusted to their curriculum. What was the meaning of PSD's vote? He voted against, because he lives well with the model that puts a newly licensed in Economics or Law to have, for example, geriatric courses. We proposed that the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) scholarships be ensured more worthy values and that incentives for the conversion of internships into unfinished contracts should be reinforced at the end of the internships. What was the meaning of PSD's vote? Once again, he voted against, because he does not mind seeing the public money being spent on feeding the precariousness of young employment. We proposed a program of internships in the Public Administration that from that source to a stable bond, but the PSD once again voted against, because clearly it does not care about the need to rejuvenate the Public Administration and avoid a PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ) 2.0. [[PSD protests.]] We also proposed that the young person seeking the first job should have an experimental period equal to that of any other worker. E—don't worry, Mr! — once again, what was the point of voting on your bench? It was against! Mr President, that is why we are talking about the rights of young people, about the measures that are at this time on the table and that have to respond to the challenges of our time cannot be just a proclamation flag.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u215	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u216	Mr. President, I will conclude now. What we expect from the PSD as a party to the opposition is that it will accompany and move from words to action.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u217	The next clarification request is for CDS-PP. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexandre Poço, allow me to congratulate you on the subject you have brought and the way you have brought it. In fact, to speak of the new generations and of this renewal in Portugal is to confront a whole model that is established and which inhibits, at all times, what may be the self-determination and initiative of someone who is younger, who wants to create his life project, who wants to create wealth. We ask the following question: that the new generations in Portugal should have the right to assert themselves, what did we need and do not have? We needed to have investment, we needed to have the ability to have resources to invest and to allow the life plan of those who are younger to have legs to walk, of course, depending on the capacity that each one should then have to assert. What did we need? A labour law that facilitates contracting, that it would be easier for companies not to maintain a whole set of acquired rights, but the possibility of giving freedom to those who are younger to have room, too, to develop their projects. We can confront, as you have done, the model we have in Portugal with, for example, what exists in the countries of the East which, as you said a short time ago, have transposed the page of the dictatorship to the page of democracy. You know what the big difference is? Mr President, you will certainly know that these countries, as they have had so many years of left-wing dictatorship, reject socialist models, favouring freedom. This is something that is fundamental to the new generations. A country with a context of freedom, in which the State does not get into everything, in which the State does not charge the small wealth that anyone, in his life, has the right to create is a country where, obviously, young people have more space. In Portugal, however, the socialist model is always preferred and it is not that young people need. Young people need their freedom to have their own project and not that of the state that socialists and the whole left want to impose on us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u219	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u220	Mr President, I ask whether or not we need to turn, too, this page of socialism to freedom, which will make the new generations have much more opportunities to develop their life projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u221	Mr Alexandre Poço, I inform you that the requests for clarification, instead of four, have become five. I wonder if the intention is to answer them together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u222	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u223	All right, Mr. Deputies. The next request for clarification lies with Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the PSD on bringing up an important issue to debate, the issue of young people. We already realize that the intervention was almost answered by Mr. João Almeida, who shares much of the views of the PSD. I don't know if we have exactly a « country country», but it has already been noticed that the CDS has a « country party », whose leader, by chance, is even absent from this debate. It is important that we think about exactly what we are discussing: employment policies, education, access to education and higher education, combating precariousness. Often, the « boot does not beat the partridge » and it is not worth it, whenever the debate is too difficult to become real on the part of the PSD, to speak of one of its most important figures. I don't know if that same figure today would look, for example, at the agreement with the Arrival. It's an important question! I don't know if I would face the precariousness of working relationships that young people are paying and paying dearly at the moment. It would be important to realize that! I don't know if it would look like the privatization that the PSD tried to do about part of education in Portugal. It would be important to know your position on this. But he is not here and therefore people respond by the present, by his actions, by his political positions. I recall that, five years ago, we had a right-wing government that told us it was impossible to lower tips and increase scholarships, but we proved that it was possible to lower tips and increase scholarships. When the right-wing government said that the great propaganda for the problem of unemployment in Portugal was largely entrepreneurship, we said no, that it was more job security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u225	Where he's going! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u226	So it's not worth talking... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] I know that Mr. João Almeida or he speaks for arriving or PSD, but at the moment I am asking a question to Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u227	Mr. Luís Monteiro, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u228	I will finish, Mr. President. When we talk about job security, we don't talk about PSD proposals because the PSD proposals for job security are to facilitate, by tax, companies. These are the same companies that continue to prefer not to hire doctors in Portugal, for example, who prefer to continue to use precarious work just for the younger ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u229	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u230	Therefore, it is not understood that tearing clothes by the PSD when, in fact, what has done most was liberalizing the labour market in Portugal and making life difficult for many and many young people in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u231	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Maria Begonha of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u232	Mr President, Mr Alexandre Poço, of course we do not fail to welcome the PSD on the subject which it brings here today. In the budgetary debate very recently, we had the opportunity to say that, for the Socialist Party, this is of course one of the central challenges of the country, of the development of the country, of the progress we want and that, within the centre of the fight against the economic and social crisis we are experiencing, are the challenges of young people. We have spoken and discussed precisely the problem of our generation, of the newest generations in the country and the fact that, in a short decade, they face a second crisis, which makes it not new, we are a country where the emancipation of young people is difficult. We just want to combat delayed routes, difficulty in access to housing or confrontation with rising youth unemployment. But, Mr President, to whom we hear the PSD intervention it will seem that the country has begun today, that our problems have begun today and that the Social Democratic Party has made a great contribution in recent years to solving the problems of emancipation of young people in Portugal. Mr President, I do not need to remember, but the reality is that in the last five years, year after year, budgets for the protection of employment have been presented in this House. This last budget aimed at the greatest public investment in housing accessibility, education and higher education, i.e. for a set of policies that you identify — and very well! — be precise for the young people of this country. I would like to hear the honourable Member, after we have heard the CDS, but for us, as you know, when the state intervenes, that is freedom. Freedom is achieved only when the State in fact has a public intervention and a role so that all of us can precisely remove the young people from the poverty line.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u233	You must be kidding me! On what planet does he live? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u234	That is why the question which, of course, I have to ask the honourable Member is whether he also understands that we need such a minimum state, which we need to make use of the PSD recipe or austerity, which we need the social state not to fulfil its role in the intervention of young people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u236	We consider the issue differently and we understand that we have approved a Budget that answers many of these problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u237	The last request for clarification will be made by Mrs Alma Rivera of the Portuguese Communist Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Alexandre Poço, the PSD sings well, but does not rejoice and above all does not convince anyone. Mr Deputies said that the new generations were successively seeing their dreams postponed—and we agreed, it is true—that they denied access to work, housing, education, civic participation, associationism, culture, but, when the time of truth comes, no young person can count on the PSD for whatever it is. [[PSD protests.]] When he speaks in the working conditions of young people, he forgets to say that it was the PSD who gave his hand to the Socialist Party, which is so critical, to make a change to the Labour Code that duplicates the experimental period for young people, having contributed much so that today the young people were soon the first to go to the street, with one hand ahead and another behind, because they were in the experimental period and because they had no rights at all. [[PSD protests.]] It also talks to us about young people who do not earn more than €700, but I will give you an idea: to increase wages, you must vote in favour of this increase, particularly the national minimum wage. But for that you could never count on the PSD! When the honourable Member says that the young Portuguese are the last, among those of the European Union, to leave the home of the parents, we agree and accompany him. But in the State Budget for 2021, when we proposed that the public heritage be channeled to social housing and to offer conditional and supported income, the PSD voted against and, when we presented the proposal to reinforce the money for the Porta 65 programme, abstained. [[PSD protests.]] This is the PSD posture! It is with this PSD that new generations can count! Mr President, we have come to the end of your speech without realizing whether you have done it by bad faith or by mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u239	In response to the five requests for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u240	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. PAN, CDS, Block, PS, and PCP members. I will make an answer with what I have managed to draw from the requests for clarification and which will result in an honest and humble effort for this debate. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, seemed for moments a spokesman for the Government of the Socialist Party. However, with regard to everything that the NAP had the opportunity to achieve in this State Budget, the Socialist Party did not address the main issues of Portuguese life. Everything that was accessory, folklore or even, at least, laughable, the Socialist Party thus told the PAN: "Take it there! », and the NAP made the Budget viable. But the NAP, when it needs concrete answers to the lives of the Portuguese, would turn to the PSD and ask: "Where is the PSD? Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I will return the question to you. In the next State budget, since it can negotiate so much with the Socialist Party, the NAP can replace the risible by concrete and what is needed? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u241	On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Members who have been part of the country's banks for five years, or who have made it possible for State budgets for five years, I would like to say that the «morning singing» do not certainly come from communism—responsive to the question of whether I sing good or bad—and do not, of course, come from the forces to the left of the Socialist Party. What I could have done before this intervention was to distribute to you what would be your answer. It is that your answer, whenever there was a problem in the last five years, was to say: "Be careful! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The PSD/CDS government must have been a medieval government, because you, those who are governing or those who make State budgets viable, when there is a problem, whether it is the area of Portuguese life, always say that it is the fault of the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u242	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u243	Therefore, you, the rulers and those who have been able to budget five years ago—this time, the Left Block has gone away, but, who knows, to test a future return! Is that what you're talking about? -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u244	They're coming back!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u245	... could have the ability to assume your responsibilities and not always be in the debates, which occurred in 2019 and 2020, to remember an exceptional period of Portuguese life. We know, sirs. Members, unlike your benches, the PSD bench, even when it ruled in times of crisis, has always recognized the difficulties and you never recognize them. When it is to speak of the responsibilities of the present, in what is difficult today, they throw at us, but I repeat, we always recognize the difficulties in our times of government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u246	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u247	...no longer to talk about those who, when the crisis hits, are the first to jump off the boat. But these are the companies that the Socialist Party chooses! I would also like to recall that it was with the agreement of the Left Block and the CFP that the PSD proposal in the framework of the State budget to increase the income of the younger through an amendment to the IRS Youth was plunged in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u248	A proposal that would allow younger people to apply for the Porta 65 programme was also cast, with your votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u249	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u250	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u251	Mr. Deputy, when you can, I appreciate your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u252	In order not to leave Mr. João Almeida with no answer, I will say — and with this end — that the PSD follows a path of development for our country that always combines freedom with equal opportunities and where the State does not forget that there are fragile people in our society and there are people who have a socio-economic context that needs public policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u253	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u254	What the PSD does not want is an omnipresent state that restricts people's freedom to make their life project. It is in this symbiosis of freedom and equal opportunities that the PSD will live and govern in the coming years. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u255	For a political statement by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the TAP is crucial for the country. And this is not just a debate about an airline, because talking about TAP is talking about strategy for the Portuguese economy, thousands of jobs, hundreds of national companies, it's talking about knowledge and technology, it's talking about structured public choices and an integrated strategy for transport. TAP is one of the largest domestic exporters representing around 2 % of Portuguese GDP (gross domestic product). And if you are in difficulty today because civil aviation was one of the sectors most affected by the pandemic crisis, there are errors that come from behind. One of the biggest mistakes was privatization by PSD and CDS, an ideological choice that is paid today in the accounts holes of the company. But the State also failed when it took a majority position in the capital of the company by the PS government, but kept the privates to order. When the pandemic arrived, TAP was still fighting against these past mistakes. In June this year, the Government rejected the proposal for nationalisation of TAP and for auditing private management to announce in July the decision to stay with 72, 5 % of the company, with a role in executive management. This decision came after several weeks of attempt to negotiate with a private shareholder who had never taken public interest into account, already knowing the government that a restructuring plan would be on the table. In fact, it was in this context that Mr Minister for Infrastructure stated on 16 June that, and I quote, "Departitions should not be inevitable. There are several ways we can do a restructuring of the company. What she has is to be done with the unions and there are various ways to do this. Do not keep on seeking. ” Upon arrival in October, the same Minister announced, in a hearing requested by the Left Block, that, after all, it was expected that 1600 workers would be hired in time by the end of this year. When we arrive in December, it is through social communication that we know that the reduction in the number of workers will be even greater. When it was said that the unions had to be involved in the solution, it is clear today that what was presented to the unions last Friday was a layoff plan, wage reductions and suspension of the company agreement as facts and not as a negotiation proposal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tax is not negotiation! They are not known as unions, which have been calling for meetings for five months, so that, in the end, they can be dismissed without an alternative. This imposition is a total disregard for the basic principles of any negotiation. So we were here yesterday at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, with hundreds of TAP workers, who demanded things as simple as transparency, dialogue and protection of jobs. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard from the newspapers that the restructuring plan provides for the dismissal of up to 3000 workers, cross-wage cuts of 25 %, reduction of the fleet by 23 % and reduction of the operation by up to 50 %. We know these intentions at the same time that the distribution of the vaccine against COVID-19 was announced in the coming weeks and IATA, the International Air Transport Association, revises its forecasts for recovery, assuming greater optimism. Eurocontrol also speaks of a recovery of operations by 73 % in 2021. We ask: will we not then be faced with an outdated restructuring plan, taking into account the evolution of reality? Will the government not restructure beyond what is necessary? For months we have called on the Government for a strategy for TAP to serve the country, ensure territorial cohesion, make an effective presence at the diaspora, secure jobs and not allow it to sink the wealth it brings to the country. It is now clear that this appeal continues today. What does the government want for TAP? What role will it play in the transport strategy in the country? At the moment, there is a huge void in the answer to these fundamental questions. And on the contrary, what seems to guide the choices of the Government is the giving in to the pressure of Brussels to make the TAP a miniature of what it is. Ladies and gentlemen? This may even be of interest to the other European airlines, but certainly not to the country! It is incomprehensible that the restructuring plan is not currently known. As a company that is so important and with public support the size it has, we cannot accept that these decisions are taken without due public scrutiny, without ensuring that the employment of this company and its future are being fully protected. The government has promised to include trade unions in the negotiation and has not met, as it has promised that the restructuring plan would be debated, but the date for its delivery in Brussels is fast approaching and the document is not known. We cannot accept that it is for the thousands of workers and their families, nor can we accept that it is for the weight of TAP in the Portuguese economy and in exports, which will be essential for the resumption of the Portuguese economy. We therefore demand that the Government come to Parliament and present the restructuring plan in good time for it to be voted on. We have today delivered a legislative request, and with urgency, for the Minister of Infrastructure to be heard in the Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are too many doubts in the air about the criteria underlying the choices in the restructuring plan and how it is being conducted. The country, workers and democracy deserve explanations and all information. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u257	Except for last-minute inscriptions, which should not occur, but which, by the phone call, are taking place, the Bureau records the registration, to request clarification, of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond, Mrs Isabel Pires?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u258	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u259	Thus, the first request for clarification lies with Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, has brought the debate to an important point. Unfortunately, we have said from the beginning that TAP will be the New Bank of the years ahead. And, above all, unlike the New Bank, TAP has no limit on what may cost taxpayers. Mrs. Deputy, of your speech, I did not understand what the surprise is. We have said from the outset that the TAP will cost taxpayers "worlds and funds" and it will cost, without it being represented, the maintenance of jobs, the maintenance of export capacity or anything else. So, Mrs. Member, I have two questions for you. First, what was the argument used by the government, when it nationalized or renationalized the TAP, which convinced it? Was it the inevitable importance of TAP for tourism, ignoring that most of the growth of tourism in the last decade was assured by other carriers? Was TAP important for exports, ignoring its role even more important for imports? Was the role of TAP as a guarantor of jobs, ignoring that 2600 have already disappeared and the restructuring plan foresees more thousands of job cuts? Was it the importance of TAP for national cohesion, ignoring that the first revision of routes reserved for Porto and Faro, as origin or destination, three routes, in a total of a few tens? What was the argument that convinced her? If none of these were, only one remains: your proverbial hatred of anything that is private. Second curiosity, I don't know what value the Block thought it would cost taxpayers, but we're going to admit that it's the EUR 17 billion that's already committed and that it's not the EUR 4 billion that unions say it's going to be necessary. The very simple question I have to ask is the following: if it is those 2000 or 3000 million, what are the expenses and public services that the Left Block advocates that will be cut to support the TAP or, if you do not want to cut anything, what are the taxes that will advocate that you go up to pay the TAP?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u261	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, if you would like to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u262	In view of this reality, the Portuguese have the right to know what the Left Block defends, that is, what taxes they want to increase or what public services they want to cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u263	After all, there are four and not three of you. Members who have applied for clarification, who will have a joint reply from Mrs Isabel Pires. The next request for clarification lies with Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block, with a heavy conscience and a kind of « bad-paying apology », brings us here today a relevant and worrying debate, which is the torturing process of restructuring the TAP. I refer to « excuses of bad payer » because it also has responsibilities in this bad business for Portuguese, which occurred in 2016, in the renationalisation of TAP. It was with your support! The government has founded this disastrous business on the basis of national interest, but what really happened was the imposition of the ideological cartel of management. I therefore insist that you are responsible for this situation in the TAP on the left of Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the unions accuse the government of not being heard and of lack of information. The unions also accuse the Government of data manipulation and the use of contradictory numbers, and therefore have made a careful provision to request access to all management information. The government is conducting this process in an unclear manner, without the Portuguese knowing what will happen in the future of the TAP. Trade unions are absolutely right in complaints of lack of transparency. The Assembly itself does not know the content of this plan. The Minister, already repeatedly called to Parliament, has not provided any clarification. What we got was a propaganda folklore by the Minister to weave loas to the business, saying that they are now the Portuguese to pay and so they command. They send, but they don't know what they command or why they command. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is happening behind the Portuguese and TAP workers is the preparation of a programme in which only the disastrous consequences for workers are known. Unfortunately, the plan has been presented to accounts, using the unions to give bad news to the country. This is clearly a very bad exercise to achieve a sustainable plan, but also a bad sign for democracy. in these circumstances, I leave a question to the Left Block : do you not think that, once and for all, Portuguese people, because they send, should know clearly what is going on with the taxpayers' money that will be used in the TAP? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u265	It is now time to speak to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP also for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Pires, TAP is one of the most important companies in Portugal. And if the costs inherent in the viability and development of the company are considerable, the damage to the country from possible destruction of the TAP would be incomparably higher.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u267	It's not demonstrated!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u268	However, in a particularly difficult context for the TAP, it is unacceptable that the solution is to condition the defence of the company to the Brussels dictatorships with a restructuring plan which has already left in sight intolerable consequences for the TAP Group and its workers. After the government's promises to keep TAP as a strategic company and with its size, it now comes to the public that this restructuring plan points to a further reduction in the number of workers, in the order of thousands—in addition to all those who have left in recent months for non-renewal of contracts—, wage reductions, attack on collective bargaining. Workers are looked at as the disposable parts in this crisis when, in fact, they are indispensable for the resumption of TAP. This path is unacceptable and the government must be held accountable if this destruction plan progresses. No wonder some people come to cry out « let TAP sink! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is that while TAP and its workers face these supposed inevitability of operational cuts, job destruction and rights, the interests of multinationals are taking advantage of to occupy the ground. Today, on December 3, one of these transnational, pseudo-low-cost — indeed, with presence in Portugal — and with a shameful record of violation of rights, announced the order of more aircraft for a total of 210 new planes. This is what's happening! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I ask you: do you not agree that the country cannot have just a view of the situation for the flag airline? Do you not think it is essential to plan and secure capacities beyond the constraints of the moment? It is essential that workers be involved in the restructuring plan; that there are no cuts in staff or the reduction of their rights; that they be excluded from services; that the Government, representing the State as a majority shareholder, is responsible for this process and does not allow a path of reduction of TAP, destruction or attack on workers and their rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u269	The last request for clarification lies with Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u270	Mr President, I would first of all like to thank Mrs Isabel Pires for her intervention and for bringing about such a relevant subject as is the case with TAP. I would like to say that, as part of your intervention, the Socialist Party agrees with much of the issues it has raised. There is no point in deepening the question of privatization made by the PSD/CDS — in fact, made of horse mackerel at 25. the time, for reasons that are still to be explained today — we will put it aside. We all know what happened and say that the financial soundness of the TAP was only restored after the repurchasing, following this privatisation. But we agree with the point he referred to, that of the importance to the Portuguese economy strategy, that we cannot ignore the impact and the contribution that TAP has to GDP in the context of Portuguese exports; we agree that we cannot ignore the creation of work, the issue of purchases made to national companies. It is a set of significant variables which, from our point of view, are very important, so the Socialist Party, the Socialist Party and the Government have no doubt about why we had to make this intervention in the company. I must also say — and we also agree — that civil aviation is perhaps going through one of the worst moments in its history. We all know that. And we all know that, within the European framework, all countries are making massive interventions, perhaps much more bulkier than the TAP — the Liberal Initiative Member is sure he knows that. For example, in the case of Lufthansa, the German State invests EUR 550 million per month ; in the case of France, it is EUR 400 million ; 550 million is the investment for British Airways and Iberia ; EUR 260 million for Ryanair, etc. That is to say, we are talking about very powerful interventions that are being done and we do not know if there will be a second round of interventions, taking into account the perspective for civil aviation. All this is very complex and can't be smoothed out, as I've heard from here. In fact, I must say, in parenthesis, that I have found it very gratifying that in this debate the PSD, by a certain Member, has said 'ai, ai, ai, ai, not talk about the past', but, on another subject, another PSD Member will recall the past that was made by the PS, as if that were a justification for everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u271	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u272	It's the usual paradox of the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, in conclusion, I wanted to ask you a question. Let us say that it divides us is the intervention that the PS did in the TAP and what the Left Block would like it to do, that it was a nationalization, and the honourable Member knows that a nationalization would come closer to the country. The question is as follows: in an airline which was prepared and sized to transport 17 million passengers, with the significant falls that are planned, of more than 60 % for the year, and with the recovery planned only for 2025, how do you think that nationalisation would solve this huge problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u273	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u274	Nationalization means that the company suddenly adapts to a market that does not exist, such as those I just mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u275	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u276	Mr President, I would like to thank the four Mrs. Members who have asked questions because, in fact, we are faced with an absolutely essential issue for the Portuguese economy, especially when we are talking more and more about the resumption of the Portuguese economy. And if there is something that is quite clear to everyone — well, it is not for everyone, for the Liberal Initiative this is not clear! — is that TAP is an essential factor for the resumption of the Portuguese economy, it is the largest exporter, representing 2 % of Portuguese GDP. [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo told us about the New Bank, after he was the only member of the party who was opposed to waiting for the audit of the New Bank. [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] The hypocrisy of the Liberal Initiative remains here on what part the State must play in the economy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u277	The state is good to save banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u278	To save banks, yes, sir — apparently, you must even be the only one who knows the limit of what will stop there —... [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] ...to effectively help a company that has an essential role in the Portuguese economy already thinks it does not. Therefore, from this point of view, the Liberal Initiative continues as it has always been in this debate, which is out of it and out of solutions for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u280	With regard to PSD, Mr Carlos Silva, in 2016, the position taken by the Left Block is the same as it is today that it has always taken with regard to privatization—not only this one, but also with respect to other privatizations. What should have been done at that time was indeed a nationalisation. And it cannot be squambled that the privatization made by the PSD/CDS government in 2016 still raises many doubts today. The contract that was made today is still raising questions, particularly when the Government now decided to obtain 72, 5 % of the company. Therefore, alerts regarding the privatization of TAP, on our part, have always been given and we always questioned how the company was being managed. But, Mr. Carlos Pereira, in connection with this issue of private management, it is important to recognize that, already after the decision-making in July, an attempt to renationalise — not in all — TAP, the Government maintained a type of management exactly as it was during private management. That was a mistake and, as you well know, we pointed it out several times in this House. During all these months, particularly since March / April, we have witnessed the dismissal—because, in fact, that is what is at stake—of thousands of workers in the TAP. There has been no intervention by the Government on the line coming from private management for what has happened in recent months, since July. There was no change. And we have always questioned and repeatedly demand that the Minister come to the Commission to answer that, and we remain unanswered. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Bruno Dias: it is true that we need to think of the TAP for the future, not from a contextual point of view, but from the fundamental and long-term strategy we want for the Portuguese economy, which we want for the thousands of jobs, direct and indirect, which are associated with the TAP and which are now clearly at stake. One last word: what we said, and whose request we presented to the Committee on Economic Affairs, was that the Government could not say that it would include — because it must be included! — the representative organisations of workers in this process and not to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u281	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u282	at this moment, there are thousands of workers who are facing a dismissal proposal without any alternative, and this cannot be acceptable. We therefore hope that the Minister will finally come to Parliament and give the necessary explanations to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u283	We moved on to the last political statement this afternoon, which is up to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, which is already preparing to come to the rostrum to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The budgetary debate we ended last week was another example of how this House is increasingly taken up by a collective view of society, a vision in which people count less than the state. The Socialist Government has negotiated with the other collectiveist parties the adoption of a budget for a more collectiveist country: economic policy puts the state in front of people; social policy subject people to the dependence of the collective and prevents them from choosing; and foreign policy clears Chinese oppressive collectiveism, as it embraces Hungarian authoritarian collectiveism. The disregard for human nature, with the increasing submission of the individual to a group, whether he is a class, an ethnic majority or the State, has, in this House, increasingly defenders, different ideologies and often even opposed. On the other hand, belief in the individual and freedom has suffered attacks that come a little from everywhere: the Left Block and the PCP give rise to their hatred by the privates and want to nationalize everything and, in practice, expropriate who is private; the comes to forbid people from filming certain things, at the same time they assume, with their discourse and in their proposals, ethnic discrimination; the NAP wants to get involved in what people eat; the CDS wants drones to watch people on the beaches; the PSD supports restrictions of meaningless hours, which are taking tens of thousands of people from restoration, housing and unemployment events; and the PS government wanted everyone to be forced to have a certain app on the mobile. They failed; but they got other limiting aberrations, such as banishing online classes or eating popcorn in cinemas. under the state of emergency, what we are witnessing is the emergency of the state, using fear, which the State itself encourages, to run over rights and to exercise disproportionate power over the lives of people. The Liberal Initiative is against this collective view. For us, it is up to each person to decide and choose the course he wants to give his life. When the Liberal Initiative advocates greater social mobility, the possibility of a person having real opportunities to get out of poverty and rise in life, as is the case in other European countries, these collectiveists say: "That is too ambitious. But they are not concerned that Portugal can end the year 2020 closer to the standard of living of Bulgaria than the European average. When the Liberal Initiative defends the possibility of young people starting their professional life without suffocating under a tax burden and suffocating bureaucracy, these collectiveists say: "This is very individualistic. » But they are not concerned that Portugal occupies the last places of the ranking of fiscal competitiveness. When the Liberal Initiative defends the possibility of an individual choose where he or she wants to discount for his or her reform, which hospital he or she wants to be treated and which school for his or her children, these collectiveists say: "That is very selfish. But they are not concerned that Portugal is a country where there is almost no freedom of choice in public services, and it seems that the State has to finance, lend and decide everything. But the state does not have to decide everything about the lives of people. Just look at the other European countries to realize that they don't really have one. in other countries, parents can choose the school of their children, without having to be stuck to the school of their postal code. Here, the Liberal Initiative proposed that more families could do the same with simple and development contracts. The measure was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the NAP's abstentions and even the PSD. in other countries, the response to the crisis was to lower taxes to companies and families. Here, the Liberal Initiative proposed lowering the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), lowering VAT (tax on value added) from the restoration, lowering IRC, suspending payments on account, reducing red tape for businesses, ending the IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) for the first housing and eliminating the additional to the IMI (municipal property tax) and varying rates. All these measures were rejected by service collectiveists. in other countries, people can choose whether they want to be treated in a public or private health service. Here, the Liberal Initiative proposed the extension of the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery ) and the SIGA SNS (Integrated System of Access Management), so that the Portuguese could use the private and social sectors to recover their surgeries and consultations in delay. The measure was plunged on the left. in other countries, there is a child's supply and, here, the Liberal Initiative proposed an exclusive assistant provider for the protection of children's rights. The measure was plunged by PS, with PSD, PCP, BE, and PAN abstentions. It is well noted: in the same budget in which the PS negotiators led to the approval of the Provider of the Animal, the Provider of the Child was plunged. The Liberal Initiative will always be the party to freedom, the party of people and not the collective. There are too many parties to want to be the party of the state, this great collective that, instead of serving people, uses itself, with the sole aim of increasing, always increasing, its power over people. So he deceives and lies, trying to make some believe in the lie that there are free goods and services, as if someone had not paid or would not pay when the state gives us what is not his. The Liberal Initiative believes in the individuality of each person, which contemplates the free association and helps others, which is quite different from isolationism or selfishness. We believe in the spontaneous order that people's free choices create. in this spontaneous and free order, here, then, is the role that a liberal State should have: firstly protect the freedoms and rights of people, but ensure that the most needy and vulnerable have a safety network that supports them. It is not by chance that it is the most liberal countries that have this strongest safety network. It is because in these countries enough wealth is created to make this aid effective. In the Liberal Initiative, we do not believe in collectiveisms, paternalisms or messianisms. We believe in Portuguese: in every Portuguese working, undertaking, studying, striving, caring, making his choices; in irreverent young people, in creative people, in those who are at risk; in the most vulnerable we must protect, in patients who suffer from the ideological stubbornness of the government. We believe in people involved in civic life and respect and defend the values of freedom and democracy. We believe in all Portuguese, but we never forget that each one is different. Each is different in everything, less in this: everyone deserves a Portugal that gives them equal opportunities. Everyone deserves to be able to take advantage of these opportunities in freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u285	Two Mrs were registered. Members to ask for clarification, to which the honourable Member, according to the Bureau, will answer together. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to congratulate Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, who made the rostrum a speech that almost seemed to be a concert of the Liberal Initiative in times of confinement. And let me tell you, Mr President, that you have'mixed garlic with bugs', because I have heard you do some cartoons about what, from your point of view, would be other parties and I can only tell you this: it is with great joy that I, like someone from the CDS, see other parties in the political spectrum appear to defend the same thing that we have defended, not for years but for decades. However, I would also like to tell you that I have not, nor will I teach anyone moral lessons. But in a party like mine, which has appeared and is stated under bullets and under siege, I will also certainly not receive lessons of freedom and individual freedom from anyone strictly. On this subject, the Liberal Initiative would do better to learn from the CDS than to imagine that it is now teaching us lessons after our 40 years built under siege and under bullets. And I would like to tell you, because I believe in an alternative for Portugal and an alternative for non-socialist space, that the parties of this non-socialist space and the parties on the right must look for what unites them and what they can put into practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u287	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u288	Therefore, the challenge I leave here has to do with two fundamental subjects. First of all, do we believe or do we not believe that Portugal is not doomed to be systematically in the last growing places in Europe? And do we believe or do we not believe that this is done with private initiative, with respect to work, with more flexible labour legislation and a more competitive tax system? If so, let's do this and we will certainly build proposals in this direction. Secondly, another area in which we certainly agree is in the 'green way for surgery', as proposed by the CDS. That is, do the patients have to wait for ideology or can they be treated by whom they want at the same price?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u289	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u290	I believe that in these matters we can find agreement, rather than caricature differences. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u291	Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u292	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, there in the rostrum, the honourable Member reminded me of the story of that couple traveling on the highway and in which the woman says to her husband: 'Dear, they all go in the opposite direction, they are all out of hand'. That is exactly what the honourable Member was doing. That is to say, all of us in society, in the different political spectrum, are wrong; Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo and the Liberal Initiative are right. [[Rice from PS MP Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]] Mr President, life is not like that, the sun does not revolve around the earth, it is precisely the opposite. And now, with regard to Budget, why is this the subject, the only thing I have recorded relevant on the part of the Liberal Initiative was that familiar proposal? — the rate of 15 % in IRS for all and which was then 15 % and 27 %. And he had as his goal what? We all remember: it was that those who had high incomes had a large tax bill and those who paid little paid more. I fully remember this view of the proposals for amendments to the Budget of the Liberal Initiative. from this I remember - perfectly because this was, as is the permanent hatred of the state sector, when it says « money is withdrawn, no more money is put in the state, no tax money is used in the National Health Service, nor in the public school ». And why? Because the cartridge is the private cartilage, that is, a weak state, so that it is not necessary, and so that the answer is always the one of the systems that defends, in which, when you arrive at a hospital, the first question you ask the patient is "where is your health insurance? or "Where is your credit card? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This is not the case in Portugal, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo. And that's our difference! It is the difference in a system that values the social component, that values the public school, that values the National Health Service, that values the support of companies, those companies that claim, and well, the support of the State in such a situation. This is our difference, sir! Therefore, the PS and this majority rule and the Member, in this particular case, the Liberal Initiative, has only one mandate in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u293	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u294	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr Fernando Anastácio for their questions. Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, let's start with what's easier. Portugal is certainly not condemned to be the last in all developmental rankings and surely the 'green way for surgery' is a measure that unites us. But let me also say the following: I have not come to teach anyone, I have come to draw attention to the fact that, in Portugal, and gradually, there are fewer and fewer people defending individual freedoms. The establishment of states of emergency, the limitations of individual freedoms, the limitations of rights, as if it were all justified by fear, disease or anything else, remains more and more natural. It is time for someone to say it—and it is not because they have moral superiority, it is perhaps because they are younger and come from outside and can see this naturally. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles and the Member of the PS Maria Antónia de Almeida Santos.]] Thank you very much for wanting to remind me of my age, but I was referring, as you know, to the political age and age of mandate. Mr Fernando Anastácio, regarding what he said, I am always impressed when the PS — and other forces, but the PS very often — feels the need to distort the positions of the Liberal Initiative to attack us. And it is a bit contradictory to say that we are little, we are just one — at three years of age, I don't know how many Members would have the Socialist Party..., and need to distort our positions. If we are so small, why do you need to distort our positions? First of all, the single rate of IRS is not an invention of the Liberal Initiative, there are in many countries of Europe, which, when they do not have one, have two rates, which we also proposed this year, in such a gradual logic, where this "bolo" to the rich, which Mr. And, moreover, the great objective of a single rate of IRS is not only to reduce for everyone, without exception, its tax burden, it is to simplify it, because fiscal simplification itself has a value. Secondly, the single rate of IRS has an absolutely invaluable utility in young talent retention in Portugal. These accounts are made, but in this answer I don't have time to demonstrate it. But what an employer has to pay to a qualified young person who is in the second or third year of his career in Portugal is inconceivably more than what an employer will have to pay in the countries where he chooses to emigrate. Portugal cannot afford to lose these people. And that is how the Socialist Party took the initiative, in last year's State Budget, to sign the Return Program, where there are exactly IRS discounts for young people. Is there or isn't there? And why? Because it recognizes that IRS for young people is a problem. But the biggest disruption that it does is in the National Health Service. Whenever I talk about health, someone comes to tell me that people die in the United States of America at the hospital door. But what are the health system and model of the Liberal Initiative similar to the American system? Oh, my God! In what? Oh, my God! [[PS Member Protest Fernando Anastácio.]] Not at all! Nothing! The answer is: nothing! You're experts in deturpation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u295	That's not a spontaneous order! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u296	And I've already told you once: if you don't have the internet, I'll lend you a modem. Go see, it's on the site! Now, I want to tell the Socialist Party to do this disorder less often. It's not worth it. Our idea for the health system, and not only for the National Health Service, is completely different,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u297	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u298	... it is based on free choices of people, so that they can use the various health providers, with benefit to health providers who can plan their activities and, above all, with benefit to patients and to people who, preventively, may need to use the health service. But we must have time to talk about this proposal in particular, without needing to disrupt the positions of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u299	At the end of the first item on the agenda, which included political declarations, we moved on to the second point, where we will appreciate Petition No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( FENPROF — National Federation of Teachers ) — In defense of their professional dignity, teachers demand respect for their rights, justice in the career, better working conditions, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 653 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By the appreciation of the teaching career, 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Valuation of teachers and educators and improvement of their working conditions and 716 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Allocation of rights due to teachers. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 13,903 petitioners and also the FenPROF here, for this petition, with demands that will solve the problems of teachers, but, above all, respond to the problems of public school, claiming respect for career, taking into account not only the time of service but also the right of teachers to go up to career and to access all levels, claiming a retirement scheme, respect for schedules, a system of contests that are fair and the right to negotiate. Do these proposals solve all the problems of public school? Of course not. But they help solve an essential, structural and strategic problem for the future of public school, which is the lack of teachers, the lack of hundreds of teachers, which currently affects more than 30,000 students throughout the country and which is not an occasional problem, as the government insists on saying. It is a problem that is going to be repeated in the territory, and that will be repeated more and more, and that only the Government believes it is not structural, because it is in the eyes of everyone. And it is a problem that will increasingly affect schools, because the lack of teachers stems from three fundamental questions: the aging of the teaching class, the precariousness and the degradation of the teaching career. These three problems are not circumstantial, nor occasional, problems that exist, that are deepening and that need to be solved. It is true that most hours that are empty are incomplete. But that is because the government is putting behind the teachers to solve the problems of public school. What the government tells teachers is to pay for work, because any teacher who accepts any of these schedules is to pay for work. There are a number of ways to solve these problems, including incomplete timetables. It is to transform incomplete hours into full hours, it is to change the time intervals, so that the contests no longer be a lottery and the teachers' life a Russian roulette; to ensure access to discounts and social security throughout. But the government has not taken any of these measures. The truth is that we have reached a point where the future of public school depends on attracting teachers and teachers to the system and that involves three things: linking those who are precarious, controlling the exits of those who are older and valuing the career to attract the younger ones. This is what the Left Block seeks to do, firstly, by recognizing the right to career and recognizing the entire time of service; secondly, by demanding a fair competition regime that gives access to the 4. it's 6. the steps, as teachers have the right, and that end the overruns; thirdly, including a rejuvenation program that also has a fair retirement regime that allows for the pre-reform and replacement of generations in schools; fourthly, defending respect for schedules and the differentiation between educational and non-leaving components; and fifthly, by effectively combating teacher precariousness. These are matters which the Government was obliged to negotiate with the unions, but because of the government's refusal to sit at the table with the unions, Parliament has the duty and the right — but above all the duty — to respond to the problems of public school. The Left Block presents this project, we have an opening to discuss it, we have an opening to discuss here in Parliament the answer to the problems of public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u301	On behalf of the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP starts by welcoming FenPROF, present here in the galleries, and the more than 13 000 subscribers to the petition entitled'In defence of their professional dignity, teachers demand respect for their rights, justice in careers, better working conditions'. We also welcome, and from now on, the struggle journey that is scheduled by FENPROF, against the negotiation blockade in education, which will take place on 11 December. Furthermore, one year after the delivery of this petition and the demands of years that have been submitted by teachers and educators, the minimum that the government could, and should already, have done, was precisely to open the doors of dialogue and negotiation to resolve the problems identified in this petition, problems that are not of today and that have long been felt. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that not even for what this request is to be carried out is that the Ministry of Education is worthy to respond to requests for information made by the committee. Well, that already shows something. Therefore, with regard to what is identified in this petition on aging, wear and tear, the need for rejuvenation, nothing, the government has not responded to anything. On working hours we are in the same, the reconstruction of the teaching career continues with credits to pay the teachers being, in fact, to the workers of the special careers of six years, six months and 23 days. These workers are entitled to the full length of time worked — nine years, four months and two days — and not only what has been enshrined so far: two years, nine months and eighteen days. It is also necessary to respond to the need to change the competitions, but it is not for the worse, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. This is because what the government is preparing to do next year, for example, is to change that history of internal mobility to worse, but that is not what we are talking about. So what needs to be done is a fair system of competitions. Another situation that the petition brings us is the effective fight against precariousness, which is felt, in a tremendous way, in the hired teachers who have enormous costs to respond to the need for public service and to have to go to various parts of the country with the house on their backs, years on end. This cannot be the way, they must enter the career and see their rights respected. All of this, however, has to move forward by ending this negotiating blockade of the Ministry of Education with trade unions, particularly with FenPROF. And it is precisely for there to be the fair and due appreciation of teachers and educators and the improvement of their working conditions that we present the legislative initiative of the CFP, which accompanies this petition of the FENPROF. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is very simple, what we propose, and what we present in this legislative initiative, is the accounting of the time of service provided entirely by teachers and educators for the purposes of career progression and for the recovery of remuneration, not forgetting the forced trade union negotiation that has to take place. With regard to the retirement scheme, we propose that an adequate and fair general retirement scheme be defined for all public administration workers, considering specific schemes, including for teachers and educators who have specific characteristics and requirements. With regard to work precariousness, there must be the approval of a fair tendering scheme, eliminating the limitations to the binding of the so-called'standard-work', allowing all teachers to be linked with three or more years of service, which perform permanent functions in schools. There must be the opening of vacancies to the national competition by a graduated list according to the needs expressed by schools for full hours for three consecutive years, which ensures that the criterion of ordination by professional graduation is not violated. There is a need for the annuality of the examinations of teaching staff, for the opening of competitive procedures for linkage in careers, for the reduction of the geographical scope of the teaching area frameworks and for the opening of competitions for the linkage of the specialized technicians of the schools that perform teaching functions. It is essential that the working rights of teachers and educators be respected in relation to working hours. These are the proposals presented by the CFP here and we believe that there are conditions to be approved so that, in fact, there is an appreciation of what is the work of teachers and educators in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u303	On behalf of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Greens, I would like to welcome FenPROF, the promoter of the petition 'In defence of its professional dignity, teachers demand respect for their rights, justice in the career, better working conditions', and also the 13 903 subscribers. Teachers have been very disrespected by successive governments, even by those who in the speech claim that education is a structural pillar of the development process. Despite this theoretical recognition, in practice they do not attribute their most elementary rights to teachers, determining to the dignity of their work and their career. It is appropriate to say: much conversation does not combine with the little action! The Greens reaffirm that the appreciation of the teaching career is a determining factor for a good education policy. To devalue teachers, as so many governments have done, corresponds to an objective and truthful attack on education in our country and public school. We are all well reminded of the policy of the PSD government / CDS: dismissal of teachers, precariousness as a factor characterizing the profession, increasing the number of students per class, making working conditions difficult, wage cuts, deregulation of working hours, among so many other issues. In the previous legislation it was also possible, with the contribution, insistence and concrete proposals of the ENP, to approve the decrease in the number of students per class, the hiring of more teachers who were in precarious condition or the defreezing of careers. However, the result achieved was below what was possible and necessary. The PS Government has put economic options in front of teachers' rights. Meanwhile, many teachers despair, flooded with injustices, with levels of wear and stress as they are not in other professions. Only with great sacrifice and great dedication of teachers is that our teaching system is going to stand. The dedication and commitment of the teachers was clear at the end of the previous school year in which the teachers did not abandon their students and, even without much practice on the platforms and in distance teaching, sought to accompany the students and allow them to finish the school year. What has happened, with the PS government, with regard to the counting of service time for career progression purposes, is a good example of disrespect for teachers. Six years, six months and 23 days fell into a broken bag, were erased from the professional life of teachers as if they had not existed, leaving thousands of teachers damaged in their career. It's not admissible! The teaching body lives faced with many difficulties, such as aging and non-renewal of frames, high levels of precariousness, injustices in placement contests, abuses of working hours, in many cases pay to work, to gain time of service. in this sense, we propose solutions that translate into an elementary justice for teachers, in the dignity of teaching career and in the recognition of the necessity of valuing public school. The Greens bring to the House an initiative which provides for the possibility of the recovery of six years, six months and 23 days completed as a time of service, but not counted for the purposes of progress in teachers' career; the negotiation with a view to the creation of a pension scheme for teachers with the only requirement of 36 years of service and discounts, with possible transitional arrangements; the binding of all teachers with three or more years of service; the guarantee of 35 hours of work for teachers and a system of national competitions ordering candidates for their professional graduation. Only an incomprehensible fear will lead to these proposals being rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u305	The next intervention was Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the petition by FenPROF which brought together almost 14 000 signatures and which defends a set of rights and working conditions already listed here. Through the petitioners, here present, we greet all the teachers who, in this pandemic year, have sought to ensure that the school does not close and that students continue to learn in the complex circumstances in which we find ourselves. On the subject, the CDS has been saying two things for a long time: the first is that the subject of careers is of competence...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u307	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I'm sorry, but there's a breakdown in time count and so...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u308	For more or less?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u309	Mrs. Member, so far you've probably spoken more than two seconds, you give me no idea why...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u310	I didn't feel, I felt it was...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u311	One moment, I know, but I ask the services that contain time and now, yes, you can start.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u312	I will not abuse you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u313	I know you don't, Mrs. Member, thank you very much, but I won't leave either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u314	I then said that careers are within the competence of the government and that in particular the protection of the Ministry of Education has been avoided, ignoring the problems that are in fact going on every year. Secondly, we have also said that these problems are facing which are linked to the problem of the ageing of the teaching class, the poor attractiveness and renewal and the difficulties in substitutions, particularly in some recruitment groups and in some geography, must be addressed through a difficult one — we recognize — but imperative, revision of the recruitment, placement and progression of teachers, which, if not done, will have, as it has already done, consequences on the proper functioning of the school, to the detriment of students, the increase in the burnout of teachers and the inevitable unsustainability of their own career. Having said that, it should be recalled that in 2020 the Government committed itself, and I quote, « with a diagnosis of the model of recruitment and placement of teachers, as well as of the needs of teachers in the medium term, promoting rejuvenation ». You never heard anything about this intention again. It is also worth recalling that in December 2019 Ms Alexandra Leitão argued that pre-reform makes a lot of sense in her teaching career. In an interview with the ECO explained that, of the various groups of the Public Administration that guardians, this was perhaps the group in which an early retirement would make more sense. The truth is, we have never seen any concrete and feasible proposals for this purpose, and the CDS has also defended a programme of this nature in its electoral programme. It is therefore up to the Government to move forward with this dossier, knowing that, if it does not move forward now, what will happen is that in the future it will have less freedom to make the right choices and, at that time, all the complaints, whether from the students themselves to the teachers, will be of no benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u315	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I'm sorry again for the trouble. Now you have the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome this initiative, all petitioners and FenPROF as the first petitioner. In fact, several debates have been brought to this House through petition, and several situations of inequality to which we urgently need to respond, fulfilling the political responsibilities that we assumed during our election. The NAP has repeatedly brought forward proposals on situations of injustice in several professional areas. With regard to the flagrant situation of teachers in Portugal, we understand that it is something that should concern us all and that, from then on, begins by the absence of dialogue by the Ministry of Education with the representative bodies of the teachers. This has been a manifestly distant and even misleading stance on the concerns of this class and shows disrespect for these professionals, who, together with families, are the ones who guarantee the development of our children and our young people. Therefore, for the NAP, the first note we would like to leave in this debate is that, in terms of education, teachers should be heard by the guardianship, the representative elements of the sector, building what seems not to exist until today, i.e. a relationship of dialogue and availability for negotiation, by the Ministry of Education. If it is true that all problems cannot be solved at once, neither can the Ministry continue to protect its resolution, pushing problems with the belly or, worse still, acting as if it were a 2-year-old child considering that what he does not see does not exist. A clear sign of political will would be the development of a strategic and concerted plan of action, based on time, so that, in a phased way, it could respond to the problems that have been dragged down and which have worsened over time. Therefore, from the outset, the Government must assume that it will solve the problems associated with the hiring and binding of teachers who meet the permanent needs of schools and who have three or more years of service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, many of our teachers have a life they would call a "walker", an unstable life that also has a negative impact on educational projects. In fact, there is a need for a fairer system of competitions, which respects career progression and corrects injustices resulting from peer-overcomings. in a career of 8 steps that went to 10, the prospect of career top became almost impossible. The repositionings, freezings and artificially created barriers divided and put the teachers who wanted entry into the 5th. a is 7. The steps. in this scenario, we will lose teachers, experience and acquired knowledge, we will lose educational quality, we will mortgage the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u317	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next intervention is for the Socialist Party, so Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating the petitioners and FenPROF, here present. It's been a year, indeed, difficult for the Portuguese. They are forced to reinvent the days, with loss of social relations, unfortunately, for many, with labor losses, loss of lives and loss of affections, with each of us wishing to ardently not to experience a crisis like this in their generation or in the following. At these times, we need to know who we count, what doors that are not closed, when we need them most open. And today, as at the beginning of the pandemic, teachers are committed to saying « Present! », in keeping the door open, wanting to be part of the solution rather than the problem. They reinvented themselves in the approaches, many of them gained new skills that they put at the disposal of the students to do what they know best to do: to teach! So again, we greet the teachers who were not on the government's side, but on the country's side and in defense of future generations. We talked about them again this afternoon. Three draft resolutions and a petition are under discussion, on a theme that highlights a key idea: the appreciation of teachers and the teaching career. A portion of this debate, which is not new, has already been the subject of acquitted meetings in the previous Parliament. Members in this Chamber will remember the photographic opportunity and political opportunism that the PSD has given up, defending what had seemed exotic to him so far. The same party that had neglected public school and teachers in times of PàF government (Portugal to Front), defended at that time to recover all the lost professional time in the previous legislature without ever showing the accounts of the costs, without saying which taxes increased or the expense it cut. The lightness of that night had retreated the next day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u320	Very recently, in other matters, we have again found that the PSD has failed to take account of or measure the political consequences of its actions. But let us go back to the proposals under discussion, brought by the hands of FenPROF and the left of Parliament. And the question is: what we started in the previous term, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u321	Good question! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u322	Was it not a process of valuing the career of the teacher, of his professional dignity? Oh, my God! The left has been with us on this journey, the left cannot cast off this path of appreciation of the public school. It was a substantial burden book that I would remind you again: the revocation of a set of diplomas that conditioned the exercise of the function, such as the end of the school contract; the extinction of the evidence of assessment of knowledge and skills; the repeal of the standards on the requalification and mobility of pre-school and elementary and secondary education teaching staff; the opening of vacancies on the map of teaching staff, reducing the norm-work from five successive contracts and four renewals to four successive contracts and three renewals and, in 2018, for three years of contract and two renewals in all recruitment groups. The latter was an essential step towards 'disbursing' the teaching function and in this school year allowed the entrance to the competition of 872 teachers for the career in a pedagogical area. We have again insisted on continuing training, a right and a duty of teachers, which allows the updating of professional skills, mobility and career progression. We mitigated the effects of freezing between 2011 and 2017, which enabled the progression in the career of thousands of teachers and the repositioning of so many others. We have regulated access to the vacancies of the 5. a is 7. the steps, which allowed the years 2018 and 2019 to progress more than 4000 teachers. We created the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group, considered constitutionally 20 years ago. We distinguished the profession, when we secured the placement list of 28 500 teachers one month before the start of the school year, ensuring stability and forecast, or when we strengthened the public school with more than 3300 teachers with a full time, to strengthen the credit schedule...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u323	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u324	Mr. President, don't I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u325	I'm so sorry, Mrs. Member, it was my pardon. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u326	In short, over the past five years, we have brought about 9,000 teachers into the frameworks of the Ministry of Education. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, isn't this defending the public school? Oh, my God! Isn't this strengthening her? Oh, my God! With regard to compliance with the 35 hours a week, it must be said that the rules applicable to the organisation of the school year have been negotiated with trade union organisations, always in accordance with the Statute of the Teaching Career. With regard to the recovery of service time, Mr. Members, not being this a commitment from the Government or the PS, was the subject of negotiation and solution, in respect of equity and sustainability with the other careers of the Public Administration and for compatibility with available resources. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we know there are new and old challenges ahead. The Government is currently examining the need to replace teachers through retirement so that difficulties can be identified, by recruitment groups and by region, in the medium and long term. The government is aware of the need to map the difficulties...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u327	You have to!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u328	... concerning the initial training of teachers, so that it is possible to find ways to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession. These are challenges that require structural solutions and we do not have miraculous or instantaneous solutions, we do have work. We are proud of what we have done and what we are doing. We will continue to intransigent in the dignity of teachers' career, continuing to create conditions for the stability of teaching function and pedagogical projects, consolidating the achievements achieved, always respecting the equity between workers and between careers and the sustainability in the time of the measures we take.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u329	Mrs. Deputy, yes, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u330	The Portuguese wouldn't understand if it weren't. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u331	Mrs. Deputy, once again, I apologize to you for my lateness. You can certainly take revenge on another occasion, but I apologize for that. You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mrs Carla Madureira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the PSD is always that, we do not change our opinion or position. Conjugate the replacement of a right that seems absolutely basic and fair to us with the importance of maintaining the budgetary balance was unachievable objective in 2019, because the Socialist Party so wanted to. In the territory of the continent it was not possible to find a solution, unlike what happened in the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores. We recall the conditions that we find fundamental for the consideration of the accounting of the remaining time in the full recovery of the unaccounted time for career progression, or others, which must be established by the government in a negotiating process, from the outset, the availability of resources and the future sustainability of the public education system. This issue was discussed in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and now, in 2020, almost at the doors of 2021, when we are on our way to a historic recession. However, none of these draft resolutions consider the current budgetary context or the negative evolution of GDP or public debt, which have become very degraded and dig deep inequalities in the protection that the State can provide to its citizens. It says the popular saying that « if you want to make an easy problem difficult, then postpone it». And that is precisely what the government has done over the last five years. These initiatives are just trying to reprisal a missed opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opportunity that existed in 2018 and 2019 to solve this issue is not the same as it is now. To speak truth to citizens requires that we be clear: the opportunity to restore the remaining service time is not compatible, in accordance with the initiatives we are discussing today, with the economic and financial situation that is expected for 2021 and 2022. [[Laughter from PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] And it's your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u333	You're the one who gave me a walk! It must be on the day of « São Never»! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u334	The responsibility lies with the Government and with the CFP, which did not achieve, in the negotiations for the approval of the State budget for 2021,... [[PCP protests.]] ... to ensure that the PS accepts the resolution of the impasse concerning the accounting of the remaining service time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u335	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u336	The PSD could not remain, nor remained, indifferent to the teachers' appeal. In fact, we leave here today our recognition for the role that teachers have played at this difficult time for the country to go through. They have been great professionals, with a great sense of responsibility. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u337	We recall that in 2019 the PSD equated a period of not less than six years and that was, and is still, our commitment, borne by the Portuguese in the last legislative elections. We reaffirm our position on this matter: financial availability, so as not to affect the sustainability of public accounts; the principle of equal treatment of the different special careers of the Public Administration. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] Education, both through the training of citizens and through the potential for competitiveness, is central to development and the future of Portugal. Education cannot be resonated with calculations or political-party scenes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u338	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP still has some time to make a final speech, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on this issue, we would like to tell the Socialist Party that the negotiation of working time, if you are the Members. Members well remember, it was marked precisely by the intransigence of the government, because the government, whenever it arrived at the negotiating meetings, said : « that is this, that is this and not one day more». This was what marked the negotiations at the time and revealed an extreme intransigence of the government. To say, in this circumstance, that the PS will remain intransigent is not a very happy expression, Mrs Deputy, when the negotiating doors have been precisely closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u340	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u341	I very much conclude, Mr President, by saying to the PSD only the following: you know, Mrs Deputies, we remember what a missed opportunity was. It was the one which the PSD did not, in Parliament's assessment, use to resolve with the PCP proposal this problem of service time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u342	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u343	... and lost it again when, in this State budget, the CFP presented a proposal for the full recovery of service time, which the PSD did not follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u344	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u345	We could be here talking about another situation, if the PSD had followed us properly in these and other circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u346	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u347	The question, Mrs Carla Madureira, when she talks about sustainability, and I really conclude, Mr President, is to give priority to people and not to the deficit. That is what we consider to be the way forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u348	Mrs Joana Mortágua also has some time left for one last intervention, so she has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, those who listen to the Socialist Party will say that there is nothing to do in response to the problems of public school, so much so that it has already been done. The truth is that of the most important problems we are facing right now, of those who challenge public school, of those who question the future of public school, there is nothing that is not predictable and must not be resolved. The question of the retirement of teachers was a predictable problem. How long has the government known that 58% of teachers are going to retire in a decade and that there is no plan to replace them? How long ago? How long have you known that there are no new teachers entering the system? How long has it been known that younger teachers—and, for the younger ones, I say up to 45 years—are precarious and poorly paid and that the idea that teacher career is attractive for students entering college is no longer there? How long have you known? How long has the Socialist Party and the Government promised to solve these problems? How many years have they studied the problems and what structural solutions have they presented so far? None! On the contrary, an initial impulse to the change of the brake standard proposed by the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u350	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u351	I conclude now, Mr President. From this initial impulse, the extraordinary linkage of teachers, on a proposal from the Left Block, there is nothing left. The only thing you do is drag the problems, push them with the belly, while the schools are getting more and more without teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Member. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u353	And there is one thing that is certain: without dignitying the career of teachers, the problem of lack of teachers in public school will not be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u354	We therefore conclude the debate on this item on our agenda. We now move on to the third point, which consists in the assessment of Petition No 81 / XIV / 1. a ( Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascist Resistants ) — Of repudiation and demand that the announced creation of the Salazar Museum be stopped and abandoned, with that or other name, in Santa Comba Dão. Mr António Filipe is a member of the CFP Parliamentary Group for the first time. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists Resistants submitted this petition, signed by more than 11 000 citizens, to abandon the announced creation of the Salazar Museum, with that or other name, in respect of the values entered in the Constitution of the Republic and of the thousands of citizens who were victims of the Fascist regime of the New State. The museum memory of the dictatorship, which oppressed the Portuguese people for almost half a century, which explains to the young generations what fascism was and which does the pedagogy of the values of freedom and democracy is not done with the creation of places of congregation of Saudiists of the past. The house where the dictator lived would never be a study place and an interpretive center of the New State, it would no longer be a place of romance of Saudiists, invoking the alleged virtues of Salazar and its regime, bleaching a whole range of repression, delay and misery that salazarism represented for Portugal. The museum memory that democracy owes to dictatorship is the memory of who resisted it, is the National Museum Resistance and Freedom, in Forte de Peniche, is the Museum of Aljube Resistance and Freedom, in Lisbon, is the museumalization of the old chain of PIDE (International Police and State Defense) in Porto, on the street of Heroism. Salazar's husband, worthy of study, is in the National Archive of the Tower of Tombo at the disposal of researchers. Among the first subscribers of this petition are citizens and democratic citizens of different sensibilities, professions and regions: doctors, lawyers, lawyers, workers, writers, employees, academics, authors, members of tourism entities, former political prisoners, journalists, musicians, trade unionists, teachers, students, artists and military of April. This petition is not against Santa Comba Don and his people, on the contrary. Santa Comba Don is much more than the land where, accidentally, a dictator was born. It is worth much more than that and has conditions of appreciation and development that provide undesirable visitors. Santa Comba is an estimated and priceless city, Salazar's apology is not. Law No. 64 / 78 of 6 October prohibits organizations that profile fascist ideology, defines them as organizations that show that they wish to disseminate or effectively disseminate the values, principles, exponents, institutions and methods characteristic of fascist regimes, namely corporateism or the exaltation of the personalities most representative of those regimes. at a time when political forces of extreme right, apologists of hatred, racism and xenophobia and whitening of fascism emerge, in several countries of the world, as a real threat to freedom and democracy, it becomes more important that in Portugal, a country that was oppressed by half a century of fascist dictatorship, democratic forces do not fail to call and say 'no' to initiatives such as the creation of an allusive museum in Salazar. It would be a challenge to all those who, by fighting for freedom, have suffered imprisonment, torture or murder in the hands of a dictatorship that led the country to poverty, which only the April Revolution has released. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u356	The next intervention is the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascists and 10 000 petitioners. The petition explains the reasons behind it: the pretext of increasing the attractiveness of the interior, the City Hall of Santa Comba Dão resumes the idea of the construction of an interpretative centre, designated by « New State». This intention will give rise to a museum to the dictator, becoming a place of evocation of his memory and of what is considered his legacy. Now, there is a legacy of 48 years of dictatorship, which was based on the New State, an expression used for the first time in the Constitution of 1933 and which defines the political regime in force in Portugal until 25 April 1974 — a single party, few Members, occasional elections, simulated, fraudulent, and always benefited the candidate of the regime. During the longest dictatorship, Portugal had the highest infant mortality rate in Europe and the highest in the world. There were no doctors, power grid, channeled water or sanitation in general of the country. The policy of the construction of large public works was aimed, above all, at favouring the economic oligarchy, the owner of the whole industry. Industrial conditioning limited the initiative and only with permission was a small industry or business created. Most people worked in agriculture, with low wages, which kept them in poverty. So they emigrated clandestinely, jumping. Others jumped to escape the war in Africa, which sacrificed a whole generation of young people to keep the colonies and refuse independence to the peoples for too long under colonial yoke. Almost all people were illiterate and subjected to patriarchal and non- secular power structures. In primary school, the manuals, immutable, had messages of indoctrination and heightening of the dictator. To pursue studies, it was necessary to live near a city. There were high schools for those who went to college and technical schools for workers' children. The school was supposedly reproducing social inequalities, and, using such an expression to the right, the social elevator did not even exist. However, many were those and those who resisted, who fought underground, who were exiled, who were censored, deported, tortured, killed or killed, lives of resistance and struggle, who are important to honor and perpetuate in memory and to think about future generations. Directly or indirectly, excluding elites supporting the regime, all Portuguese and Portuguese have vivid memories of difficulties, lack of freedom and oppression. Some of them are sitting here. It is these Portuguese and Portuguese that we must pay tribute, perpetuating in collective memory their struggle for freedom. For this reason, as the petitioners say, Aljube prison, Peniche Fortress or PIDE headquarters in Porto, places of torture and death of the resistant antifascists, must be the interpretative centers of what was the salazarist dictatorship. The Tarrafal concentration camp should be part of this set. in it they suffered and died Portuguese and many of those who fought for independence. The Assembly and the Permanent Commission have already condemned the establishment of this interpretative centre. To defend it is to betray the memory of thousands of victims and of the millions of Portuguese and Portuguese who lived under the yoke of the most violent, tragic and long dictatorships of contemporary life, as well as an aggravation to the Portuguese and Portuguese of today and, above all, to the generations to come. Therefore, the Left Block condemns and will always condemn any attempt to tell history in these terms and bring the victims of the salazarist dictatorship and the Portuguese in general. We hope you're not alone in this decision. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u358	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party. Mrs Rosário Gambôa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I greet all the petitioners here, welcoming in them the testimony of the memory of the thousands of victims of the New State regime, a memory that cannot be forgotten or forgotten. The preservation of history's study is a cultural and political duty, because it is around the memory, its foundation of values, which rebuilds and updates the collective identity of a people, a community. in this context, it is relevant that we and our greeting to the various research centres that have been systematically and rigorously studying the New State, greeting their historians and social scientists, who preserve and bring to light the truth hidden in secret fact files, contributing, with their work, to put an end to the dormancy of ignorance, which feeds the idea of a dictatorship as a well-intended authoritarianism, the "mild Portuguese" of the "soft customs", thus complicit in atrocities and crimes. I also want to welcome the museum equipment, such as the Aljube Museum, the Chain of the PIDE in the Port or the Tarrafal in Cape Verde, built in the place of suffering of the victims and greet the teachers and all those who teach to learn democracy by studying and understanding errors, reflecting on the responsibility that we all have so that amnesia does not settle and the values of democratic ethics are consolidated. The story, Mr. Members, it is built by the study of facts and their deoccultation and critical analysis. And the facts are not neutral. And less neutral are the values that inspire a conception of life and community: freedom and democracy. The petition that is being discussed today in this plenary is founded here, and is realized in criticisms and suspicions about the claim to be created in Vimieiro, Santa Comba Dan, a « New State Interpretation Centre », based in the old Salazar Cantina School. According to the Municipal Chamber of Santa Comba Dão and ADICES - Local Development Association, which promotes the project in partnership with the CIM (intermunicipal community ), the aim of the project is to implement in the territory a network of interpretative centres linked to the history and political memory of the Republic and the New State, which aims — I quote — « to create a set of spaces for historical dissemination », convening « a set of resources of enormous value in the memory of Portugal and Europe », which « constitute determining factors of competitiveness » and local development, adding « the tourism potential of the territory ». The proponents convincingly declare the importance of this project and that it does not aim to exalt the figure of the dictator, but only to disseminate History in a formative and pedagogical perspective. For all this, arrived here, we can only admit that the claim, in itself, is understandable and the objectives too, but perhaps the chosen path is not the most appropriate. We still know little about the real implementation of that network on the ground and its programme and content. However, for now, the irradiating or founding core of this network is the interpretation center of the New State, to be realized in buildings linked to the memory of Antonio de Oliveira Salazar. Regardless of the merits of this specific project, it does not seem prudent to advance with an interpretative centre based on this site and in this equipment. And more unwise is the initiative when, at both European and national level, we are witnessing the flourishing of nationalist movements and ideologies of totalitarian charities, whose tendency to make the place a center of Saudi pilgrimage has already emerged in the recent past. In September 2019 he affirmed one of the project consultants, João Paulo Avelã Nunes : « We know that, in the face of dictators of dictatorships that have occurred for a few decades, there are no houses-museums, unless one wants to whiten out». Now, does the project note this fact evidenced by one of its protagonists? Without wishing, we may be incubating a snake egg, in a network that can and should be virtuous, if generated outside this narrow and dangerous connotation. It will be worth rethinking these questions in the light of the lessons that history itself has shown us, avoiding dubious revisionisms that degenerate in hygiene, in naturalization of evil, in cradles of "alternative truths", legitimized in exalted irrational emotions. It can and will be desirable, yes, the construction of a network of interpretive centres of the Republic and of the New State, a network of knowledge and testimony of our history, which redeems the memory of the permanent struggle for the values of democracy and freedom, demonstrating the reason for being and the value of this struggle, so that we are responsible for the continuity and meaning that we give it in the present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u360	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome, democratically, the close to 10,400 petitioners who, in total freedom, took the civic initiative to present this petition. And freedom is a key word in this discussion. As you will recall and have already been mentioned here, this subject is not new in Parliament, it has already come here several times. And I believe it is relevant to stress, once again, that there is no intention in this project to create an evocative or laudatory museum of fascism or to exalt the figure of Salazar. What is intended is to create, in Santa Comba Dão, a centre of interpretation of the New State, a centre of studies and research that will address this significant part of the history of Portugal of the 20th century. In times like the present, in which there are countless temptations and attempts to rewrite History, there is a duty to study and investigate to understand the past in its context and allow the future to be free of all cycles that minimize us, whether they are and what extremist ideology they come from. In the understanding of the CDS, wanting to delete History is a deeply antidemocratic act, of which we can only disagree. In respect for the Constitution, there must be freedom, this very important expression in democracy, for all these projects. And by definition, freedom cannot be controlled or selective. Therefore, we disagree with the position taken here by the PCP, or, in Commission, by the Left Block, which said that the history of the dictatorship of the 20th century is only made in other installations, such as the Peniche Fort, in the chain of the PIDE, in the port or Aljube. Finally, this is not the matter of the competence of the Assembly of the Republic and even the Minister of Culture, when consulted by Parliament on this petition, referred the matter to the authorities involved. The local promotional association, ADICES, heard in committee, explained that its objective is — and I quote — to have "a set of spaces of historical dissemination without ideological vocation" and to this end established a protocol with the Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies of the 20th century of the University of Coimbra. In addition to this interpretation center of the New State, the network that you want to develop also integrates the Centre of Interpretation of the Sanatorium of Caramulo, in Tondela, the Casa-Museu Antonio José de Almeida, in Penacova, and the Casa-Museu Afonso Costa, in Seia. According to ADICES — and I quote — "this network aims to promote and deepen democracy and integrated development in a vast central region, as well as to make known the participation of these territories in the political history of the 20th century Portuguese". With all due respect, I conclude by repeating what was stated by the CDS in 2008 on this subject: we may be more concerned about the living demonstrations of all tyranny than the historical investigation and preservation of a building that will close few objects equal to so many others about a time when we all feel well past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u362	It is now time to speak to Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, PSD. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u363	I begin by congratulating Mr President and the ladies and gentlemen. Members, also complimenting the more than 10,000 petitioners of this petition, who brought us this subject. We will try not to reduce this to « those who support it are anti-fascist, those who do not support it is fascist », because the subject cannot be reduced to such simple things. Mrs. Members, in order to assess the relevance or basis of the concerns contained in this petition, we have to ask a number of questions, and the first would perhaps be, if the term « New State », as well as all dictatorships or totalitarian States, should be forgotten or remembered. Should they be hidden or should they be exposed in their immense inhumanity and offensive to the dignity of people and peoples? Is it whitening or displaying to remember not to forget or repeat? I think our parents deserve to know each other and our children need to know. It is not hidden what was the Nazi holocaust, Auschwitz hell, Frankish dictatorship, Mussolini fascism or the Soviet totalitarianism of Stalin. Another question: to whom can or should the construction, the model and the contents of a centre of these? Who offers us values, credibility, historical and technical rigor to show the truth of what was the New State—and the truth is ugly? According to the information that is public, this project brings together a set of entities above any suspicion or prejudice, such as five authorities—that is, the democratic local power—and the consultant of the Interdisciplinary Studies Center of the 20th century of the University of Coimbra. Do some of these entities offend, provoke, frighten or transport the worst purposes in themselves? I don't think so. What about the name? The name "Museum Salazar" is invoked by the subscribers of the petition today under discussion, and the names are, in fact, important. There are names, designations or titles that kill the noblest intentions and transmit the wrong message. What about « Salazar museum » or, worse, « Salazar house-museum » if it were in his house? The vulgarization of the concept around the physical person who most popularized would run the risk of causing the Roma-Homenage effect that, I believe, more if you want to avoid. But everything indicates that we are facing a set of interpretative centers that, together with the interpretation and display of what was the Republic and the New State, frame projects, for example, and here with total ownership, related to the figure of Aristides de Sousa Mendes. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, being anti-fascist and opposing the New State before 25 April was to resist, denounce, endure imprisonment, exile, torture and even death. To be anti-fascist after 25 April, to be anti-fascist in 2020 is not to allow the New State to forget, to bleach or, to use an expression of fashion, to make a dictator a cute dictator! We believe in the nobility of the purposes of its promoters, we believe in the credibility of the multiple entities that support and fit the project. We have a concern, a concern that has not yet been answered, because the project lacks full implementation: which audiences can and should attract this center? The academics, the schools, the new generations and all those who lived under the New State, or those who intend to celebrate, making the place destination of romage and homage? We believe that the greatest challenge will certainly be to define the model that makes the right choices for the right purposes that guide this project. Finally, with a fair word of honor to all those who fought against the New State and who allowed me to be here today to say what I said, in freedom and without censorship or punishment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u364	The last intervention for which Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens, was the registration of the Bureau. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, who have made use of this important instrument of our democracy, which is the petition, and which, through it, bring us to their indignation and repudiation about the announced creation of the Salazar museum, with this or other name, in Santa Comba Dan. And I would particularly like to welcome the petitioners with us who are accompanying the work, and who, despite the hour, show, indeed, a great deal of resistance, a greeting which, of course, we also want to extend to the URAP, the Union of Portuguese Anti-Fascist Resistants, not only by dynamizing and promoting this petition, but also by all the work that, over time, has been developing in defence of the values of our democracy. And, as a first note, the Greens want to make it clear that, like the petitioners, we also consider that the intention to create the so-called New State Interpretation Centre is no longer to seek to rehabilitate the left-hand figure of the dictator Salazar and fascism, the regime that oppressed the Portuguese for almost half a century. This is an intention that, in our view, should concern all democrats and, more importantly, an offense to the Portuguese people who courageously fought against this regime in defense of freedom, democracy, peace and social justice and a more felt offensive to the memory of the thousands of victims of the Fascist regime. But this is still an intention that not only has anything to do with the values that guide our constitutional framework, on the contrary, but also, in particular, goes into conflict with Article 46 ( 4 ). the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which, it is recalled, prohibits all organizations that share fascist ideology, but also with Law No 64 / 78, which in Article 3 (1). the, expressly states that it is considered to share fascist ideology with organizations that show adopting, defending, seeking to disseminate or disseminate the values, principles, institutions and methods characteristic of fascist regimes that history record, namely corporateism or the exaltation of the personalities most representative of those regimes. The Greens therefore fully share the concerns and feelings of repudiation and indignation more than justified that is brought to us by the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u366	We have thus concluded this item on our agenda and the agenda for this sitting. I request Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Diogo Leon, to inform the House of some information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). Mr President, I am now informing you of the presences of the ladies and gentlemen. Members who attended today's plenary meeting by video conference: PS Deputies Luís Moreira Testa, Marcos Perestrello, Marta Freitas, Miguel Matos and Sofia Araújo and PSD Member Sergio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-03.u368	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you of the agenda for tomorrow's sitting. The plenary meets at 10 a.m. with the first item on the agenda called for by the PSD Parliamentary Group, subject to the theme « The pandemic and its implications for housing policies », under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure. The second point is the joint discussion of the Bill No 63 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Exceptional suspension of deadlines associated with the survival and expiry of collective labour convention and the Bills Nos 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle, eliminates the expiry of collective bargaining and regulates the succession of collective labour agreements ( sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), 74 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes collective bargaining, making the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, and 130 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates the replacement of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker and the elimination of the expiry of the collective contract ( tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ). The third item of the agenda is from the joint assessment of draft resolution No 729 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the more effective and efficient use of EU funds, in particular within the framework of Cohesion Policy, the Strategic Plan for Common Agricultural Policy and the European Union Recovery Plan, the general discussion of draft Law No 589 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Establishment and maintenance of the Transparency Portal by an independent entity and Resolution Projects Nos 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government submit quarterly reports to the Assembly of the Republic on the negotiation and implementation of the European funds allocated to Portugal under the Next Generation Programme and the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and its implementation of the economic recovery plan Portugal 2020 - 2030 and 748 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government establish a public platform by demonstrating, transparently, accessible and territorially, the allocation of European funds allocated to Portugal through the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 and the EU Next Generation Recovery Fund. Then there will be an interruption and at 3 p.m. the Plenary will be resumed, with a review of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency, from 9 to 23 November 2020. Fifthly, the request for a renewal of the state of emergency will be discussed. Following consideration of these points there will be a preparatory debate of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union building process. The following point is from the timeless assessment of the Parliament's report and management account for the year 2019. They are also on the agenda, without time, motions for resolution Nos 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement on the Participation of Croatia in the European Economic Area, signed in Brussels on 11 April 2014, 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unified Patent Court, held in Brussels on 29 June 2016, 9 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Air Transport Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru, signed in Lisbon on 26 February 2019, 12 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Framework Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the United Nations on United Nations Meetings to be held in the Portuguese Republic, signed in New York on 11 May 2020, 14 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Convention on the Suppression of Illicit Acts relating to International Civil Aviation, adopted in Beijing on 10 September 2010, and 15 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Paraguay on the Transfer of Condemned Persons, signed in Lisbon on 11 May 2017. Finally, the last item is the vote on the Rules of Procedure. It will therefore be a working day with morning and afternoon sessions. I call on all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, take this to heart. I thank everyone for their cooperation in this session and wish to continue in the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 17 minutes.]]
