ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, we will continue the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. First of all, we shall discuss and vote on the rules of the plenary and we shall begin with the proposal 390 - C, of BE, to add Article 110. o -A — Amendment to the legal regime for the protection of unemployment. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u2	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u3	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u4	Mr President, I would like to point out, even to help the Bureau's work, that this intervention will be on two amendments which we have, the first on unemployment benefit and the second on the amendment to the article on extraordinary support. Therefore, in this intervention, the first two legal norms of the day will be consumed by the Left Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u5	This is therefore an intervention concerning proposals 390 - C, which are to be added to Article 110. o -A — Amendment to the legal regime for the protection of unemployment, and 391 - C, replacing Article 112. o — Extraordinary support for workers' income. Mr. José Soeiro, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block proposed yesterday the vote on an amendment to the unemployment allowance in order to restore the granting periods and to restore the rules that existed before the Troika cuts. These amendments have been rejected, which means that the Government and the Socialist Party understand that we can face the crisis that we will have with the right-wing rules in the unemployment allowance. On the other hand, we proposed that the extraordinary support rules could cover all people who are going to have a reduction in income as well as self-employed workers who had already received support in 2020, and that in 2021 they would be confronted with a condition of resources that did not exist in 2020, and that in 2021 they would deprive tens of thousands of workers of extraordinary support for self-employed people. The Left Block brings to this plenary precisely these two rules, to ensure that no one stays behind and that we do not face the crisis that we will have in 2021 with the rules of the unemployment allowance that the PSD and the CDS have put in the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u7	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, has the floor to speak on the proposal 390 - C, from BE, to add an article 110. o -A — Amendment to the legal regime for the protection of unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens follow the proposal submitted by the Left Block to add Article 110. the -A, even because we also presented three proposals in exactly the same direction, proposals 457 - C, 458 - C and 459 - C, but adding an article 111. o -A — Reduction of the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit to workers on behalf of others, 111. o-B — Reduction of the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit to self-employed persons and members of the statutory bodies of the public, and 111. o-C — Reduction of the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit for selfemployed persons. These three Green proposals were intended to reduce the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefits for workers on behalf of others, self-employed persons and self-employed persons with business activity. In fact, since early March, we have witnessed numerous attacks on the rights of those who work, particularly affecting those who are in a precarious labour situation. Many workers, especially those working with these precarious links, have been discarded, for example, through non-renewal or termination of contracts. In addition to the contracts that have ended, companies have ceased to terminate their contracts in anticipation of their end, or have terminated contracts in an uncertain time before the end of the reason or the concrete situation which has thus given rise to them. However, many of these workers who have been fired or are in the immediate vicinity of dismissal are in a situation of great economic fragility, often without any income or social support. The situation we are living is, of course, worrying about the health of citizens, due to the COVID-19, but it is also worrying about the income of workers who, day after day, are without work, many of them without any income, or even unable to access unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit because they do not meet the guarantee deadline. in this sense, the Greens also consider it essential to reduce by half the guarantee periods established for access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit so as to cover more workers who have been fired or who are at risk of falling into unemployment. We therefore follow up with this proposal from the Block, which proposes to reintroduce the system of access to unemployment benefit which was in force before the amendments promoted by the PSD Government and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u9	Mr Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, now has the floor to speak on the proposal 935 - C, from the PSD, to replace Article 112. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we saw one of the biggest demonstrations in the restoration and similar sector in front of Parliament's stairway. They are people who went to the Assembly of the Republic, asking for help, because they are in a desperate situation, because they see their businesses reduced and see their activities closed. They are people, Mr President, who are contributors to social security, like the other workers, and who fight for the survival of their business. The question is whether, indeed, this Parliament wants to help these people and give them an answer. If so, there is only one way to do this, which is to approve the PSD proposal which is the only one, Mrs and Mrs. Members, I repeat, the only one that contains effective support for the partners-managers of micro and small enterprises in this country, which are the business fabric of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u11	For an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr José Soeiro, the Government's proposal for the State Budget brought progress in the protection of income and in the protection of employment. Still, the Left Block voted against in general. As a specialist, we have made even more progress in the proposal for a State budget. But still, the Left Block has announced that it votes against. Well, let's remember: Layoff at 100 %, protection of employment and workers' income? The Left Block votes against. Extraordinary increase in pensions, since January, for the lowest pensions: how will the Left Block vote the Budget? Oh, my God! Against. The increase in the minimum unemployment benefit limit: how will the Left Block vote the Budget? Oh, my God! Against. The application of a penosity and insanity allowance: how will the Left Block vote the Budget? Oh, my God! Against. The new social provision, which comes in the proposed budget law, has received developments during the process in the specialty, allowing, in particular, that partners-managers can access this new provision;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u13	That's not true! That's a mess!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u14	... that the managers and self-employed, in general confinement, can access the new provision without a condition of resources; that workers on the other hand, when they are without their unemployment benefit, may access this new provision without a condition of resources and that workers in situations of economic and social disprotection can access this new social benefit, provided they are linked to social security, also allowing the extension of the unemployment benefit for another six months. This is a new performance to leave no one behind. And how will the Left Block vote this Budget? Oh, my God! Against. Let it be clear that the Socialist Party has always been available for dialogue and for discussions that met the main priorities of the government line: a budget to combat the public health crisis and the economic and social crisis. But on the left side of the Block, we always receive intransigence and the closed door to find solutions. on our part, we are with quiet consciousness. The discussion of the Specialized Budget brought the responses to the necessary height. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u15	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, in our specialty, we voted in favour of all the measures that meant improvements and against all the measures that were regressions. What we are going to vote on now is the rules that have finally been left on this proposal and there are things that cannot be understood. How does the Socialist Party feel that, in the crisis that we are going to have, right-wing rules should be maintained for unemployment benefit? Oh, my God! An independent worker who in 2020 had support and was not eligible for such support will have a very tight resource condition in 2021, which will exclude tens of thousands of workers. He said: 'But we have made an amendment so that in the administratively closed sectors there is no condition of resources'. Mr. Deputies, what sectors are these? Oh, my God! It's just discos. The generality of self-employed workers will have a resource condition that will exclude them from support that they already had by 2020, so they will be worse by 2021 than they were by 2020. On the situation of informal workers, Mr Deputies, so far, we do not know whether there is only one informal worker who has received the support that has been drawn up. We don't think so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u17	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing Mrs Sandra Pereira speak, I had to ask her two questions. With regard to the management partners, I would like to ask the honourable Member if she would remind herself of the bedside table that the PSD gave during the discussion of the Supplementary Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u19	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u20	He said he did not say on one proposal from the Greens and then finally approved another one, along with the PS, which was less favourable than ours for the management partners. Then, Mrs. Deputy, spoke about yesterday's demonstration of the restoration sector down there. I wanted to ask the honourable Member if, eventually, she went down there to remind people... [[PSD protests.]] If they went down there, they went. I want to know if you've reminded people there that it was the PSD and CDS government that passed VAT (value added tax) of the restoration of 13 % to 23 %. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u21	To intervene on proposal 1424 - C of the CFP, adding Article 139. Mr Bruno Dias, from the PCP, has the floor to rent buildings in shopping centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP has advocated proposal 1424 - C, which relates to the issues of rents of buildings in commercial centres. It's a discussion that's not new. There is a measure that is currently in force, arising from the Supplementary Budget. The CFP proposal aims to respond to the problems that were created, from March and until the entry into force of the Supplementary Budget, in July. There are still issues to be resolved and shopkeepers at malls are unprotected. In 2021, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, the shopkeepers of commercial centres, and the fair distribution of the sacrifices of those who are facing a dramatic situation in trade, restoration and services in relation to these commercial units. We must not fail to emphasise, in any event, that the CFP insists on the need to give a concrete and effective response, not only to those who have activity in shopping centres, but also to all the establishments that have a door to the street. in relation to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the situation is still dramatic and the problems are far from being overcome. We want to appeal to the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative, who voted against the PCP proposal, to reconsider, because we are in time to give a concrete answer in the 2021 budget to these micro and small entrepreneurs, who face very serious problems and who face the future with concern. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u23	To intervene on proposals 1199 - C1 and 1199 - C2, of the PSD, to add an article 208. o -A and Article 208. o-B has the floor Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is not possible to persist in ignoring the issue of commercial income. The Government's solution is to postpone, postpone, postpone and now come to say that it will soon present a bill, a bill which the House does not know. But in the State Budget, he did not present any proposal that met the needs of those who are completely suffocated: restoration, small trade. Solutions need to be found so that they can respond to the crisis. It is not only 'pay the rent' to the tenants, nor 'do not receive now, do they receive' to the landlords. Debt flows. The PSD proposal is simple and sensible: anyone who reduces commercial income to their tenants has an equivalent tax compensation. This means sharing sacrifices among all and helping these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to protect employment, protect their businesses and value the country's future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u25	On the same articles, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, the arrival did not oppose the proposal presented by the CFP, but it was important to make it clear that we cannot respond to a crisis by imposing on others the costs of this crisis and that we cannot create standards in such an unbalanced way that they will burden those who also pay taxes and who have also sustained this country for many years. The arrival now realizes the importance of holding more than hundreds of thousands of shopkeepers in the whole country, and this is a national imperative, but we cannot forget that whoever is on the other side also has taxes and bills to pay. Therefore, this is a bet that is given, it is not a blank check, but a guarantee that what cannot happen in Portugal will be monitored, that it is one that is paying for the crisis of others. Everyone needs help right now, and this case of commercial income is paradigmatic in this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u27	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u28	Mr. President, there was an individual who said: "It's all good people, my umbrella is that it's gone." Listening to the ladies. Members seem to agree with the need to solve the problem, but then the proposal that solves it will fall. The main question is this: at the moment in the State budget we have an opportunity to find a solution and to adopt a rule that solves the problems. The inequalities in the situation are very clear, on the one hand, we have international funds, large economic groups and, on the other, we have small and medium-sized enterprises. It is to the problems of these latter that we want to respond, solving them with concrete solutions. The gentlemen. PSD, PS and CDS-PP members voted against the PCP proposal, but we make a final appeal here to reconsider and look at the dramatic situation of micro, small and medium-sized companies, who are faced with these income problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u29	We vote for the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u30	Mrs. Members, there are no entries for the discussion of Articles 208. o -A is 208. o-B, we move on to the proposal submitted by the PCP, to add an article 252. o -A— Extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector. To speak on this proposal, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For this last day, we have advocated the proposal of the CFP for the creation of an extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector. Insurance companies have had a significant reduction in the costs of claims over the year 2020. The periods of confinement, the reduction of economic activity and telework have made there much less cars on the roads, i.e. fewer accidents and less costs for insurers with the losses. The cars were stopped, but the insurance continued to be charged with the same values. We propose that this additional margin be partly returned to the Portuguese through the creation of a contribution aimed at strengthening the financing of the National Health Service ( SNS ). Countries like France are preparing to apply a rate with these objectives. Nothing justifies the rejection of the PS of this proposal, nor of the various other proposals of the CFP that are intended to increase the revenue, ending with the privileges of them always. I am talking about proposals such as compulsory inclusion or abolition of the Statute for Tax Benefits of exemptions and privileges of speculative sectors. I am also talking about the proposal to strongly tax transfers to tax havens, preventing the profits of large companies, such as the Pink Doce, from contributing to the Dutch State budget, rather than contributing to the Portuguese State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u32	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u33	I also refer to proposals such as the mid-scale of the spill, for taxing profits between 20 and 35 million euros, or the end of public-private partnerships ( PPPs), ending with waste of diverted public resources to feed large private groups. The country's needs require investment and investment requires resources and measures like these that we have presented. If the PS is concerned about the public accounts it can very well approve the extraordinary contribution on insurance, which the PCP here advocates, which, in addition to that, is a proposal that contributes to greater fiscal justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u34	Mrs. Members, having no further entries to speak on the following proposals, we move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2011, of 28 November. To speak on this proposal, Mr Afonso Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PSD presented a proposal providing for a 50 % reduction in the tolls of the ex-SCUTS ( cost-free to the user) inside and in the Algarve. The proposal would enter into force on 1 July 2021. The PS, the Government and the CFP did not want it to enter into force on 1 July and will enter into force on 1 January. That's how our proposal went down! The proposal provided for the government to negotiate with the concessionary companies and thus avoid the impact on the deficit, but the Socialist Party, the Government and the CFP have dropped it because they do not want there to be a renegotiation. The Socialist Party and the Government, in a position of great irresponsibility, preferred to approve an impact of EUR 140 million instead of EUR 70 million. The Socialist Party and the Government, in an irresponsible attitude, prefer to approve the reduction of tolls without worrying about our proposals that balance the impact. A balanced and highly responsible proposal by the PSD was involved here. There is great irresponsibility on the part of the Socialist Party, with Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to amend that vote. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u36	Your proposal is approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u37	I now give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u38	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity only to highlight some of the arguments put forward yesterday and, basically, to say that this decision to reduce tolls generates a brutal increase in expenditure of EUR 1500 million in the coming years. To summarize the discussion on the impact in half a year or a whole year is to forget that this is a decision of EUR 1500 million. Reporting to the numbers of UTAP ( Technical Project Monitoring Unit ), it is not up to 82 million this year or up to 149 million next year, it is 149 million in 2023, in 2024, in 2025, and it significantly pervades 1500 million. We would like to stress that this is a measure contrary to the flexibility of the budgetary limits agreed in Europe. European flexibility is to combat the economic and social crisis and not to reduce tolls in a brutal way. It is a measure that signals to all Portuguese a financial capacity that the country does not really have. It is a kindness in which the Portuguese will not believe, after they have been whipped by various crises. The PSD has always stated against monstrous debts — it is a quotation from the PSD — that may result from non-compliance with the user-payer principle. Today, one forgets this principle and, above all, comes with the argument of renegotiating the concessionaires to extend the deadline for concessions forever.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u40	To conclude, we believe that this is a measure that discredits our budget and seeks to discredit the country in the context of European budgetary discussions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u41	In the context of this article, Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a very quick question. This analysis of what may cost, for many years, is the same as taking a statement from the State budget for this year and making these accounts for 20 years. It doesn't make sense! The question I am asking you is very simple: is there anything to which EUR 1 billion of measures already adopted by the CFP and the Socialist Party in this State budget, Mr Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u43	Negotiated!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u44	Are these EUR 1 billion additional expenditure, on a proposal from the CFP, telling you something? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u45	Mr. State Secretary João Nuno Mendes, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u46	Mr President, the justification for the fact that we are right is that you put the question of renegotiating contracts with dealers, which have very long deadlines. So when we sat down for this discussion, the measure would not be a single year, it would be for all the years of this concession and that is worth EUR 1500 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u47	Mrs. Members, there are no entries to intervene on Articles 265. o -A is 265. o-B, we move on to Article 1. o — Subject matter. I propose that we divide the discussion of this article into two parts. at first, we will discuss proposal 379 - C from the Left Block, and then proposal 953 - C from the Liberal Initiative, since the first concerns the New Bank and the second concerns a strengthening of funds for the Transparency Entity. To speak on the proposal already set out in the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, the New Bank has not yet closed accounts, has not yet found any damage, has not made the request for capital injection which is already expected to remain in more than 478 million. What is at stake at the moment is not the deal with Lone Star, nor even the contract with the European Commission, but the fact that it is in the closure of the New Bank's accounts that the capital injection is decided upon and until then the New Bank has the duty to prove that it is not abusing the same contract. Contracts may be ruinous, but they are not a right to extract the state and taxpayers. The Left Block proposes that this Parliament should not compromise resources without knowing the audit, without ensuring that there are no abuses. That is the duty of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u50	Let us be very clear about this: as soon as the Assembly of the Republic adopts the funds on the map, the decision goes exclusively to the Resolution Fund and no party, nor the Government, can interfere in that decision, regardless of the audit. To approve the report and say that it takes the audit seriously is to lie to people on a subject about which they have only been deceived so far!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u52	We won't do that! In addition, the Socialist Party is still in time to join this vote for responsibility and transparency, instead of joining Mr Ventura, who has led this proposal for transparency and defence of the public interest. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u53	When the New Bank clears its accounts, when the audit draws its conclusions, the Government will bring its decision on the injection to the Assembly of the Republic in due time. If there is room for it, then it will be discussed and voted on. That is our responsibility, for the defence of transparency and public interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u54	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor to intervene in the same proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u55	Mr President, this proposal from BE, proposal 379 - C, aims to reduce the amount of total commitment from the Resolution Fund by eliminating the planned expenditure with financial assets. To this end, the proposal removes from the State budget the authorisation for the transfer of EUR 476 million to the New Bank. Now, if we do the accounts, since the beginning of the financial crisis, the Portuguese have already paid more than EUR 20 billion to try to save the bank. And when we talk about the New Bank, besides not talking about a problem today, we realize that in fact « what is born is wrong, late or never right ». And what's true is that taxpayers are already tired of paying for bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities. Therefore, it is an immorality to which it is important to put an end, that is, to close the tap. As we have already mentioned on other occasions, in our view, the end of this immorality should begin with the New Bank, should begin with the solution that less charges the taxpayers and that best serves the interests of the country. It must be that in our view the solution to be adopted in the case of the New Bank. But for this it is necessary for the New Bank to be in the hands of the State, because only in the hands of the State is it possible to place it at the service of development, of our economy, of the interests of the Portuguese and our country. Because if the State pays, the New Bank must be in the hands of the State, in the hands of the payer. If it is not in the hands of the state, then it is necessary to start defining the lock of the tap, because taxpayers cannot continue to live forever in the contingencies of being called to pay the bill, whenever things go wrong for the banks, because when things go well, shareholders divide profits between themselves, they do not divide them with the taxpayers. Therefore, in view of what is said, the Greens naturally follow this proposal from the Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u56	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after « carrying a lid » of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, despite it, decided to try to hack the PS and then remembered to eliminate the funds from the Resolution Fund, in a populist version of the already known « We did not pay! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It's just that the New Bank case is not a static thing, like it's a photograph, but it's a highly dynamic process, like it's a movie that BE seems to want to turn into a horror film. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] And why do I say that? Let's see the next scenes and we'll take the movie a little bit ahead of us. First scene: everyone inside and outside Portugal is aware that the Portuguese State is not truly obliged to fulfil the contracts it signs and that the Portuguese Parliament encourages it to do so. Second scene: everyone, inside and outside Portugal, realizes that the New Bank can even become decapitalized, thus undermining some trust in depositors and customers. The bank is devalued and we do not forget that the Resolution Fund still has 25 % of that bank. Third scene: with a more fragile bank, fewer depositors, fewer customers we have no doubt, will be the workers of the New Bank first to pay. Fourth scene: The Lone Star receives hand-on-hand, and Courtesy of the Left Block, powerful legal arguments to act the Portuguese state. Sure, Lone Star thanks. There are these several scenes I just don't see scenes...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u58	Only the psyche on the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u59	... where the Portuguese taxpayer gets out of this story. In a pendant, the Left Block devalues the bank, harms New Bank workers and strengthens Lone Star. This block irresponsibility will not solve anything; it will only harm the interests of Portuguese taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u60	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u61	Are you going to answer the IL? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, the state is, and must be, a good person, must be a good person to pay in time and hours, which you have refused... [[Rice from the Under-Secretarys of State and Tax and Deputy Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs and the Member of the PS John Paul Correia.]] Start over there, Mr Secretary of State : pay instead of laughing! Secondly, the State must fulfil the contracts, always! But the fulfilment of a contract has both parties: I pay the account if the account is due and not the account that is submitted to me. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister agrees with this principle, because last year he said that, sitting there. He said precisely that the transfer to the New Bank should only take place after the audit is completed and after the results are public. Well, that's what we're saying now. But, moreover, we do not want to be surprised, as were the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, with someone passing the check on the back of the Members and on the back of the Portuguese. Therefore, after the audit is completed, if the value is due, the Government may present an amendment to the Budget and here it has the commitment of the Democratic Social Party to vote on it, because we must always honour our commitments, but it is in this case and not simply passing a blank check. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u63	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u64	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I understand your obsession with arriving and with André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u65	One more walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u66	I honestly understand, because, in fact, apart from the bath they took in the Azores, they keep carrying bathing, polling behind polling. So I understand the concern with André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u67	Look at the doll!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u68	But today André Ventura will tell you something and will explain to you first that your proposal is a legal aberration, because, apart from inviting non-compliance, it does not properly clarify the conditions in which a transfer may or may not be blocked. In addition, André Ventura does not make the Left Block which, in equal proposals of the CH and the PAN, votes against each other and in favour of others. Therefore, this blindness that the Left Block demonstrates the Arrival today will not demonstrate. For this reason, it is very clear to us that we have proposed the setting up of a committee of inquiry to the New Bank, which is VV. Ex.as did not vote in favour, I repeat, that VV. Ex.as did not vote in favour, but they appear here today as if they were the architects of morality and the New Bank. Shame on the New Bank! [[BE's protests.]] But contrary to what the Block does with the Arrival, the Arrival today will not oppose the Block's proposal, contrary to what the Block does.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u69	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u70	But we will not vote in favour for one reason: because the proposal is legally poorly constructed, it is legally undefined and renders a bad service to the Portuguese people. Moreover, contrary to what the Left Block does, it will ensure that it is not afraid when it has to vote either with the Left Block or with the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u71	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake in this proposal is a transfer of money from the Resolution Fund to the New Bank. That's what's at stake. And the decision we are making today, yes, is serious and, therefore, beyond the debates, it is appropriate that there is some serenity and that we make some history here. The story began long before 2014 at BES ( Banco Espírito Santo), but it is important to analyze the sale and contract of this sale. When it was done, the Government of Portugal and the Prime Minister of Portugal ensured that there was no public guarantee and that this sale would have no direct or indirect impact on public accounts or new charges on taxpayers. At the time, the CDS criticized this sale contract, warned that this was a way to push forward the charge to the State and that this shared asset management model was a very bad idea. The Government has advanced, it has been found that, in fact, this model is a very bad idea and that, yes, it has, as it is obvious, impact, direct and indirect, in the public accounts and so much it has to be approved here in Parliament by the transfer of the Resolution Fund to the New Bank, as you are seeing from this discussion that we are having. over these years we have never stopped monitoring either what happened at BES or what happened at the New Bank. In recent years we have seen a gradual deterioration in the public square of discussions related to the New Bank in this way — and I would like to remind you that — in May this year, the Prime Minister of Portugal has ensured that there would be no more State aid until the results of an audit of the New Bank were known. If it is true that this was not the case, it is also true that no one at the time claimed that a contractual breach could be involved. If what is now in issue is the contractual non-compliance, then when Mr Prime Minister said that he did not pay until there was an audit, in fact, all the mechanisms that are being talked about now had to be activated at that time. I therefore find it difficult for the government to use this argument now, because what is being discussed today is precisely whether the transfer should be authorised without the audit being known that, once and for all, these doubts about asset management, which is the same thing as selling assets, and whose need the government itself recognises. I would also like to say that, yes, there is a contract, which was signed by the Portuguese State and even when the governments sign contracts that are poorly negotiated and even when they refuse the contracts, as I have seen here several times, this must be taken into account and it is precisely because of this fact, and only because of that fact that the CDS did not vote in favour. Finally, I would like to say that there is a very easy solution to this issue and that does not imply any contractual breach: it is the audit, which is already promised and is already being made, to be delivered to, once and for all, if you clarify the doubts related to the sale of assets. This is because either the assets are not being sold badly and then all this is an injustice and the money has to be there in compliance with the contract, or they are being sold badly and then, in compliance with the contract, the money does not have to be placed there. The government has time to do so until the time comes to raise the question of transfer. Please clarify the doubts and Parliament will be here to resolve them. The issue of contractual non-compliance is a false issue. There is space and time to resolve the matter so there is serenity and will to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u73	Mr André Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the New Bank in the context of the budgetary procedure where the position of the NAP has been very clear since the first day. We did not want any more direct injections of public money into the New Bank, and this was achieved in this Budget, but we also did not want direct injections or blank cheques to give the Government a free handkit to inject, at its bel-plesure, money into the New Bank after the audit requested by the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore voted against the rule that actually allowed it in this State budget — Article 119. the — that, remember, was viable with the favourable vote of the Socialist Party and the abstentions of the PSD, BE and PCP. But we did more: we proposed that any injection should not only be subject to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, but also to a technical assessment by the UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) and the Council of Public Finance to verify the impact of any operation on the sustainability and balance of public accounts. This proposal was in the Budget last year, on a proposal from the NAP and the PSD, it dealt with the theme of the New Bank with responsibility, but this year it was cast with the vote against the PS, the PCP, the CH, and, it is frightening, the PSD. How is it that, in less than a year, the PSD just co-authored an advance for its blocker? The NAP also said that any public money bleeding brake for the New Bank would always have to be accompanied by the renegotiation of sales agreements. This renegotiation could also be a way of avoiding new injections beyond those provided for in the sales agreements, of halting new sales of asset portfolios for scrapping and of ensuring that the State could hold the Lone Star stock fund accountable for its mismanagement and for the undue benefit of public money. This budget could have gone this way, but it was not because this proposal of the NAP was cast with the vote against the PS and the IL and abstentions of the PSD, the CDS and the CH. The question is how can the PSD, a moderate party, which aims to be a government and which says that it is guided by responsibility, budgetary balance and stability in the country, could impermissible this proposal of the NAP and remain with a populist« We do not pay! "?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u75	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this PSD is unreliable. The PSD came to this budgetary process to add a crisis to the economic and social crisis that the country is experiencing. The PSD said it voted against the Budget because this Budget distributed what it had and what it did not have and that it gave everything to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u77	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u78	In the meantime, it presents proposals for amendments to the budget with a high budgetary impact, which are real tackled, such as payment on account, which began by being a proposal that — and we are talking about taxes on companies that will have profits in the year 2021 — was for all companies, then withdrawing large companies and then applying only to the first quarter. The PSD proposes to reduce tolls, but the proposal has been submitted without ensuring budgetary neutrality and, as the PSD has presented it and has been voted on, goes to deficit, that is, it is another example of its irresponsibility in budgetary matters. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] On the issue of the New Bank, which is clear, the taxpayers' money is not at stake, the tax money is not at stake. The PSD joined its votes with the votes of the Left Block to prevent the bank from solving a bank problem. The PSD has put its votes to the votes of the Left Block, which means breaking a contract, an international commitment. This is breaking trust in the financial sector. This PSD attitude is an atomic bomb in the financial sector, tearing out what is most important in economic activity, which is the stability of the financial sector. And do it at the worst, at a time when the country needs micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, where the country needs to have a stabilized financial sector, so that it continues to capitalise on companies, so that its balance sheets are not crushed. The PSD chooses its political agenda, the seat of power and to take power in any way, or to join its votes with those of the Left Block to cause another crisis. [[PSD member Rui Rio's laughter.]] I would like to remind you that in the area of New Bank, in the search for truth and in the creation of monitoring and monitoring mechanisms, the PSD does not teach the PS. The PS was one of the requesting parties of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. I repeat, it was the Socialist Party one of the parties that requested the parliamentary commission of inquiry to the New Bank. It was also the PS that proposed an independent audit by the Court of Auditors to know how the New Bank Administration has sold the portfolio of assets, whether credit or real estate. Therefore, we are perfectly at will in this matter. But we were hoping for more of the PSD. This PSD is unreliable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u79	I now give the floor again to Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to stress again that the Government's budget does not have any State loan to the New Bank and that the transfer to the New Bank is made for the first time by resorting exclusively to contributions and loans from the banking sector. We therefore call on all parliamentary groups to consider this matter. The New Bank is one of the largest Portuguese financial institutions. The responsibility for direct supervision does not belong to the Banco de Portugal, but to the European Central Bank ( ECB ). In other words, it is the European Central Bank which is responsible for the supervision of the New Bank, in particular all matters and all contracts which are concluded with the New Bank and which concern a very serious matter, which is the solvency of the New Bank, I repeat, the solvency of the New Bank. The failure to comply with the contingent capital mechanism, which aims to restore the capital and solvency levels of the New Bank, has an impact on the fulfilment of the ratios required by the European Central Bank and the Single Supervisory Mechanism ( MUS ) to fulfil the obligations assumed. So it's not just the compromises. Sometimes, when you hear about the commitments in this framework, it seems that they are ‘so-so-so’ principles. No, no, no. It's obligations! Portugal has entered into obligations before the European Commission and before the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u81	Was it? You have to say that to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u82	And now we are already receiving questions about the fact that the transfer is expected to be less than the maximum. With this decision, we will generate uncertainty in the markets from which we are receiving these questions. We will generate uncertainty in the European Central Bank and the Single Supervisory Mechanism on the real possibility of the New Bank to meet the capital ratio. I remember that we have already done an independent audit and that we have the second independent audit to begin. Mr Rui Rio asked him to be sent to the Attorney-General of the Republic, and he replied. Therefore, we are faced with a situation in which the Portuguese State is placed in a clear position of non-compliance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u83	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from BE now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Finance, the matter is serious, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles said. It's really serious. The scandal of BES / New Bank is the financial scandal of the century, and the Portuguese have only been deceived. They promised the Portuguese that it was free and already cost EUR 4, EUR 9 billion for BES, plus EUR 3 billion for Lone Star. And now they are telling the people who will wait for an audit, while at the same time allowing the money to go to the Resolution Fund, so that it can be available without ever consulting the Assembly of the Republic, without ever consulting the Government and to do what it fully understands, regardless of the audit. So let us be very clear about what we tell people. If we want to tell the truth, we know that it is not possible to authorize the money and to say that we are waiting for an audit. That is to deceive the Portuguese again on a subject that has already traumatized them so much. And we can't do that! And it's not just us, and it's not just PSD. I recall that there is a majority in the Assembly of the Republic who is not willing to pass this check blank. It is that in favour of this proposal they did not only vote on the PSD and BE, they also voted on the PCP, the PAN, with the abstention of other parties. Therefore, in fact, who is isolated in this matter is even the Socialist Party, which refuses to adopt a measure of transparency, of rigour...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u85	Mrs. Deputy, time's up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u86	I shall finish, Mr President, just to say the following: it is not worth blackmailing, it is not worth making dramas on such a serious subject as this. It's not about the contract, it's not about breaking any contracts. There is only one thing at stake: transparency in such an important decision. That, yes, gives confidence to the financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u87	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u88	Mr President, listening to Mrs Mariana Mortágua speaking of confidence in the financial system is the same as hearing the NAP talking about animal slaughter centres. I mean, exactly the opposite of what you want. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] The honourable Member is not concerned about financial stability. The honourable Member has been upset with the Socialist Party and now wants to settle a fact against the Socialist Party. And he managed to get a jigajoga to get out of this. But it is important to say that if the Left Block uses here its traditional financial level populism for the basement, Mr. Secretary of State, it is not true to say that there are no guarantees here. If we look at this proposal — legally inconsequential and, above all, legally poorly done — there is no total blockade of transfer to the New Bank, there is a conditional blockade of transfer. It is true that this can affect externally the rating of the Republic, the sovereign national debt and the level of interest. It's true you can. But the truth is also that the proposal that will be made available here today does not place a final and unconditional blockade on the transfer to the New Bank. I'm suspicious of wanting to give reason to the Left Block, but there's one thing Mrs. Mariana Mortágua is right: it's that the PS isn't alone in this house. The PS has in this House parties who long wanted only transfers if approved by Parliament. We have only come here, because Parliament has never been able to define a rule that says there are no transfers before Parliament decides. We have only come to this point, because the New Bank has had enough of the 'boilers' that this Parliament has prevented from investigating, such as the election campaigns, among others. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] This leads the Portuguese today, out there, to greatly distrust the New Bank. There is a lack of trust and that was not the Left Block that created, neither the PSD, nor the Reach, nor the Liberal Initiative. It was the Socialist Party and the Government. That is why arriving will not prevent this proposal from moving forward today. It is clear that the proposal may have consequences, but the PS must remember that it does not govern alone in this representative democracy that we have in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u89	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u90	Mr President, I just wanted to remember what I said in my speech. There is room and time for the government to proceed with the audit and submit a new proposal for authorization to Parliament, as he said he would. What is not acceptable is to listen systematically to the government saying that it needs more information, that it will send here, that it will send there, that it needs more this and more that, and never speak in contract. And then, when there really is a proposal which basically desires what the government has been saying during these times, it says that there is, after all, a contract to comply with. There is, in fact, a contract to fulfill, but of the two, one: or nothing is happening in the New Bank, the contract is to fulfill and I do not understand, with all honesty, what the government has been saying during these two years; or, then, there is indeed a problem and it has to be solved. It is not resolved after the contract has ended, it is resolved in time to understand whether or not it affects the performance of the contract. It's as raw as this. There's time for that. It is the government's political will to resolve this rather than create a political crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u91	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u92	Mr President, to hear Mrs Mariana Mortágua say, twice, that what is in question is not to prevent the transfer, is to prevent the transfer before the result of the audit, it proves that the true objective of the Left Block is not to wait for the audit, but to create a political fact that embarrasss the government. I am not suspected of being ashamed or afraid, or afraid, or unwilling to embarrass the government. But if that was what they wanted, why did they not propose that the transfer should depend on the approval of this House, as we have already proposed several times?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u93	We didn't propose? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u94	And you too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u95	And what was the result?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u96	Why didn't they do it now? Why did we propose to the Left Block an inquiry committee where these matters are included? Why was the Court of Auditors not required to approve the proposal earlier? [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] No, no, no. You are doing terrorism, blocking money, generating shock waves in the national and international financial system, which will have consequences. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] This has a name: irresponsibility and populism. in this war, do not count on the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u97	Mrs. Members, having no further entries for interventions on this proposal, we turn to proposal 953 - C, tabled by the IL, which concerns the strengthening of funds for the Transparency Entity. To speak on this proposal, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, we have advocated this proposal 953 - C to reinforce the Court of Auditors' words so that the Transparency Entity will finally see the light of the day. It may seem a smaller proposal, especially following the subject we have just discussed, but this proposal has a funny story. Yesterday, within the Commission, the PS agreed with us and with two more parties, which have identical proposals, the approval of this proposal. A few minutes ago, with its usual disorientation, the PS finally gave the saying by no means and voted against this proposal, without valid arguments, in fact, already recognised. So today, in which we only advocate this proposal, we give the PS the chance to correct the vote you made yesterday in the Commission and to vote in favour. This proposal ends up being symbolic. Of what? That an agreement made with the PS doesn't last an hour. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS, today have a good chance of voting in favour of proposal 953 - C, to reinforce the Constitutional Court's funds and for the Transparency Entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u99	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the NAP gives a minute to the government, and I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also on the subject of the New Bank, would like to make it clear that an independent audit was conducted by one of the largest international audit companies in the world, which produced a document of about 400 pages, which was sent to all institutions : European Central Bank, Banco de Portugal, Resolution Fund, European Commission, Attorney-General of the Republic, Assembly of the Republic. So far, we have not seen any document made by the PSD or the Left Block that supports whatever it might be, on a legal basis, with regard to this 400-page text. But this work did the government. The Government has taken over the report, has listed all the weaknesses — which it has referred to the Banco de Portugal and, in this way, to the European Central Bank and the Resolution Fund — and expects these weaknesses to be overcome. In meeting what Mrs Cecilia Meireles referred to, a new audit will be conducted, which will be ready in time for the new transfer. But I am not referring to the audit of the Court of Auditors, because of course the government has nothing to do with this process. Question: What is the schedule of the Court of Auditors' audit? Because this is a very important dimension. Will the government stand by until when? The New Bank is waiting until when? Until the end of 2021? It is that, in relation to this audit, which will be done by the independent auditor, we have conditions to ensure that it will be ready before the financial transfer is carried out. So the questions are the following: is it a decision of a Parliament, which is called upon on strictly technical basic information, which can produce a dispute? Is this dispute liable to the arbitral tribunal? Do you have to have the supervisory authorities' judgment? Will Parliament replace the regulatory institutions in this judgment? Or the European Central Bank on this matter? To the courts? to the arbitral tribunal? So at this moment, what we have is a situation of total legal uncertainty, in which we have Parliament to replace the regulatory supervisory institutions and also the arbitral tribunals themselves and the court. I also stress that the transfer that has been placed is a transfer that is in line with the decisions of the European Commission and which is substantially lower than all other transfers. I stress that at the moment in Europe — and that is an important point — is being discussed what is called the common backstop, i.e. the possibility of the European Stability Mechanism ( MEE ) financially supporting the Single European Resolution Mechanism ( MUR ) through a credit line that can significantly reach 40 billion. But this will only happen if all countries demonstrate that they are on an irreversible path of NPL ( Non-Performing Loan ) reduction, both at gross and net levels. And we, the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u101	Mr. Secretary of State, I call attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u102	We assume that responsibility. This responsibility today needs to be clarified in the Assembly of the Republic. We are not going to do as we do in the tolls—and we assume our responsibilities—in which decisions are made and the next day the government will solve the problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u103	We'll solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u104	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed to the voting stage, but first there is a request from the honourable Members. Members of the Government, in order to take a 15-minute break. So it's 11 hours and 10 minutes, at 11 hours and 25 minutes here we'll be back to resume work. I also announce that we already have quorum. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's, then, interrupt the work. [[It was 11 hours and 10 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 11 hours and 36 minutes.]] We shall begin the voting of the rules avoked by the plenary. Let us begin with the proposal 390 - C, submitted by BE, to add an article 110. o -A — Amendment to the Legal Employment Protection Scheme. A breakdown of the vote has been requested, so we will begin by voting together on paragraphs 1 and 3 of proposal 390 - C of BE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 110 ( 2 ). o -A, which is contained in BE's proposal 390 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 391 - C, submitted by BE, replacing Article 112. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] We move on to proposal 935 - C of the PSD to replace Article 112. The proposal of the law. Here's a breakdown. Let us begin with an addition of paragraph 2 ( a ). Let's vote for the addendum. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall vote on paragraph 5. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the addendum to paragraph 9.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u106	Mr President, I'm sorry, are we voting on paragraph 5 or paragraph 2 (d)?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u107	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u108	Were we voting on paragraph 5 or point (d) of paragraph 2? It's because several breakdowns had been requested...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u109	We voted for paragraph 2 ( a ) which was approved. We voted for paragraph 5 which was approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u110	But in the addition of paragraph 5, the PCP votes against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u111	It is therefore not approved in that case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u112	Yeah, it's not approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u113	And the Greens also vote against, right? Therefore, the addition of paragraph 5 is rejected. We shall now vote on paragraph 9. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1424 - C, tabled by the CFP, on the addition of Article 139. o -A— Rentals of buildings in commercial centres, on which there is also a request for breakdown. So we begin by voting Article 139 (1) and (2). o -A of proposal 1424 - C of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP, CH and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now voting on paragraph 3, also from proposal 1424 - C, from the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and CH.]] We proceed to the vote on proposal 1199 - C1, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 208. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes in favour of the PS, BE and CDS-PP and abstentions of the PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The proposal 1199 - C2, submitted by the PSD, is followed by the addition of Article 208. o-B.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u114	Mr President, I am sorry, but I will have to ask for this vote to be disaggregated. I therefore asked for the joint vote on Articles 8. o-C is 8. o-D and Article 8. o-B separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u115	Sir, I'm sorry, but I'm not getting what you're saying, at least. So are you referring to the article we are voting on?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u116	Mr President, with regard to Article 208. o-B and the proposal for amendment 1199 - C2, submitted by the PSD, wanted to request the breakdown of the vote on Articles 8. o-C is 8. o-D, together, and then Article 8. o-B.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u117	Mr. Deputy, I should have informed you earlier. In any case, we will do as the honourable Member has proposed. We therefore jointly vote for Articles 8. o-C is 8. o-D of the proposed amendment 1199 - C2, of the PSD. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and CH, votes against PS and IL and abstentions by non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on Article 8. o-B, also contained in the proposal 1199 - C2, of the PSD, to add an article 208. o-B. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and BE, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH and with abstentions from the PCP, the PEV, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let's go to Article 252. o -A. [[Pause.]] I'm sorry, but we have to go back, because in Article 112. we voted on everything, but I forgot to put the body of the article to the vote. Therefore, Article 112. o — Extraordinary support for workers' income, we shall vote on the body of the article. We are talking about proposal 935 - C, the body of the article... of the body of paragraph 2... Who votes against? [[Pause.]] Who's away? [[Pause.]] Has it been approved... has it been approved unanimously?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u118	Mr. President, no, no. Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u119	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u120	Are we voting on the PSD proposal body or on the bill body? It is that, Mr President, as you have reported, we would be voting on the body of the bill rather than on the body of the PSD proposal. If it is to vote on the PSD proposal, we must repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u121	Mr Duarte Pacheco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u122	Mr. President, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party is to be replaced, so we have to vote on the body and all that remains...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u123	Proposed by PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u124	...proposed by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u125	So we're going to vote on the body proposed by the PSD. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Therefore, the body proposed by the PSD was approved on Article 112. o. We now turn to the vote on proposal 1381 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 252. o -A— Extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We now turn to the vote on proposal 192 - C, tabled by the NAP, on the addition of Article 263. o -A — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 622 - C, also of the NAP, on the addition of Article 263. o -A — Amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1341 - C of the NAP, adding a Rule 263. o -A — Amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, BE, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on the proposal 1103 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 264. o -A — Amendment to Law No 50 / 2018 of 16 August, Framework Law on the transfer of competences to local authorities and to intermunicipal entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the proposal 298 - C from the CFP to add Article 265. o -A- Amendment to Law No 53 / 2014 of 25 August ( Approves the legal regime for municipal financial recovery by regulating the Municipal Support Fund ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, abstentions from the PSD and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Rodrigues were rejected.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 303 - C of the CFP for the addition of Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September ( Establishes the financial arrangements for local authorities and intermunicipal entities ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u126	Mr President, if possible, I wanted to break up Article 25 ( 1 ( b ). Article 35 ( 3 ). or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u127	Madam Member, I'm sorry, but asking for these breakdowns at the end of the hour is always very complicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u128	All right, so I'm voting in full.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u129	Not realizing what you are saying, due to the mask, it is no longer complicated and becomes impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u130	Mr President, if it is possible in this vote to disaggregate Article 25 ( 1 ( b ). Article 35 ( 3 ). the, points ( c) of Article 52 ( 5 ) and Article 52 ( 7 ). Article 54 ( 1 ) and ( c ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u131	All right, that'll be it. We shall vote on Article 25 ( 1 ( b ). the, of proposal 303 - C, of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 35 ( 3 ). the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u132	Mrs. Members, it is now important to vote on Article 52 ( c ). the, of the same proposal 303 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 52 ( 7 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall now vote on Article 54 (1) ( c ). o [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall finally proceed to the vote on Article 16 (6) and (7). Article 19. Article 25 ( a ). Article 36. Article 40 ( 2 ) and ( 6 ) in Article 49 ( 10 ) and in Article 49 ( 10 ). the proposal 303 - C of the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on proposal 1139 - C from the PSD. The breakdown of Article 4 ( 1 ( a ) has been requested. or...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u133	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u134	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u135	Mr President, Article 152. , paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic expressly states that the breakdown of votes in the specialty can only be made by articles, numbers or points. However, it happens that this PSD proposal has no points, it can be unfolded by numbers, it cannot be unfolded by letters because it does not contain points, the proposal only has numbers. It is therefore either to vote on the article as a whole or to vote on the number. It is true that the PSD could have given the consent and, without opposition from the House, the Rules of Procedure may be fined. With any party opposing and demanding compliance with the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure must be complied with. Therefore, we do not give our consent to this unfolding because it, from our point of view, corrupts the political meaning and meaning of our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u136	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u137	Mr President, in this case, there is no need for the PSD's consent, because what is being done is exactly the same as what has been done in dozens of other votes. In fact, I call on Mr Marques Guedes to check how the amendments to the tax codes were voted on, in which points and numbers were voted on with amendments to the substance and, at the end, the body of the articles, with this breakdown made, again, at the beginning, in the scripts. Therefore, the way in which the breakdown is proposed here is exactly the same as in the vote of tens of other articles during the budget proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u138	Mr. Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u139	Mr President, what Mr. João Oliveira has said is true, but he has forgotten to say the most important thing: that is when no one opposes him. Because when there is opposition from some party, the Rules of Procedure must be met. The Rules of Procedure exist to defend the position of minorities, not to defend the majority, because otherwise the compressor roll laid the rule of law to the evils. Since the Bureau is the guardian of the Rules of Procedure, what I ask is that the Rules of Procedure be fulfilled because the PSD does not agree with this development. Article 152 should therefore be complied with. Regulation ( 2 ), in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u140	Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor, but I ask for this incident to end quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u141	Mr President, this issue was exceeded yesterday because the vote in the Commission was done with exactly this script here and that was the result. We fail to understand whether the PSD even wants the tolls to be reduced or not, because, by the way, it is either to set a pretext for the proposal not to be approved. The vote here is exactly what was taken yesterday in the Commission, moreover, corresponding to dozens of other votes, as I have just said, that they were done not by anyone's whim or because there is no opposition. This has been done because this is the way the vote must be done: we must first vote on the substance of the amendments that are being proposed and, at the end, on the body of the article. That is precisely what is reflected here in this proposal and that is what happened to dozens of other proposals, moreover, without ever having the PSD raised any problem with that, nor requiring any kind of verification of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u142	Mr. João Oliveira, an issue has been raised in any way on the Rules of Procedure and therefore there is no agreement of all banks that we cannot proceed with these breakdowns, as envisaged here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u143	Mr President, I am sorry, but the regimental vote is here. The regimental vote with the breakdown of what is voted on is that which is here, which, moreover, has been done in relation to all the other articles. If the PSD does not want the tolls to be reduced to assume this, but does not arrange these to prevent us from voting on the reduction of the tolls, which was approved yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u144	Mr President, there is no consensus in plenary if we proceed to this side of the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, there is no consensus. How does the PSD propose that this be voted on?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u145	Mr President, on the part of the PSD, even because the proposal is ours, we can vote on the article as a whole and approve it because we will vote in favour. If anyone wants to unfold by numbers it's possible, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u146	Mrs. Members, I think that when there are these breakdowns and the parties in one thing vote A in others vote B, in others they abstain, there is a simple solution that is to take out an average and vote in favour or vote against or abstain in accordance with the overall logic of the article. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u147	Mr President, as a mathematician, I must tell you that mathematics does not always apply to politics, so from this point of view, the analysis is not so concrete and the consequences are not so linear. Now, on this subject, I would like to ask whether it is in fact an administrative bottleneck that you want to create here and not solve an internal problem. I think the PSD has to think about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u148	Mr, there is no consensus, so we will have to vote together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u149	Mr President, I'm sorry, but this issue was dealt with yesterday in the Commission and the PSD agreed that the vote would be done this way... [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u150	We cannot now amend the vote which was taken yesterday and which allowed the reduction of the tolls to be reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u151	We're voting in plenary. The President who is conducting these votes is the President of the Assembly of the Republic and is not prepared to go beyond the Rules of Procedure unless there is consensus. As there is no consensus, we shall vote on the article together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u152	Mr President, we want to maintain the breakdown by numbers. Even if we do not agree with this solution, because it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure, there is the possibility of dividing the vote by numbers and we really want it to be divided.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u153	Mrs. Members will therefore vote on paragraph 1 of the proposal 1139 - C, of the PSD, to add an article 265. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2011, of 28 November. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the IL, and abstentions against the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2 of that proposal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL, and abstentions against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on paragraph 4 of the same amendment proposal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the IL and abstained from PS, BE and CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1255 - C1, of the PSD, for the addition of Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, vote against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the PS, the PAN and the unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues. Who's away? [[Pause.]] The Liberal Initiative was absent. Who votes in favour? [[Pause.]] They voted in favour of the other parliamentary and party groups, and the proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u154	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u155	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u156	Mr President, I would like to ask you to repeat the vote, with a breakdown, because, from the previous vote for this one, for us, it becomes necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u157	Mr President, is it to repeat the vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u158	Yes, Mr President, and, if I may, with the following breakdown: we would vote in Rule 98. the paragraph 1 to 4, plus paragraph 6 ; then paragraph 5 ; and finally the rest of Article 265. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u159	Mr President, at the last hour, this turns the Bureau's life into a small hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u160	Mr President is right, but that is exactly how you voted yesterday in the Commission, and I will be able to repeat it to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u161	You can repeat, slowly, if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u162	We call for the vote on Rule 98 within this amendment. the paragraph 1 to 4, plus paragraph 6 ; for another vote of Article 98. the proposal for an amendment to paragraph 5 ; and then the rest of the article...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u163	No, no! We're not voting on that. Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u164	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u165	Mr President, the proposal was approved yesterday in the Commission. The only thing we have to vote on is what has to be voted on in plenary, which is the amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of the Law of Local Authorities. So it is only that part, which has nothing to do with the breakdown that the Bloc was referring to, which has to be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u166	Does that mean that there is only one vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u167	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u168	Yeah, we should all be careful. Mrs. Members, let us then repeat the vote on proposal 1255 - C1, of the PSD, for the addition of Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to draw your attention to the PSD bench. At the Bureau we received a call from Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, who is in the office and wants to know how she can vote differently from the bench. In order to vote in a way different from the bench, it must be here and it must be the PSD Parliamentary Group that decides that you are here. It is not the Bureau that decides, it is the PSD Parliamentary Group. I therefore ask the PSD Parliamentary Group to provide for this because the Bureau cannot solve problems of parliamentary groups. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with the votes. We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1143 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 265. o-B — Amendment to Decree-Law No 67 -A / 2010 of 14 June 2010 [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem just like we had recently, with a breakdown in points, etc. and, therefore, we will have to vote on the proposal only by numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u169	Mr President, therefore, the vote is by numbers, exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u170	Let's start by voting paragraph 1, including the body, of the proposed addition. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and IL, and abstentions against the NAP and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We are now voting on paragraph 2 of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the NAP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We shall proceed to the vote on paragraph 3 of this proposal for an addendum. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the IL and abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u171	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u172	Mr. João Paulo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u173	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group under Article 69 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, requires the interruption of work for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u174	Mr. Deputy, for 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u175	Yes, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure allow interruption up to 30 minutes, we are asking for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u176	All right, sir, let's interrupt the work for 20 minutes. [[It was 12 hours and 12 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 12 hours and 37 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask all of you to return to the Chamber to start voting again. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start work again. Within the framework of Article 1. o — Subject matter, of the proposed law, we voted on proposal 379 - C, of the Left Block, which amends map 4 on the organic classification of expenditure of the central government subsector. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask who votes against. [[Pause.]] They voted against the PS, the Liberal Initiative, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues and Mrs. PSD members elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques, which is present by video conference. Who's away? [[Pause.]] The CDS-PP, the PAN and the Arrival were abstained. The votes in favour of the other banks and Members are not sufficient and therefore the proposal has been rejected. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u177	Mr President, it was to report an amendment to the vote of the Members of the PSD by Madeira, which is not against but in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u178	Madam Member, we are voting on a proposal from the Left Block in which the PSD...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u179	Mr. President, can I just ask for a minute's break?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u180	Yes, Mrs. Member. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Deputy, what are you doing? Members have asked to come to the Chamber to be able to express a different sense of vote from the rest of the PSD Parliamentary Group, otherwise this amendment would not make sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u181	Yes, Mr. President, that's true. You are right, but at the moment we have changed the sense of vote, which will be in favour. That is, the vote of the three PSD Members elected by the Madeira circle will not be against, but in favour, which means that we will follow the meaning of the PSD bench vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u182	So, the gentlemen. Members came to the Chamber to say they were voting with the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u184	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u185	Mr President, in the face of this change of circumstances, it might be useful to repeat the vote in order to be sure of the outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u186	We are going to repeat the vote, Mr, because it is really a matter of this importance that we have these jokes, which are not due to the Bureau, but rather to the functioning of the parliamentary groups and to some Members....................................................................................................................................... Let us then repeat the vote on proposal 379 - C from the Left Block. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the PS, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 953 - C, tabled by the IL, amending Map 4. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PCP and the ENP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus arrived at the end of the vote on the articles and proposals avoked by the plenary. Before we close the debate on Bill Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021, I would like to thank all the work that has been done in the Committee on Budgets and Finance for your President, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, and for all the Vice-Presidents, who have replaced themselves several times in the marathons that have developed there and which I have sometimes had occasion to follow. to the services of the Assembly and in particular to that Commission the thanks of the President of the Assembly of the Republic. Let us then start the closing period. First of all, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u188	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u189	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and some members of the Government are now entering the Chamber, so almost in solidarity with Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I think it might be better to take a brief break.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u190	So, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a brief break. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, we are in a position to start the period for the end of the debate. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u191	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think I will not be the only one in this House, and even outside it, who, over many days and long hours of budgetary debate and endless votes, have asked the following question: why? Why is all this effort and all this night sleepy of the excellent employees and services — which I take advantage of to greet and thank, and I know I am not alone — the advisers, journalists and Members? The answer to this question is certainly not that this budget debate serves to have an excellent budget, so that the country can deal with the pandemic and prepare Portugal to get out of the crisis faster and stronger. We all realize that this is not that budget. But I believe that I must share with you other possible answers to this great question: why did this budget debate serve? First of all, this budgetary debate has served to show that there is a huge disorientation in the government. He does not know what he is doing in the fight against the pandemic — that we all realize — and this Budget also shows that he has no idea or strategy to recover the economy, which is shockingly the poor relative of this Budget. As I said in the opening of the debate, this budget has money for electoral and political customers, it has money for public investment of non-existent or doubtful return, it has more than 500 million to bury in the TAP — the account already goes to 1700 million, but the unions have already warned that this does not reach half of what is going to be needed — it has money to increase the public service salary to 800 million euros, to keep happy the customers of the PS and the PCP. There is money for all this and more, but there is no money for a concrete plan to recover the delays of the SNS and save lives, no measures to stimulate private investment, no desire to lower taxes, and the PS even takes pride in having a lot of luck in tax not increasing. As many have anticipated, this Budget shows that PS manages poorly in times of fat cows and badly in times of lean cows. Secondly, in this budgetary debate it was clear the size of the invoice that left parties presented to the PS to enable the Budget. With regard to the PCP and PAN invoices, the Government has decided to pay, or at least to break half, because it seems that in the end they will abstain ; the left block invoice was too high and the government will have said 'pay you'. Speaking in Block de Left, this budget debate has also served to demonstrate that it is not a good idea to have a biased strategy based on resentment and spite. It is understood that the Block has been rejected for having bluffed, thinking that the PS could not live without it and that in the end it has been exchanged by others. But despite is bad advisor, especially for parties with populist tendencies, such as the Left Block. With its proposal on the Resolution Fund, the Left Block manages to devalue a bank in which the Resolution Fund still has 25 %, to harm New Bank workers and to strengthen Lone Star's arguments. If the hate of the Left Block to the private was not known, it was appropriate to ask: which side is the Left Block on which side is it? Thirdly, this budgetary debate has also served to mask the shameful omission of this Parliament by not marking the 45 years of 25 November which took place yesterday. There was no ceremony, evocation, poster or e-mail whatsoever. Nothing! Zero! The Portuguese Parliament ignored the date, showing that it did not realize the obvious: without November 25, the meaning of the 25th April we celebrated would be quite different. It was only in November that April began and it is essential that we continue to celebrate that date. And the greater the resistance on the left to celebrate on 25 November, the more we need to do, to preserve the memory of that date for the new generations, because people without memory are doomed to repeat the same mistakes. Finally, this budgetary debate has also served to make clear the importance of a party such as the Liberal Initiative in Portugal and in this Parliament, a party that assumes as liberal throughout the whole line, in society, in politics, in the economy, which always places above any practical considerations, of any conveniences of the moment, of any electoral or electoral bargaining the values of freedom, human rights and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u192	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u193	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, it was clear that there is a party such as the Liberal Initiative in Portugal and in this Parliament, a party that is not afraid to be the first to question the limitations on individual freedoms and vote against the state of emergency ; that it should not be held accountable when it comes to condemning tyrants and tyrants in China, Belarus or Hungary ; that it does not change its sense of vote from day to day just because social network trolls confuse irresponsibility with fun.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u194	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u195	So when, at the end of this speech, I turn to the initial question, what is the point of this very heavy budgetary procedure? — the Liberal Initiative has at least a good answer: it serves to motivate us to continue to fight, tirelessly, for a more liberal Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u196	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u197	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This will probably be the last socialist budget in the coming years. And so it will be because everyone has already realized, starting with the government itself, that this budget is not to execute and, as it is not to execute, the bill of the Communist Party and the PAN can be given without any scratch and with clean leaves, because we all know that the execution will be even lower than in recent years. This is also the moment when we realize that those who, a few months ago, gave their hand to the government now, seeing that the way and the train are running, they are going away and they say « we never had anything to do with this. Now, worry about it and pay for it." But if this budget were to be marked by something, it would be because thousands of men and women of the restoration, hotel and tourism cried out at the doors of this Parliament that we would not give them the exemption of the TSU (the single social rate) nor would we lower the VAT of the restoration. This is what we told them on the day they fought out there, with a long hand, saying: “Do something for us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is because this Prime Minister, who told them five years ago, « help me to give Portugal the dignity he deserves», now turned his back on them, saying « pay the bill, because I have a lot of money to distribute for those who do not want to do anything». This is also the Budget which, once again, will leave the security forces beyond what they deserve. Thousands of men and women, who should be, in the moment of crisis, more than ever rewarded, have now seen that, even in the worst moments, we are not there for them either. The budget that would be the front line, in the words of Mr. Minister of Finance, is the budget that turned back on teachers, nurses, firefighters, transport professionals, these thousands of men and women who have really made the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic in Portugal. What do we give them? A hand full of nothing and vague promises for the second half of this year. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister : This is the budget not to divide to reign, but to distribute to support itself. Desperate and cantonated in the vote of the PAN, the Communist Party and two unregistered Members, the Government knows that it has no way to go on. And it will distribute to those who know or think they will be faithful to him on a call to the polls, which we all know will take place soon. But the Portuguese will not be deceived and, when they have to choose a government, they know well who was responsible for the waste, for not fighting corruption, for not fighting against the mercy and for allowing Portugal to again be a poor relative of the European Union. The Portuguese won't forget what was done in the last year. I am not a seer, but I risk telling myself that this is the last budget led by Antonio Costa. And I also know, it is written in the stars, that very soon the right will return to power in Portugal — the Azores were just the first step — and then we will be able to recover what has already been lost and that we should have been able to recover, which is the dignity of a country that has never had another strategy but has been hand-held to Europe, without having anything more to offer. Now that tourism has fallen, the restoration has fallen, the services have ended and the events have ended, the door is closed, the light is turned off and the right is said to save Portugal. For here we are, we will not miss the call and we will be ready to rule this country, finally, with dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u198	The Greens have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate and vote of the State budget for 2021 takes place at a difficult time in the life of the country and Portuguese. Today's challenges are widespread, but solutions are known to answer them, that the political options of successive governments did not allow them to be realized. The disinvestment to which PS, PSD and CDS condemned the National Health Service for years has made it very clear that difficulties, needs and even their degradation, which is even more relevant to the effort and dedication of their professionals. That is why the ENP has been beaten and will continue to invest more in the SNS, more professionals, by strengthening primary health care, which need to resume normality, and by strengthening beds in intensive care, one of the proposals that the ENP was able to approve for this Budget. Unemployment, precariousness and poverty are realities to which the ENP continues to pay attention. in this country, poverty affects many who have lost their jobs, but also many who work, due to low wages, and still there are political forces in this House that are against the increase in national minimum wage. A situation that requires answers and options that leave no one behind. And so the Greens have defended a direct and immediate way of social support for people and so that they can cope with their commitments, for example, to pay the accounts of water, light and gas, which rise to the pace of the days when they are forced to stay at home. Learning from the mistakes of the past is the premise of a better present. Today, an intervention state is required and determined in the necessary investments. Of course, that does not put the deficit blindness in front of the answers that are fundamental to the development of the country. This crisis forces us to rethink the priorities that have guided our lives, the way we live, produce and consume, and the way we relate to nature and animals. We are invited to re-equalize an economic model based on the unbridled exploitation of natural resources, which powers high health risks and promotes strong environmental impacts, in addition to dramatically deepening social inequalities. It can't be worth everything. We cannot allow the climate crisis to be forgotten and the beautiful promises made in the various spaces for discussion on sustainability. The Greens took as their contribution to the State budget of 2021 the appreciation and preservation of the environment, with concrete proposals, which were approved. We proposed a review of the choice of the location to the international airport in Lisbon, with a serious strategic environmental assessment, to respect natural reserves, species and local biodiversity. We have proposed to analyze and make the contest transparent for the exploration and exploitation of associated lithium and minerals, with a strategic environmental assessment that should include all locations. The adoption of these proposals allows people to be involved and can defend their regions. The Greens also stressed the need to provide the country with greater coverage in terms of public transport, with greater relevance in rail. The National Railway Plan will finally, after the great commitment of the Greens, leave the field of intentions, contributing to equip all district railway capitals, end the overcrowded lines, reopen closed lines over the years, invest in circulating and specialized labour materials, return the train to the populations, return the connection of the territory, fulfill the right to mobility with the safer, more sustainable means of transport and with a more sustainable investment. We cannot also allow the wind to take the promises of a serious response to the preservation, protection and conservation of nature. It is necessary to strengthen the structures responsible for the environment with the real creation of jobs at DGEG ( Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ) at the ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests) at APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) for which the Greens were also insistent. Our natural heritage needs attention, care, investment and not only promises without results. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members, in this debate of the State budget for 2021, it was possible to approve answers to the problems that people face. For the Greens, it was crucial that this budget should not go back to what has been achieved in recent years. But, on the other hand, it was crucial to respond to the needs of a substantial strengthening in fundamental areas, such as public services, particularly in health, education, culture and justice; to ensure a strong stake in our production, with particular emphasis on family agriculture, in which the ENP also left its contribution, and in the channelling of means to ensure the survival of micro and small enterprises. At the end of this debate, although it was possible and desirable to have gone further, we can say that the Government now has more instruments — some of them from the Green proposals — to respond to the problems that the country faces than when the budget proposal was presented in Parliament. Therefore, because it has moved forward, but because it was possible to make further progress for the benefit of the country, the Greens decided by abstention in the global final vote. It is, above all, a vote in defence of people. It is a vote that leaves a great deal of responsibility in the hands of the Government, which, with this Budget, is obliged to respond to the wishes of the people. We'll be here to charge you with that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u200	You have the floor for the NAP, Mr André Silva. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, on the day when the discussion process of the State budget for 2021 comes to an end, it is time to make a balance sheet, having a certainty: this budget comes out better than the one who entered. We have been in this process, as always, with a constructive stance, we have made bridges to include fundamental responses and policies, which were omitted in the initial proposal. Working and negotiating was the way we chose. We have tabled 263 proposals in the most diverse areas, but always with the aim of ensuring a better life for people, to ensure that, in the context of crisis, no one is left behind, to ensure anti-discrimination policies, to achieve measures to combat climate emergency, to move forward in the field of animal protection and welfare and to ensure an effective fight against corruption and to deepen the transparency of the political system. These advances were achieved in this Budget for the quality and merit of the NAP proposals, which were able to approve a total of 50 proposals, some with the vote against the Socialist Party, precisely because the NAP did not resign from working with all to advance its causes. This is a better budget because, in addition to ensuring emergency support for all those who are unprotected, the NAP has managed to ensure more conditions to combat the social crisis, in particular by extending the duration of the CVID-19 Social Sector Support Line measure, which will ensure the necessary financial means for social sector entities to continue to operate on the ground and to support citizens in situations of vulnerability. In parallel, we guarantee more responses to people in homeless situations, either through a specific employability program or through Housing First responses. The shelters for homeless people and victims of domestic violence will also ensure that these people do not have to separate themselves from their pets. This budget protects the rights of citizens in their various components: it protects the rights of the consumer when, on a proposal from the NAP, it puts an end to the added value of calls for support for the client ; it protects the right to work with rights when, on a proposal from the NAP, it finally guarantees the regulation of the profession of Portuguese gestual interpreter ; it protects the right to education, when by the hand of the NAP, it strengthens the guarantor of a secure university programme ; it protects the right to health when, on a proposal from the NAP, it brings a strengthening of community support teams in palliative care, the strengthening of health professionals for INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ), including psychologists for CAPIC ( Center for Psychological Support and Intervention in Crisis) and the strengthening of environmental health technicians in the National Health Service. This is a better budget because thanks to the work of years of the NAP, a strategic environmental assessment was finally achieved to compare the various options for the expansion of the airport of the Lisbon region and that will be the death certificate of the construction of the Montijo airport. But at environmental level, important responses and policies are also highlighted that start a transition path to a more sustainable and less dependent model of fossil fuels. This is the example of the possibility of deducting costs from IRS (tax on income of natural persons), the end of the incorporation of palm oil into fuels, the creation of a carbon rate on air and maritime travel, the end of the exemption from ISP (tax on petroleum and energy products) on the use of diesel in dredgings, the end of the use of microplastics in detergents and cosmetics, the creation of a contribution to single-use plastic packaging, the limitation of tax benefits to hybrid automobiles, or the prohibition of marketing of glycosate herbicides for non-professional uses. But this is also a budget which, by the hand of the NAP, includes important measures to combat pollution in the oceans, such as the creation of a financial incentive programme for the return of fishing networks used to avoid their undue discard or the installation of eco-leasing in all sea ports. After we have managed in recent years to empower the political field of environmentalism, our commitment is now, more than ever, to make the protection of the environment a priority of Parliament and the government. But this is also — and for the NAP it could not stop being — a budget that does not forget the protection and animal welfare. We were able to enter EUR 10 million to allow improvements to official collection centres and zoophyll associations, to ensure the provision of veterinary services to pets of deprived families and to ensure sterilization programmes. 20 veterinary doctors will be hired for the ICNF, which, in good time, will protect the protection of pets and will be allocated €375 000 for the voluntary delivery program of wild animals used in circuses. Finally, we include concrete measures aimed at combating corruption and deepening transparency. On a proposal from the NAP by the end of February, the Transparency Entity will finally have its seat. We will have a transparency portal for the management of European funds, we will have more transparency in the green hydrogen business and in the transfer of public money to foundations and will ensure the public disclosure of the results of municipal PPPs (public-private partnerships). By negotiation of the NAP, in the coming year there will be a strengthening of human resources for the fight against corruption, fraud and economic and financial crime of the Judicial Police and the Attorney-General of the Republic. However, despite the unequivocal advances, this is an insufficient budget in some areas. This continues to be the Budget of the 'tax bills' and of the perverse subsidies to large pollutants and electro-producers. This remains the Budget which, once again, postpones the fiscal relief of the middle class which, year after year, sees its frozen incomes. This budget does not respond to the urgent need to halt support for intensive and agrotoxic agriculture. This is still the Budget which spreads support to the TAP, without environmental compensation. This remains the Budget which postpones the appreciation of health assistant technicians, who have been fundamental in combating the health crisis. This is still the Budget which does not reduce the experimental period of young people seeking first employment and which does not combat precarious employment in young employment. This remains the Budget that pays three times for road PPPs more than what they value. In the face of these inadequacies, the NAP will abstain in the overall final vote of this Budget, stressing that, especially in a context of unpredictable crisis and multiple dimensions, it is important to remind the Socialist Party and the Government that do not have an absolute majority and that dialogue is the only possible way to ensure political stability. We hope that the Socialist Party and the Government will replace the convenience dialogue at times of seizure by a constructive and convergent position, capable of adopting policies and strategies for the country and for future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u202	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u203	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are finishing the budgetary process today, which has developed in an absolutely exceptional context. The fact that we were in the middle of a pandemic crisis and a consequent economic and social crisis led us to expect that we would discuss the essential thing: the immediate response to the crisis and the tools needed to get out of this situation. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. With the vote on the Budget, two assurances and one doubt are evident. The first assurance is that the government will be able to rule for another year, if any — the truth is that it will not want as much as that. The second certainty, whose relationship with the first is clearly evident, is that the CFP will be able to hold its congress next weekend. With the approval of the Government, the CFP will once again challenge the principle of equality in the application of rules and will again disregard all those who are confined at home, prevented from working or enjoying their rest in freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u205	The question remains for the Portuguese. If the government knows it will have an approved budget and the CFP knows it will have a congress, the Portuguese have no idea how Christmas will be going.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u206	He's a challenger!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u207	These conclusions clearly demonstrate what the budgetary procedure was: a process which was turned inside, led by party interests, without due attention to the situation of the country and without answer to the questions of the moment. The PS chose to do a negotiation that would offend local trade if it was classified as « mercenary ». It was a real negotiation, dominated by the partisan! A government without direction and will remained at the mercy of communist anachronism and animal radicalism. The result was a blanket of flaps, capable of ignoring central problems and, at the same time, of going into detail in matters that should never integrate a State budget. But let's take examples. 1440 amendments were tabled, a record reached at a time when the crisis recommended focus and ability to give priority to the most urgent. Parliament has spent on voting the quadrupple of the time it spent discussing policies. It was a terrible sign that was given to the country! In fact, if there were any doubts, yesterday night and this morning they showed that parliamentaryism is at a very difficult time and that it is essential to strengthen Portuguese democracy so that bad examples are not given as they were given during this budgetary process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u209	When the Portuguese longed for answers to such simple questions as « will I continue to have employment at the beginning of next year? "When will I be able to reopen my trade under normal conditions? “What do I do if my children can’t go to school? », Parliament has taken its time to discuss issues such as plastic microspheres in detergents and cosmetics, bamboo toothbrushes, pork bath VAT, seahorse community or takeaway packages from restaurants. The worst thing is that many of these materials have been approved, in some cases with wicked requirements, as was the case with the 30 cent rate for takeaway packages of restaurants. They will ask the Portuguese: what about the country? What about our lives? On the part of the CDS, we have made our contribution to respond, even knowing that this would never be our Budget, aware that the left-wing majority votes more according to the proposer than the merit of the proposals. We were able to adopt proposals to increase unemployment allowance for self-employed and self-employed, to enhance former military careers in public administration, to combat school dropout in higher education or to increase transparency in public procurement. However, we must point out that others have been rejected which would answer several essential questions. I give just a few examples: the green way of health, which would guarantee faster access for all; the pharmacy valley, which would allow the poorer elderly to buy their medicines without having to dispense with other essential goods, such as food; the SOS Homes program, so that they could be hired medical; or the reduction of IRS and IRC (tax on the income of the public), essential for the sustainability of families and the competitiveness of businesses. With these proposals, the CDS has shown that, in the face of the difficulties, realizing the disorientation of the government, the conclusion cannot be that there is no alternative, that there is no other way. Of course there is another way and of course there is an alternative! We said it between 2015 and 2019. When the government and its left-wing partners offered illusions, we warned that a huge opportunity was being lost. It is easy to govern after a time when difficult measures have been taken — in which employment recovery, economic growth and the sustainability of public accounts have been guaranteed — even more so when this reality coincided with a favourable external environment and a substantial reduction in interest rate. But it was with this exceptionally favourable framework that the Socialist Party and the left party chose to increase the tax burden, thus preventing the social and economic progress of Portugal and the Portuguese. Lost the opportunity of the last few years, the fragility is exposed to respond to the current crisis. in a recent study by the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), Portugal is 35. that of 38 countries developed in support of the economy since the beginning of the crisis. Depending on the budget that we will shortly vote, this reality will not be reversed. The government delivered this budget ensuring that the large measure for the economy was not to increase taxes. From then on, it showed an inability to support companies and broke the commitment it had made to defray the IRS. But in the specialty it did worse, not resisting to create a few more taxis. In short, this swindled government has no trace, it simply applies to the economy the old logic of socialism, as Reagan states: to move, to charge; to continue to move, to commit itself to bureaucracy; to stop moving, to subsidize. It seems a few days ago the Prime Minister quoted Churchill. Sounds good to me. Maintaining the source, we easily find a good description of what have been the last few years, what is the current moment and what other experiences have been with socialist governments. It was Churchill who said: « Socialism is like a dream; sooner or later we wake up for reality». Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against this budget. In the CDS we respond to the alternative of the democratic and popular right, because condemnation of socialist inconsequence, communist anachronism and animal radicalism is not inevitable. We respond to the ambitions of the Portuguese people, who have the right to be better governed, and we answer « present» to Portugal, because that will always be our greatest commitment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u210	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u211	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The CFP intervened in the budget debate denouncing the deep inadequacies and limitations of the proposal submitted by the Government over a month ago. As we have stressed from the outset, both the budget proposal and the government's options, which are beyond the budget, do not meet the needs of the country. But we have always said that, in view of the gravity of the national situation, we would not stop the battle until the end in order to find solutions. That is what we have done, with the presentation of hundreds of proposals, whose full approval would allow a broad response to the worsening national situation. from combating the epidemic to workers' rights, from strengthening the SNS to strengthening public services, from defending micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to supporting artists and cultural agents, from public investment to defending national production, the CFP brought to debate and transformed into proposal the fair aspirations and struggles of workers and the Portuguese people. The convergence between PS and PSD in the rejection of dozens of proposals presented by the CFP has resulted in the refusal of essential measures to address all the impacts of the epidemic, whether on the health level or on the economic, social and cultural levels. A convergence which led to measures such as the replacement of conditions in unemployment benefit or the fight against precariousness; the extension to all reforms of the extraordinary increase which has been made for lower pensions; the effective taxation of economic groups, including those who are obtaining scandalous profits with the epidemic, such as insurers; the reduction of labour taxes and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the strengthening of the network of public equipment, such as homes and day care; the recovery of strategic enterprises that have been privatized; the end of PPPs and tolls or the creation of a public road operator. The need and fairness of these proposals will continue to be confirmed by the harsh national reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u212	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u213	Its rejection only confirms the need for the country to free itself from submission to the European Union and to the euro and to face the interests of the great capital. Our persistence and determination not to give up in the country, even knowing the systematic refusal of the PS government, allowed, however, solutions with concrete translation into the lives of workers and the people. This is the way in which payment of wages is guaranteed to all workers, putting an end to the cuts that have been in force, whether with the layoff or with other mechanisms. It is thus with the increase of 10 € from 1 January of all reforms and pensions up to 658 €, or the extension for six months of the unemployment allowance, when the period of its concession ended in 2021 — « customers», a word stated here by a right-wing Member! The application of the supplement of insanity and penosity has been confirmed, covering also the workers of the business public sector and the extension of the extraordinary supplement of risk to workers of the other essential services sectors, including security forces, firefighters and others, here treated and offended as 'customers' on the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u214	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u215	A significant set of SNS reinforcement measures was ensured, in particular for the hiring of hundreds of doctors, nurses and other professionals in need, such as investments in infrastructure, equipment, additional diagnostic means, for the recovery of late consultations in primary health care and the hiring of family physicians, for the strengthening of beds in intensive care. Measures that have long been required by the SNS and which, once implemented, can respond to the epidemic, but also recover delays and refuse the sack that fattens private health groups. The suspension of payment on behalf of the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that requested it and the end of discrimination on access to public support made available under the epidemic was ensured. Support for the treasury of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises with suspended activity or in business crisis has been ensured so that they can pay up to three minimum wages per worker. A programme to support artistic and cultural work was set up, designed to create conditions for the resumption of these activities, together with the strengthening of the resources to support the arts. The hiring of 5000 assistants and technicians for schools and 2500 professionals for security forces and services, to be contracted in 2021 — « customers», he said! As you can see, it was not the PCP proposals that were missing, which was the PS's political will to receive them throughout its scope. This is an abstention that does not confuse or open the door to action of those who everything bet on the degradation of the situation to resume projects to aggravate exploitation and impoverishment, with old or new protagonists, and who today will have to see their plans frustrated. And don't come now with pretexts and last-minute disturbances! What has been achieved in this Budget by the intervention of the CFP allows a more effective response to relevant problems and opens up the possibility for others to resolve themselves. Knowing that it is as important or more important than approving proposals in this House, it is the government's political will to implement them, we reaffirm that it is the response to the country's problems and not the submission to the deficit which must determine the implementation of this budget. We insist that the overall response to the serious economic and social situation requires measures that are not exhausted in the Budget. It is therefore necessary to ensure the increase in national minimum wage and the general increase in all salaries, including those of the Public Administration, and to ensure, as the Government has admitted, the change of labour law in relation to its burdensome standards. As life has shown, the PCP counts, and counts well, either to prevent setbacks, either to find solutions and respond to the country's problems. And it also counts to record as a requirement of today the need for another policy, an alternative policy, a patriotic and left-wing policy that frees the Country from the bindings and conditionings that mark the present and adjust its future. Here we will be, with the struggle of the workers, as always, to stop this fight! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u216	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u217	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time we vote on the State budget for 2021 it is already out of date. This is perhaps the biggest problem in the Government's proposal and in our debate. This budget belongs to another time, a time when there was no second pandemic wave, a time when it was possible to believe that minimum aid would endure employment, that acting on the margins would arrive so that poverty would not explode, that the tireless dedication of the professionals of the National Health Service would suffice to overcome all weaknesses. There have been nine months under pandemic and with total or partial stopping of the various sectors of the economy, with unemployment to accelerate — more than 36 % only between August and September — with more than 80 000 active cases of COVID, of which more than 500 in intensive care, and with new delays in the planned activity of the National Health Service. Mr Prime Minister, the policy of the margins or the minimums no longer convinces anyone. Portugal is one of the European countries most affected by the pandemic crisis, a country very dependent on tourism, marked by poverty and precariousness, with large aged territories and a small number of intensive care beds per million inhabitants. Tragically, it is also one of the least spent countries — and, with this Budget, one of the least spent — as a percentage of GDP (gross domestic product) to respond to the crisis. Well the Government and the Socialist Party can cry out for the instability of these days and for the difficulty of the crisis or constantly repeat that the Block has deserted the left or solutions to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u218	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u219	Indeed, the increasing political instability and difficulty of these days are the result of the desertion of the Government and the Socialist Party in a consistent response to the crisis and capable solutions. A budget which, as the Prime Minister says, is of continuity does not respond to these exceptional times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u221	A year ago, the Government refused a legislative agreement with the Left Block and began to try to rule as if it had an absolute majority. After that, he made some agreements that broke majestically: he did not carry out contracts in health, nor support to informal caregivers, nor even extraordinary support to informal workers. He did not comply with the left and did not comply with the country, which is no longer strange news reports with little or no consequences. But the biggest factor of instability was not this refusal of a left-wing agreement and not even disrespect for commitments. It was even the improvisation and impreparation in response to the second wave of the pandemic. They did not lack the government nor power nor money, with the state of emergency and the Supplementary Budget. The Block didn't miss the government and don't regret it. But the government is missing. It would not have been difficult to agree on this State budget when everything could be delayed, but it could not fail to health. when failing in health, the government fails in the country. We arrived at the end of October with fewer than 1029 doctors in the SNS than we had before the pandemic began in January, according to official numbers. in this refusal of reality is that there are no priorities, neither management, nor ideas, nor care. The homes continue to be foreseeable outbreaks of the disease. Seasonal influenza vaccination has become chaotic. No one knows what vaccination against COVID will really be like. What is missing is government. A health agreement—but an agreement to value and no longer an announcement—could have saved this Budget. But the government has preferred its assurance that the minimum possible is as much as it wants to give. Therefore, Prime Minister, what counts are not the expertise of the debate in the specialty. This is as fleeting as the summer of St Martin, which has already passed. What counts is this: what will be the year of 2021 for our people? That is where this Budget fails: it wants to be little, when much effort was needed for employment; it disregards the fragility of the SNS, when this should be the pillar of our trust; it ignores structural investment. This budget carries a year of insecurity and instability, but Portugal deserved and needed the guarantee of security and stability. Nothing is more dangerous than looking distantly at those who see themselves sinking with the crisis, delaying what is urgent, managing the agenda rather than responding to the country. Nothing is more dangerous than explaining that, under the pandemic, everything is unstable and unpredictable and then giving the unconditional guarantee of the State to the ruinous businesses that the bank wants to do. It was necessary for Parliament — despite the PS and some of them — to approve the basic measure: first the account is known and only then paid. No contract may require otherwise, not even that of the New Bank. The Abutre Lone Star fund, to which this government handed over the bank, charges taxpayers the damages it is imposing, and this has to be investigated. There was a time when the Prime Minister guaranteed that the sale would not have « direct or indirect impact on public accounts or new charges on taxpayers ». This time was in March 2017, and there are already about EUR 3 billion over the 4, 9 billion already paid in the PSD / CDS government. What we did not know, however, and now we already know is how Lone Star's looting takes place, with the allocation of damages to the Resolution Fund. One of the most visible tricks is the business of selling portfolios of assets in balances, especially real estate and companies: portfolio Viriato, Nata 1, Sertorius, Nata 2, Albatros, GNB Life, BES Vénétie. Together, these operations have already involved losses of about one billion, and we know what it was like: almost all supported by the Resolution Fund and guaranteed by budget transfers. And that's because we know how we tried to talk to the government about solutions for the biggest financial scandal of our time. Where we wanted dialogue, we found refusals. But Parliament has just decided how it should decide. The government wanted to keep what it always did: the PS does not discuss the financial system with the left. But he has deceived himself and is unwise. at the end of EUR 8 billion delivered to a bank, it was time to stop these millionaire games and defend Portugal. I'm glad we did! Mr Prime Minister, we have made some progress in the discussion of the Budget, in the field of expertise, especially in social protection, where there will be a little greater coverage than initially registered by the Government. Good! But the central problems remain: there are those who need support and are excluded from it in 2021, even if they had access to it in 2020. The responsibility was to include who was excluded this year and not to leave out more people next year. Health announcements have increased, but rules have not changed to ensure that they are implemented. Public support does not mean employment and can even finance the continuation of easy and cheap layoffs. We note that the debate on this budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it wasn't between the right and the left. The right, moreover, did not bring any alternative proposal to respond to the crisis, only a single measure, no vision or responsibility. The debate has been and is between the government's minimum response and the demand of the left. That was the debate you have discussed in this budget, and that is what you will continue to say. The right was thrown out of the game. I really want to thank Dr. Rui Rio. In recent years, no one has done so much in as little time by strengthening the left position as Dr. Rui Rio. when choosing an alliance with the extreme-right xenophobic, the PSD was isolated, but also showed the PS that, failed the ambition of the absolute majority, could rule only if seeking agreement with the left. And, on this way to the left, without right-wing, the PS will have to negotiate what he has so far thought he could refuse: a SNS with sufficient capacity and professional careers exclusively, social protection based on employment and the fight against poverty, the end of the labour laws of the troika. It is not yet in this budget that we have achieved it. I could and should have been right now. No one understands the Government's claim to accept the exclusivity of health professionals, provided that they do not apply or suspend the expiry of employment contracts, provided that the rule is restored soon. Mr. Prime Minister, it wasn't now, but it will be. With the « arrival » of the PSD, the PS will always have to make an essential choice: either look for the right—but that right no longer exists—or make a contract for social policies that make a majority that protects Portugal. Portugal needs to ensure the safety of its social policies and public health, it needs strict taxation and respect for the work that does all things. That's what we're gonna get. This is the commitment of the Left Block, and we are tireless. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u222	Mrs Isura Morais of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u223	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and others Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have reached the end of the State budget procedure for 2021 and we must see that the result is, in everything, similar to that of previous years, which is to be regretted. This is essentially a budget whose aim is to enable the Government to arrive at the next day. It is therefore a budget, like the previous ones, captured by the extreme left, which was unexpectedly invested in a power that the voters, in fact, never gave it. This is the price that the Socialist Party pays for the dependencies it has chosen to compensate for its fragility. If, in the dependency chapter, something has happened again, in this budget, the novelty — foreseeable, of course — was the ruin of a majority of support, which announces the end of its validity period. in this budget, the Government has been more and more alone, with an increasingly low support base and therefore more dependent on those who still remain, i.e. the Communist Party, to which the NAP and non-registered Members have joined. It's the budget of the management thigh. The result, more unbalanced than in the past, eloquently expresses this erosion of the political base of support. The capital difference, compared to previous budgets, is in context. And the context in which we live is of deep economic and social depression and extreme uncertainty about the future, with the country still far from seeing the end of the health crisis that was at the root of all this. We have no doubt that poverty continues to spread and that the dramatic economic and social context we know would require consistent answers. But this is not the Budget that provides them, extending the navigation in sight and the unforgivable neglect of the future which, in previous years, was possible to spread because there was growth and employment. Not now! We're not dramatizing the past. The Socialist Government, in the four years preceding the crisis, has achieved the unbelievable fact that in all of them, without exception, and in an environment of growth, a level of public investment lower than that which in 2015 was possible to achieve when the country came from an unprecedented process of fiscal consolidation. Did the government invest less because it chose to lower the tax burden, in order to continuously increase the income of families and the financial health of businesses? No, the tax burden has increased! This means that the value of taxes and contributions paid by families and businesses has increased more than their income. The state and services it provides to citizens were more expensive. And they were more expensive because the provision of services increased and their quality improved? Not either! But would it be possible to improve these services when investment in equipment and infrastructure remained at the lowest levels in our history? Don't! Obviously, there are no miracles. The government had to meet the numerous customers it manages to keep in power, it had to serve the numerous requirements of the left anti-system, to which it was mortgaged its autonomy. The state of the National Health Service with which we were surprised by this crisis was the result of choices that the government insists on prolonging in the Budget. There is no need to play the role of desperate complaints that occupy national news daily. The state of default to which we refer extends to public transport, schools, the administration of social security, justice, security, defence, all sectors, without exception, where it is expected that the State will not be forgiven that the State, by choice of the government, will not even retain what it found when it arrived. The budget that came to this House was bad, but the worst thing that can happen to a bad budget is to make it even worse. The government and the CFP have achieved this feat. The brand of a Communist Party with increased negotiating power, but without any government responsibilities and therefore willing to ask for everything in return for its support, is more present than ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u224	That's the bone crossed in the goose!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u225	What we have is a budget that, worse than being on the backs of companies, is punitive for these same companies. [[PSD applause.]] At a time when it would be of greatest importance to support them, since their economic and financial health depends on the resumption and preservation of jobs, what does the government do? It causes IRC revenue to increase, from one year to the next, no less than 28, 5 %. Why are companies going to make a fabulous profit growth? Of course not! Because the government makes them pay all the time, even in the year of crisis, the postponement of the previous year's tax. The tax burden of companies will dramatically increase from one year to the next, when they have not even had time to breathe from the shock to which they were subjected, the more they got up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u226	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u227	It is so scandalous that this budget is not taken care of by the companies that the government has been obliged to list in the report accompanying the Budget, as a measure of support for companies, a non-action in the event of non-increasing taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u228	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u229	It is even the first measure presented as supporting the productive sector! And the claim that the government is supporting non-increase companies repeats several times as language that would be comical, if not serious. It is not enough not to increase taxes, which, strictly speaking, is not true, since the revenue from IRC is growing at the rate I have already mentioned. The government does not simply ignore companies. It makes life even more difficult for them, increasing, for example, the minimum wage, as expected. [[PS protests.]] Companies are asked to strive to keep jobs. Companies retain those who can. The fact that productivity has fallen sharply by 2020 is the direct reflection that it has reduced employment much less than has decreased activity. And for a particularly difficult time to become even more difficult, they are administratively increased wage costs. It is clear that the result will, unfortunately, be a destruction of jobs among the most vulnerable, which makes the Communist Party totally indifferent, since what concerns you is the wages of those who are and those who are left. As for the government, access. It's the price of your survival. And in order to complement communist logic, it was still necessary to prevent companies with more than 250 workers and more than 50 million euros of invoicing to fire one worker, as a condition of access to any benefits still existing, such as moratoriums, loans or guarantees. They are asked to be restructured, to look for new markets and to try new products, to change their lives to survive and thus preserve jobs, but see for themselves any speed of optimization. A social state capable of protecting the income of families and ensuring rationality to the burdens is something that a government will never be able to conceive of. The budget we have to vote on is thus an budget with hundreds of millions of euros of expenditure at more than it began, with thousands of public officials more than the expected one and a larger and more dependent public sector of government control than was announced, which means more exposed and captured by the union influence and control of the Communist Party. Let's be clear. To discuss the legitimacy of each budgetary measure alone is always to enter territory which leaves the essential. Everyone always has—and, if he does not, he gets — good reasons to want what he asks for, and even more. Responsibility is in the process of achieving objectives, because resources are always limited. Is the Government able to present to this House an estimate of the various costs, both in the short and long term, that the concessions to the Communist Party and the other circumstantial allies have dragged? It would be a responsible attitude, such as that the PSD once again had throughout this process, always providing for a counterpart in its proposals with greater budgetary impact, which would not further degrade our aggravated budget deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u231	Only a democratic social proposal of significant financial impact did not in itself contain a counterpart, which was the one that required the allocation of a family doctor to all Portuguese. But this is an old promise from Mr. Prime Minister, so it is up to you to execute it in the way you understand that it is possible. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the PSD voted against this Budget in general, then today, in the global final vote, our vote is against and even more convincing. If, in its initial version, the budget proposal only looked at the present and forgot tomorrow, the State Budget for 2021, in its final version, still further compromises our collective future. The version that we will shortly vote is a defeat of the PS and a clear victory of the PCP, which managed to put the Government on his knees by imposing everything he wanted. From the conclusion of its congress, at the end of the emergency week, to the total conditioning of the State budget, going through more political commitments beyond the document we are going to vote today, all the Communist Party imposes and all the Government accepts, within the framework of the political dependence on which the Prime Minister's strategy has finally put it. Mr. President, Portugal is not doing well. Portugal faces enormous difficulties to overcome. The budget we are going to vote here does not diminish these difficulties. Unfortunately, the budget we are going to vote here is making it even more difficult for all of us to face the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u232	Mr Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We find ourselves at the final stage of the discussion of this State budget and marathons to approve it in the specialty, but we present it here one month after being voted in general, in a month in which the pandemic has worsened, in which the state of emergency was decreed again, and in which hope in a vaccine wins body. It is therefore at this moment that we have some hope, with the success that the first vaccines appear to demonstrate, that it is more important than ever to continue fighting to mitigate the economic and social effects of this crisis. And this is what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has been committed to! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, listening to the discussions on the subject, hearing some speeches on the conclusion of this debate, I do not know which country you are in. Members on the right are, but it would be good to be aware again that we are in a global public health emergency, which calls on all countries to act, doing so with what is lacking in the PSD: responsibility, determination and prudence. There is no way to escape the harshness of the facts: this is the State budget for a difficult year, in which the effects of the pandemic, both at the level of public health and in the economic and social dimensions will be further felt. And this budget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it does not respond at least—no, Mrs Catarina Martins—response with the commitment of the Government, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Green Party, the NAP, of the Members not registered to strengthen all the social areas of this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in difficult times that one sees who lowers his arms and who goes to fight. It is in difficult times that we must be able to make the right choices and that we must first concentrate on what is most urgent and then on what is most necessary. We assume our responsibilities before the Portuguese and we have a duty not to lose ourselves in discussions we may have tomorrow. For this reason we have an obligation not to question the way of structural recovery of the country we have travelled since November 2015. Let me remind you that it is now precisely five years ago that the Government led by the Socialist Party, with parliamentary support on the left, has taken up functions and changed the lives of the Portuguese for the better, for much better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We made a path with very positive results until March, but whose economic and social indicators in recent months allow us to say that we were right in the choices we made five years ago and that, therefore, it was possible to mitigate the economic and social effects that we are being able to mitigate in these harsh months of pandemic. In difficult times, we must be able to distinguish, more than ever, the essential of the accessory. And that's what this Budget does. This was the path that the PS chose in the process of discussion in the specialty and the Parliamentary Group of the PS was constructive and was open to improvements. So, get out of here a strengthened and better budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the 2021 Budget continues to be a prudent, responsible budget, in times of uncertainty, without retreat and with strengthening the social state and the economy. We have come to a budget serving the country in one of the most difficult years. The times, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not for the 'achisms' of those in the front line and it is called on every day to take action, sometimes to correct measures, in a context of enormous uncertainty. Every day, in this vertigo of the last few months, the Government is called upon to take measures to ensure protection in health, income and employment, social protection and support for businesses to secure our economy and ensure the conditions for their recovery. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the social sensitivity of this budget—I have had the opportunity to say—of course, it is far from the right of Parliament to set out solutions. But in political terms, the approval of this State budget is a defeat of the right, which showed its total irresponsibility, as we saw yesterday and again today, when, in 25. the time, at night, the PSD, without telling the Portuguese, approves a proposal from the Left Block that puts not only the financial system at risk, but also the international credibility of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD takes the risk of Portugal before the country to be considered a country that does not meet contracts, with devastating and unpredictable consequences for all, with irreversible damage to the reputation of Portugal, a reputation which has remained to conquer and win over the past five years. We know well how the PSD has recently left the financial system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u234	That is why it is a matter to which it does not give great importance. The PSD approved the BES Resolution ( Banco Espírito Santo ) by e-mail, left Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) in a state of collapse and also the General Deposit Box. This is the way we have refused, that of financial instability, that the PSD is again putting on the table, at the risk of adding a financial crisis to the crisis we are already experiencing. For the first time, the PSD also breaks European commitments, with unpredictable consequences. The PSD even prefers newspapers and chaos to comply with contracts and commitments, in the name of the destruction of the country. Since 2016, we have returned credibility to public finances and the financial system, but it seems that there are those who are unable to comply. We know that Dr. Rui Rio's leadership makes the PSD say everything and its opposite. Mr Rui Rio recently faced the question: "If money was transferred to the New Bank in the Budget, would you accept it? And the honourable Member was peremptory: "No, I do not accept it! » It is said by you, these are your words. So what you did here tonight was a walk—unnamed! — irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] one day, Dr. Rui Rio considers that the state contracts are to be fulfilled; the other day, he breaks the contracts. one day, she swears allegiance to Europe ; the other day, she approves decisions that break these commitments. The atomic bomb he launched can serve only one purpose: his desire to create political instability, forgetting that, with this, those who suffer and those who pay are the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right is today, in Portugal, an erratic summary of the Liberals, who advocate the dismantling of the State, and of the populists, who make the exploitation of fear their way of participating in political life, hoping that, from the exploitation of discontent, their strength will be rooted. What, so far, were fringes are now anchored in the erratic behaviour of a PSD that hesitates between its democratic social matrix and the defense of a minimal state, a PSD that accuses the government, through this Budget, of giving everything to everyone and that, at the same time, is willing to increase expenditure in an uncontrolled manner, as well as it has been seen in the votes in the specialty. I repeat again: the vote this morning on 25. the time, breaks the commitments made by the Portuguese State internationally and this causes a very serious reputation damage to Portugal. The vote you made this morning has just declared null and void the contracts and commitments made with Brussels, with the European Central Bank and with the buyers of the New Bank. For Dr. Rui Rio, deciding is a joke to the taste of newspaper titles. But we are not in playtime and the Portuguese people do not deserve such disrespect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important to remember that this irresponsibility is coupled with the fact that the PSD, recently by Dr. Rui Rio's hand, had joined the extreme populist right, which today has a new target: stigmatization of the poor, the most vulnerable, as if the poor were poor by choice, as if the poor were poor because they wanted to. The miraculous solutions that exploit fear and distress are, in appearance, easy, but false. Don't solve any problems. So, more than ever, the left needs not to be deceived on the way and on the company you choose. Therefore, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Left Block does not count for the solution, but for the small confusion. It was the Left Block that was absent in this debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] He was absent in this debate, deserted in the answers that the Budget has, voted against the full dedication of health professionals, who had so claimed, abstained in the calendar of health professionals, ignored that there was a debate and could have contributed to it. But there's one question left. He was out of the debate and at 25. the time, negotiate the vote with the PSD, which means, Mrs Member, that if it is consistent, you will vote in favour of this budget, because you have approved the only proposal that the Left Block wanted! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is not a minimum emergency budget. This is a good budget, which does not go back one millimeter in relation to the way of the last five years, but which advances in the response to the demand of the pandemic moment. This Budget responds to the pandemic with the strengthening of the National Health Service, a strengthening of human and financial resources, so that the SNS will continue to respond effectively to the consequences of this pandemic and also to all other diseases. This budget reinforces the National Programme for Mental Health — and, I would say, what it needs! — and access to primary health care, increasing the number of beds of intensive care. It is a Budget that responds to the protection of family incomes, particularly the most vulnerable layers of the population. Let me highlight the significant reinforcement, in the field of expertise, of the new social benefit. Yes, Mrs. Catarina Martins, we've moved on! It is not 100 000 beneficiaries, it is 250 000 beneficiaries of a new social benefit, and you have an obligation to vote in favour! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that responds to the preservation of the productive fabric, an essential condition for us to be able to recover more quickly from the historical breakdown of GDP that we will have in 2020, and responds to businesses and workers with the Layoff at 100 %, so that no one will be penalized, and with an increase in the treasury of enterprises of 750 million euros. It's a budget that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, responding to the present, have eyes on the construction of the future. It is a budget that prepares the country, with the strengthening of public services, with the commitment to culture, with the response to climate challenges, with the response to the younger and their emancipation, with the strengthening of the social state, with the ambition to build a more progressive, supportive and fair Portugal, with the greatest increase in public investment since recent years. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a good budget. And the Block of the Left repeats the mistake of its vote, in general, of this Budget: it votes against its own proposals and wants to open the way for Portugal to return to austerity, this time with the right arm given with the extreme populist right. That we can't accept! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislature is in the middle and I want to believe that we will return, without scenes, states of soul or distress, to converge essentially. Yes, sir. Members, measure the measure, step by step, the PS is open, as always, to dialogue and we will do everything so that the separation between the Block and the progressive forces does not repeat. We will all certainly be up to this responsibility to bring the legislature to the end, because that was the commitment we all made to the Portuguese, as they asked us to do. Therefore, allow me to healthize the effort and responsibility of the CFP, the ENP, the NAP and the non-registered Members to converge in this State budget. In particular, I would like to welcome the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, whose work of building, making commitments and improving the budget has made a decisive contribution to providing the country with the urgent answers we need. The approval of the State budget for 2021 means providing the country with an essential instrument to respond to the dramatic situation we live in. Without him, the lives of the Portuguese would certainly be even more difficult. The choice of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, and it was clear: we are next to the Portuguese, working hard with the Government to overcome this crisis. This is the budget that best protects Portuguese. We don't run away from the demands of the moment. We vote for the recovery of the economy, for the protection of income and employment, for the social state, for the National Health Service, for the public school. We are more determined than ever to meet the challenges facing Portugal. « Don't leave anyone behind» is not a slogan for the Socialist Party. ‘Do not leave anyone behind’ is a continuous action, which this Budget also guarantees. Mrs. Members on the right, with more responsibility and calmer, we need to look at the country. We're in a difficult time. This is no time, Mr Rui Rio, for such a joke and so little seriousness in this debate. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u235	It's the government's turn. I take advantage of doing what I have not done a little while ago, which is to welcome the presence of the Prime Minister and of the various Ministers and Secretaries of State. I give the floor to the Minister of State and Finance, John Leon, who will close this debate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The emergence of COVID-19 has launched the world in an unprecedented public health crisis and in an unprecedented economic and social crisis. After a growth of 2, 2 % in 2019, the Portuguese economy is expected to contract this year 8, 5 %, a reduction in economic activity never seen and similar to that expected in the European Union. The initial budget proposal that we have tabled proposes to respond to the major challenges facing Portugal: fighting the pandemic and strengthening health; recovering the economy; protecting employment; and protecting Portuguese income. The first major priority is to combat the pandemic and to strengthen the National Health Service. The State budget, in the initial proposal, saw a huge increase in the SNS budget over EUR 1200 million, more than 10 %. For 2021, a very substantial increase in the number of professionals over 4200 for SNS is expected, and over 260 workers for INEM. In the discussion in the field of specialty, the additional strengthening of the SNS was one of the central concerns. It was therefore approved further: the strengthening of intensive care units with more than 400 beds and 850 professionals; the strengthening of public health units with more than 440 professionals; the very high increase of investment in the National Health Service, with the strengthening of EUR 150 million for primary health care, equipment and facilities; the strengthening of EUR 50 million for heavy investment in hospitals; and the strengthening of works in several hospitals in Portugal. If health was the high priority of the initial proposal, even more priority became after the discussion in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second major priority of this budget is the recovery of the Portuguese economy. on the tax side, three main measures are envisaged which contribute to the dynamisation of domestic demand and which in 2021 place more EUR 550 million in the economy and in the pockets of Portuguese: the reduction of retentions in the source of IRS by EUR 200 million and the reduction of electricity VAT and VATucher, which contribute more than EUR 350 million in the pockets of Portuguese. At the fiscal level, for companies, fiscal stability is ensured, unlike the huge increase in PSD taxes in the previous crisis, an extraordinary investment tax credit is established and now, in the specialty, support for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) with the approval of suspension of payments on account and with a treasury fund for small businesses has been strengthened. At this difficult time, it is essential to ensure the capacity of companies to finance themselves. in this context, the extension of credit moratoriums is also foreseen by September 2021 and the promotion of credit lines for companies, with guarantees from the State up to EUR 6 billion. Public investment is another fundamental tool for the recovery of the economy at this stage. The State budget provided for a strong increase in public investment, which has now become more than 23 %, representing more than EUR 1000 million compared to 2020. As to: the investment in equipment and works of the SNS, which was significantly reinforced in the discussion on the specialty ; investments in transport infrastructures, in the railway area, in the expansion of the meters of Lisbon, Porto and Mondego ; a very large set of small intensive works at work, spread through Portuguese territory; and the strong commitment to investment in housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, protection and job creation are other major priorities of the 2021 budget, through a wide range of measures to boost economic activity ; direct measures to support employment and maintain the productive capacity of companies; support for progressive recovery, now with the 100 % guarantee of support for closed enterprises and workers; active employment policies such as the ATIvar.PT programme ; the APOIAR programme, which introduces more than EUR 1500 million in support of enterprises, of which 900 million are lost. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We expect by 2021, as a result of the recovery of the economy, to reduce the unemployment rate again this year from 8, 7 % to 8, 2 %, next year. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the protection of family income is another of the priorities of this Budget. In addition to the measures we have referred to, the reduction of VAT and IRS, a set of measures to improve income is also envisaged, in particular the most vulnerable Portuguese and with lower incomes. This means: an extraordinary increase in pensions of 10 € for all pensioners who receive up to 1, 5 IAS(indicating social support), which covers 2 million pensioners; IRS is reduced by increasing the minimum of existence; and a significant increase in the minimum wage is expected. In the context of this global crisis, it is essential to strengthen social protection, particularly for those who have lost employment and income during the pandemic crisis. To this end, the Budget for 2021 : creates an extraordinary social benefit with the value of the poverty threshold of €501, addressed to those who, at this difficult time, lost access to unemployment benefit;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the unemployment allowance is extended for another 6 months; and the minimum unemployment allowance is increased from €438 to €504 for full-time workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate in the specialty was very long and intense. There were a record number of amendments — there were more than 1500 proposals. If many of these proposals were important to improve the budget, it is also true that the way in which the budgetary procedure is conducted leads to an endless auction of proposals for increased expenditure and reduction of revenue, which could call into question the coherence and balance of the budget. I would like to highlight two proposals, one on the reduction of tolls and in particular on SCUT roads ( without cost to the user). A few years ago, a well-known Portuguese politician said: "It was necessary to put the user to pay or, then, to increase taxes. » and « Whoever passes on the paid roads. Do not keep on seeking. ” Do you know who these statements were? Dr. Rui Rio, the current PSD leader! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another one of the same PSD reels that, now in the opposition, has proposed exactly the opposite: the reduction of the tolls without counting. The PSD must already be preparing Dr. Rio's plan to increase taxes by EUR 1500 million! The PSD said, in relation to the initial proposal of the Budget, that it gave « what it has and what it does not have », that it gave « everything at the same time» and that the leader of the PSD would be serious and responsible for approval in the specialty. What, then, was the PSD's contribution to this Budget? The PSD approved, through a negative majority, about 50 proposals that exacerbate expenditure and public accounts. It is a stain on the credibility and seriousness of the PSD. The PSD thus lost legitimacy before the Portuguese, to consider this irresponsible budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second major intervention by the PSD, in this Budget, was to approve the ban on transfer to the New Bank. by prohibiting today the transfer to the New Bank, the PSD revealed an impressive lack of responsibility. The PSD wants to force the State to enter into non-compliance with a contract which it has signed and to enter into non-compliance with the international commitments it has made before the European Commission and the European Central Bank. How can the PSD want to raise doubts about the country's international reliability and credibility? How can the PSD want to challenge the stability of the financial system? It would be to play with fire in relation to a bank that has more than 1 million Portuguese as depositors! We'll do everything we can to make no one burn in this process! The PSD, in its speech today, unlike the Left Block, did not make a single reference to its main intervention in this debate. He seems ashamed of what he just approved! [[PSD applause.]] The approved proposal violates the Budget Framework Act, which obliges the State to budget the commitments it has made. The State will honor, as always, its commitments and, in that, we are in a calm conscience! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has, for its part, been facing the global crisis with determination and security, protecting employment, businesses and the income of Portuguese. We will continue to act, as always, with a sense of responsibility. Yesterday, the interest rates of Portuguese public debt, at 10 years, reached a new historical minimum of 0 %,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a lower rate of interest in the Republic than in Spain and Italy. This is an excellent indicator of the credibility that Portugal has achieved in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the current context, where Portugal and other countries have a very high level of public debt, it is absolutely crucial for the country to maintain low interest rates, because only in this way the cost of debt service will not be a heavy burden that overburdens the lives of the Portuguese and prevents the country from growing. We all have a moral duty, before the Portuguese, not to put this into question, not to try irresponsible toys and tactics, not to throw away everything we can lose, through thoughtless behaviors. The interest and stability of Portuguese life must be above all. in this context of uncertainty and high level of indebtedness, credibility and responsibility are fundamental. This responsibility necessarily requires a balance between measures of a permanent nature and measures of a temporary nature. in this budget, we highlight important measures of permanent character, such as: the very strong strengthening of professionals in SNS and schools, among other public services; measures to improve incomes, with particular emphasis on lower incomes; fiscal measures, such as the reduction of electricity VAT and the reduction of IRS through minimum existence; the extraordinary increase in pensions; the increase in the minimum limit of unemployment benefit; the increase in national minimum wage. But there are also extraordinary measures to respond to the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. Responsibility in this context requires ambitious measures to recover the economy and to protect the income and employment of Portuguese, but at the same time also requires that part of these measures be temporary, not to jeopardise the medium-term financial sustainability of public accounts and thus the financing of the Republic. Only in this way will we be able to protect Portuguese income. in this budget, we highlight the following measures of a temporary nature or financed by European funds: employment support measures, such as progressive recovery; measures to support firms in difficulty; extraordinary extension of unemployment benefit and new social benefits; extraordinary risk subsidies for professionals of the National Health Service and other essential services; the ‘VATucher’; the reduction of retention at source in the IRS; and the strengthening of public investment financed by European funds. These are massive and extraordinary measures, which are fundamental to regain the economy, employment and to protect income, but, in part, they are of a temporary nature, or are financed by European funds, do not call into question the medium-term sustainability of public finances. The temporary nature of the measures ensures that, once the crisis has passed, we have once again sound and balanced public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is critical to ensure that we continue to have access to the financing of our high public debt, with historically low interest rates. It is essential that this high public debt is not a permanent burden on the lives of Portuguese and that it does not lead to very high interest costs that prevented the country from continuing to invest in SNS, in education and in improving Portuguese income. We will continue to act with a sense of responsibility, we will not enter into irresponsible games. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot be afraid of facing difficult times. In the face of the greatest global economic crisis of our generations, which dramatically affects the lives of the Portuguese, we do not give up, we will not turn our backs to the country, we said "present", we built the courageous solutions that the country needs to face the present moment. It has been precisely five years today that many of us took possession, at a time that is also difficult, with a much higher unemployment, much higher than the current one, and with unbalanced accounts, at a time when few believed in the country. As at that time, we are determined to re-establish the economy and improve the lives of the Portuguese people who had so much success in the previous crisis. We've shown that we've been able to do it! This is a good budget and the budget that the country needs, which will help the country face the pandemic, recover the economy, protect Portuguese income and employment. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to proceed immediately to the vote. We therefore begin by voting, in the overall final vote, on the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023. [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, votes against the PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Therefore, this final text on the bill approving the Big Options Act for 2021 - 2023 was approved. [[PS applause, stand up.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021, with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] The proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2021 was adopted. [[PS applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have other votes to make. Let's start with the Vote Project No. 398 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and PAN, non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, IL and PEV ) — Despite the death of Luís Kalidás Barreto. I report that they are present in the family gallery of Luís Kalidas Barreto, whom I greet. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u238	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last October 30, 2020, at 88 years of age, Luís Maria Kalidás da Costa Barreto. Son of an intellectual republican of joyful origin, Luís Kalidas Barreto was born in Montemor-o-Novo, on October 16, 1932, Évora district, and was an indisputable reference to the struggle for the causes and rights of workers. He took part in opposition initiatives to the dictatorship of António de Oliveira Salazar and Marcelo Caetano, notably as a member of the commission to support the candidacy of General Humberto Delgado to the Presidency of the Republic in 1958, and as organizer of the Democratic Opposition in Castanheira de Pera, in the 1969 elections, where he had been rooted in the meantime. After actively participating in the creation of the National Interunion, later the General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ( CGTP ), in 1970, Kalidás Barreto led the Center's Textiles Union, he was the National Director of the CGTP and Technical Adviser for Portuguese Missions to the International Labour Organization ( ILO ). In 1975, in the first free elections following 25 April, he was elected to the Constituent Assembly on the lists of the Socialist Party. In 2004, within the framework of the commemorations of 30. the anniversary of 25 April, was thanked by the President of the Republic Jorge Sampaio with the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Freedom. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the death of Luís Kalidás Barreto, addressing the family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will move on to the Vote Project No. 399 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN and CH, by non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues and by the IL ) — Despite the death of Artur do Cruzeiro Seixas. I ask Secretary Helga Correia to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u240	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « It passed away last November 8, 2020, the week to complete 100 years, Artur do Cruzeiro Seixas, Dean of Portuguese artists and one of the last surrealists, movement that integrated with Mário de Cesariny, Carlos Calvet or Marcelino Vespeira, and who was faithful, in art and in life, to the last of his days. Born in Amadora, on December 3, 1920, Artur Manuel Rodrigues do Cruzeiro Seixas attended the School of Decorative Arts António Arroio, between 1935 and 1941, there beginning the transposition of the lessons of French surrealism — the aesthetic and ideological liberation— soon integrating the Surrealist Group of Lisbon, that it would have to depart later, to found The Surrealists, with Cesariny, cultivating surrealism as praxis and not as mere formalistic exercise, and participating in the 1. the Exposition of Surrealists, in 1949, which helped revolutionize our artistic panorama. In 1951, at the service of the merchant navy, it is set in Angola, developing intense activity in the Luanda Museum. It is from this time its first individual exhibitions and the beginning of a considerable poetic production. Returned to Portugal, in 1964, summarizes the surrealist project, no longer abandoning it. More than in painting, collages or objects, Cruz Seixas, the master of the lunar landscapes affirms in the drawing, in which he develops an unmistakable and very personal universe of contrasts. Painter, poet, cenographer, illustrator, collector, as well as curator of numerous artists who helped to launch and promote, Cruz Seixas did not like to be called an artist, but rather ‘ a guy who does things. ’ Distinguished as the Great Officer of the Military Order of Sant’ Iago da Espada, in 2009 for its artistic merit, and with the Medal of Cultural Merit in 2020 for the unquestionable contribution to Portuguese culture, Cruzeiro Seixas is represented in important public and private collections in Portugal and abroad. Its disappearance — no doubt one of the artists who most marked the evolution of contemporary art in Portugal — is a huge loss for our country and for the arts at international level, or was not the trace of Cruzeiro Seixas the trace of one of the last living surrealists. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Artur do Cruzeiro Seixas, conveying to his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Covertino Foundation of Miranda is present, whom I greet. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 400 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and CH, by non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues and by IL. ) — Despite the death of Artur Portela Filho, who will be read by Ms Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u242	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He left us last November 11th, at the age of 83, Artur Portela Filho, victim of the disease pandemic COVID-19. Born within a family of writers, painters and journalists, and son of the historical journalist Artur Portela, of whom he inherited the name, Artur Portela Filho was a multifaceted journalist, allying the skills of writing with those of research, in a long career, with passage through bodies of social communication such as the Diário de Lisboa, Diário de Noticias, República o La Capital, but, in particular, by the Week Option and the New Journal, which founded and led in the 70s of the last century in full revolutionary period. With training in history by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, he investigated the relations of the New State with Spain of Franco or Italy of Mussolini. Author of numerous political and social intervention chronics, stories, novels and essays, devoted himself especially to fiction, publishing more than two dozen works and seeing the first, Feira das Vaidades ( 1959 ), to be seized by PIDE. Independent of the left, it was always very close to Jorge Sampaio, of whom he was a former colleague and friend, and in whose campaign for the City Hall of Lisbon he collaborated. Artur Portela Filho joined the Social Communication Council, to which he chaired and later the High Authority for Social Communication, today the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, elected by the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of the journalist, chronicler, fictionist and researcher Artur Portela Filho, addressing his family and friends the most sympathy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We will move on to the Vote Project No. 401 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, which will be read by Ms. Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u244	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « He passed away on 11 November, Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, at the age of 98. Born on May 25, 1922, he was going to form in Agronomy and Landscape Architecture in 1950, at the Higher Institute of Agronomy, early marking with his trace the city of Lisbon that saw him born. Disciple of Francisco Caldeira Cabral, was an eminent university professor, consolidating in Portugal the school of landscape architecture, whose first degree was to be founded in 1976 at the University of Évora. Concerned citizen and intervention kept his action centered on harmony of nature and on defending the dignity of the human person, inaugurating, in Portugal, the ecological, pioneer and tolerant discourse. Monarchy and Democratic, he was a candidate for the National Assembly for Independent Monarchies in 1950 and 1957, and for the Electoral Commission for Democratic Unity in 1961. Founder of the Monarchical People's Party in 1974, representing the I, II and III Provisional Governments, as Assistant Secretary of State of the Environment, and the I Constitutional Government, led by Mário Soares, as Secretary of State of the same folder. It is intense the activity that starts. Integrating the Democratic Alliance in 1979, alongside Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral, is by this election to the Assembly of the Republic in that same year, and again in 1980 and 1983. In Parliament, it participates in the preparation of structural laws such as the Basics of the Environment Act, the Laws of Regionalization, the Environmental Impact, Conditioning of the Plantation of Eucalyptus, the Baldies or the Law of Hunting. Between 1981 and 1983, he joined the VIII Constitutional Government, led by Francisco Pinto Balsamão, as Minister of State and Quality of Life. Away from the Monarchy People's Party, he returned to the Assembly of the Republic in 1985, as an Independent Member elected on the lists of the Socialist Party. Even in 1985, he was elected Mayor of the City Hall of Lisbon by the Alfakinha Movement, founded by him. Years later, in 1993, it founded the Party of Earth Movement. It is immense the legacy of 98 years of intense life, in his city of Lisbon and in the country that admired him so much. The signature of the Master of Landscape is slightly everywhere, from the garden to the territory, assuming several scales: the Garden Promotion of the Chapel of São Jerónimo (his favorite) to the remodeling of the Avenue of Liberty and the Upper of the Park Eduardo VII, passing through the Mata de Alvalade, through the Gardens of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation (with Antonio Viana Barreto) or the Green Plan of Lisbon and the ecological corridors that are underlying it. A good city, as Ribeiro Telles defended, is the city that is passed through the countryside. Absent of public life a few years ago, its disappearance constitutes a great loss for Portugal, which had in Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles one of its great and unanimous references, eternal that will remain in our collective memory as an acute defender of the relationship between the countryside and the city, nature and ecology. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, paying tribute to the landscape architect, to the teacher and exemplary citizen and conveying to his family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u245	to the relatives present here, I present my respectful condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 402 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, and non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the victims of the road, on the occasion of World Day in Memory of Road Victims, which will be read by Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u246	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « It was celebrated last Sunday, November 15, World Day in Memory of Road Victims, this year under the theme « Remember, Support, Acti : Remember those who left, support those who suffer, act to prevent more disasters ». According to the latest report by the National Road Safety Authority, between January and September 2020 there was a reduction in the main road fatalities variables in relation to the 2019 homologous period, partly due to the state of emergency which occurred between March 19 and May 2: minus 7418 accidents with victims ( - 27, 0 %), less 89 fatalities ( - 22, 3 %), less 473 serious injuries ( - 24, 3 %) and less 9939 mild injuries ( - 29, 8 % ). Despite this improvement, which can be seen in all aspects, the numbers of sinequality continue to be worrying: 20 052 accidents with victims, which resulted in 310 fatalities occurring at the location of the accident or during transport to the health unit, 1473 serious injuries and 23,363 minor injuries. These indicators require that all — sovereign bodies, civil and police authorities and the general population — redouble efforts in preventing and combating this national scourge. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, pays tribute to the victims of the road, expresses its deep sorrow to their families and friends and recognises the contribution of the security forces, emergency teams and other health professionals who daily deal with this tragic reality".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u247	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 403 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Despite the death of Colonel Luís Macedo, who will be read by Secretary Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On November 14, Colonel Luís Ernesto Albuquerque Ferreira de Macedo died at the age of 73, victim of COVID-19. Captain of April, Louis Macedo played a decisive role in the events of 25 April 1974, which brought about the end of the previous regime and returned us to freedom and democracy. Having joined the Captains' Movement shortly after its establishment, Luís Macedo quickly became one of its most active members and was elected in 1973 to join the Coordinator Commission in the representation of the Engineering Arms. In the preparation of 25 April, the participation of Luís Macedo was of enormous importance, either in obtaining and organizing the space of its unit — the Engineering Regiment No 1, in Pontinha, where the Command Post of the Armed Forces Movement ( MFA ) was installed, or in the design of the order of operations, as operational assistant to Otelo Saraiva de Carvalho. For much of the night from 24 to 25 April, Luís Macedo was present at the command post, having moved, at the beginning of the morning, to the Trade Square in support of Salgueiro Maia, with whom he coordinated the assault to the GNR barracks and to the Portuguese Legion. After the Revolution, Luís Macedo participated in the reorganization of military structures. Between March and September 1975, he joined the Revolutionary Council as the representative of the Army. In 1990, he settled in Mozambique and there he developed private activity in the area of civil engineering until his death. With its disappearance, we lose an example of citizenship and a reference to our recent history, to whom we owe so much. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen and military and addresses the family, friends and the Association 25 April. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u249	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. to the relatives present here send a very strong greeting. We shall vote on the legislative part of the draft vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 405 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — regretting the death of Jorge Malheiro. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last November 14, at 79 years of age, Jorge Malheiro, former president of the Municipal House of Walls. Jorge Maria Fontoura de Queiros Malheiro, born 23 December 1940, was president of the Authority from 1977 to 1993. Jorge Malheiro incorporated as paragraph 2 the winning CDS list in the first municipal elections in Paredes. However, after the resignation of then President Francisco Ribeiro da Mota, he assumed the leadership of the Authority, which extended for 16 years. Among the numerous works and countless works done in favor of its council, one of its main brands was to have contributed decisively to the elevation of Walls to the status of the city. A man of quality and excellence, has left his mark among the authorships of the CDS, always with the awareness of the duty to serve and always with the aim of honoring Walls and all its inhabitants. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at Jorge Malheiro's death and to present his condolences to the family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u251	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Following the draft votes we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now move on to the Vote Project No. 406 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by Members of the PS and the PCP and the IL ) — Greetings to the centenary of Bernardo Santareno, which will be read by Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Born in Santarém, on November 19, 1920, Bernardo Santareno — the pseudonym of the psychiatrist Antonio Martinho do Rosário — was one of the most relevant Portuguese dramatists of the 20th century, affirming himself by the vast literary work, essentially in the realm of the theatre, but where he points to prose and poetry. His first book of poetry, Death on the Root, was published in 1954, with him born the pseudonym Bernardo Santareno, in honor of his city of Santarém and the Holy Father of the place of Espinheiro, where fathers and grandparents were born and where he spent holidays in childhood and adolescence. It is like Bernardo Santareno who becomes known in the Portuguese and international cultural universe. Romances do Mar follow in 1955, and in 1957, The Eyes of Vibora. It is this year that the book Theatre, with the plays The Promise, The Dancer and the Excommunicado — a work that the stager and critic António Pedro announces in the Diário de Noticias worthy of any modern country in the world, foretelling that ‘(...) the greatest playwright of all time is a young doctor embarked on the Portuguese cod fleet that uses the pseudonym of Bernardo Santareno ’. Leading to the scene The Promise, in the Experimental Theatre of Porto, by the hand of its director, Antonio Pedro, soon the censorship of the retreat of stage, under pressure from the most conservative sectors of the Catholic Church. The dramatist's journey begins under the sign of strong controversy, having Bernardo Santareno being persecuted for his values and ideas and his target theater of censorship. On the hard voyages to cod fishing by the seas of Terra Nova and Greenland in 1957 and 1958, boarded as a doctor, writes the piece The Lugre and the travel book Nos Mares do Fim do Mundo, deeply humanista. It is Bernardo Santareno who introduces into Portuguese society a new way of seeing and feeling the harsh suffering of fishermen, in contrast to the propaganda of the regime. In the period between 1957 and 1980, he writes 16 pieces that pursue the struggle for freedom and dignity of the human being against all forms of oppression — causes of the left-wing intellectual who has always been, having joined the Communist Youth in 1941, date from which he enlists in the Communist Party. The last piece, The Punho of 1980, was only published posthumously in 1987. Personality of deep culture, accompanies the work of Federico García Lorca, contacting the existentialism of Sartre, with Ionesco, or with Jean Genet, of whom he was a translator and whose theatre he represented for the first time in Portugal. The importance of Bernardo Santareno’s work — which disappeared on 29 August 1980 and whose birth was celebrated in 2020, lies in the centrality that gave individual rights and freedoms in opposition to the moral and social prejudices of a late and isolated Portugal from the rest of the world, addressing original and non-consensual themes for the time, such as the role of women in society, institutions and marriage. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, evokes Bernardo Santareno, welcoming and associating itself with the national commemorations of the centenary of his birth ( 1920 - 2020 ), to which he granted his high patronage. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u253	Thank you very much, Secretary Helga Correia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We also have to vote on a number of opinions from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I now ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read, after which they will be voted together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u254	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 1 — Criminal Instruction Judge of Braga — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No 2340 / 19.6T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria Gabriela Fonseca ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness in the field of the cars in question. The application of Judge 3 — Criminal Instruction Judge of Matosinhos — Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 5547 / 19.2T9MTS, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Sousa ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the reference cars. The application of Judge 2 — Local Criminal Court of Leiria — Court of Justice of the County of Leiria, Case No. 396 / 17.5T9LRA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to deliver an opinion to authorize Mr. Raul Miguel Castro ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the reference cars. The application of Judge 3 — Judgment of Criminal Instruction of Lisbon — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No. 1256 / 20.8S3LSB, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr.António Gameiro ( PS ) within the scope of the reference cars. The application of Judge 2 — Criminal Instruction Judge of Braga — Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga, Case No 1196 / 18.0JABRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr Rui Silva ( PSD ) within the scope of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u255	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions are under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u256	Mr President, Parliamentary appraisal No 35 / XIV / 2 was entered in the Bureau. a ( BE) and Resolution Projects Nos 763 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 764 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 765 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 766 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u257	The Secretary still has a communication to make. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u258	Mr President, I am going to announce that you were present by video conference. Members of the PS Luís Moreira Testa, Marcos Perestrello and Miguel Matos and Mrs. PSD Deputies Duarte Marques and Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, in addition to all Members who, by the rules established at the Conference of Leaders and in accordance with the Directorate-General for Health, are in their offices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-26.u259	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome those who are here, those who are in the offices and those who are at home. I note that there will be a 16-hour Conference of Leaders to schedule the next plenary sessions. Thank you very much to everyone and, above all, to the services, for all the work you have had during this State budget. I wish for a repertoire weekend. Until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 52 minutes.]]
