ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] Before we get on the agenda, I would ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce the non-admission of draft resolution No 625 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) and draft Law No 481 / XIV / 1. a ( CH). They entered the Bureau and were admitted to the following legislative initiatives: Resolution Projects Nos. 677 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 678 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 680 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 681 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 682 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 683 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 684 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 685 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 686 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 687 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 688 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 689 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 690 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 691 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 692 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) ; and Draft Law Nos 553 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 554 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 555 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 556 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u3	The first item on today's agenda is a debate with the Government on general policy under Article 224. Regulation, paragraph 2 ( a ). Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the subject I bring you here, which I admit can almost be classified as the most important subject that any of us could bring, has to do with the evolution of the mortality rate in Portugal. The PS, in the government, concentrated on the National Health Service ( SNS ) the efforts to combat the pandemic, saying—and well, I agree—that if we stopped the expansion of the pandemic, we would also stop mortality, because the National Health Service would be able to respond. What happens is that the mortality rate in Portugal has evolved in an absolutely dramatic way. Between March 2 and September 20 — these are the latest statistics — some 64,100 people died in Portugal. This figure corresponds to more than 7100 deaths than the average of the last five years, plus 12, 5 % deaths in Portugal in 2020 from March to now, in addition to what has been normal in the last five years. It would then be said that responsibility is in the pandemic. But it's not, because only 1920 people died from COVID, so there are over 5,200 people who died from other pathologies than the COVID. This means that they died, in a way that has nothing to do with the pandemic, plus 9, 2 % people than in the last five years. This is, to me, one of the most important problems that could pose to a Government of Portugal. Therefore, my initial question is whether the government is aware of the evolution of the mortality rate in Portugal if it does not think this is serious and, in view of what is serious, what the government is doing or at least what it is planning to do to counteract this development. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u6	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I can offer you a preliminary study that exists on excess mortality in Portugal, in the period from January to July of this year, where in particular refers to the incidence of high temperature and heat waves as having a correlation. However, as I say to you, it is a preliminary study, but I will be able to deliver it to you and you will be able to see the more in-depth conclusions and the reflection clues that are open. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u7	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u8	Mr Prime Minister, if we look at this data in a more fine way, we have seen a fact that is absolutely enlightening: in hospitals, more 7, 8 % of people than the average, but died, outside the hospital, more 27 % than what is normal, which means that if more than 27 % died outside the hospital, the problem is in the lack of assistance. If we were to see the numbers between January and July, the period referred to by you recently, i.e. in the first seven months of this year, we found that there were fewer than 1 million medical consultations in hospitals, which represents less than 14 %, and there were less 990 000, i.e. almost 1 million emergency episodes, which represents less than 27 %. There are a lot of people who are going to the emergency and shouldn't go, because you don't have to, it's true, but that won't certainly correspond to 27% of people who are going to the emergency. I mean, in every four people who go to the emergency, one of them didn't need to go there? No, there are necessarily many people who needed to have had this treatment, that assistance, and that did not have it. Then the waiting lists have worsened and there are cases with more than three years waiting for a consultation. And here is also a very remarkable figure: there were fewer than 99 000 surgeries, which corresponds to less than 24 %, but of these 99 000, 6000 were urgent surgeries that were not performed. So the question we have to ask is to know what happened to those 6000 Portuguese who needed urgent surgery and who didn't have it. Some must no longer be here at this time to explain to us what happened to them, because they will necessarily not be among us anymore. In primary health care, data are even worse: there are fewer than 4, 7 million medical consultations present in health centres, i.e. a fall of 38 %. As for health centres, I do not know if, at this time, there are still, but there have been, for a long time, closed health centers. Some of them are open, but do not receive people, push them into telephone service and then people complain because they call there often and nobody responds. Or, then, they are the health centers themselves that call people to say that the consultation they were waiting for has not been known how long it was delayed because I don't know how long it is also. So if all of us, who are in this Chamber, have the conditions for, as the Portuguese people say, we are in a situation like this, the truth is that the bulk of people in Portugal is not able to get rid of this situation and remains unattended. And this is for those Portuguese people who have a family doctor, because the truth is there are 1 million Portuguese people who don't even have a family doctor. So the question I am asking again is this: what concrete actions is the Ministry of Health carrying out to overcome these numbers? And, above all, with regard to family doctors, and with regard to the promise made by Prime Minister in 2016 that in 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor, and that we are in 2020 and there are still 1 million Portuguese people who do not have it, I ask: when will this promise be fulfilled? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u10	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, the study I mentioned recently concludes that there is no correlation between the breakdown of activity and the increase in the number of deaths recorded in this period. However, it is obvious that, with the pandemic, there was a very significant breakdown of care activity. It is also true that, especially in the months of May, June and July, there has been a significant recovery, but in August there has been no further failure, and we still do not have the final numbers in September. Still, if we compare the same periods, for example, in August, we found that the assistance this year was not significantly different from the previous years, from the immediately preceding year, with a reduction of 3, 6 %. Anyway, I'll share the study with you. It is the best information that exists and which, of course, deserves the greatest care and attention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u11	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will not repeat the question, but I note that there is a non-response, also regarding the promise you made in 2016, that by the end of 2017 all Portuguese would have a family doctor. So they do not have and did not get the answer when that promise could be fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]] But there's more data. I looked at the past, I talked about the past, but now I'm going to talk about the future. And, speaking of the future, what I consider to be the most serious are failures at the level of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. Less examinations are taking place, with breaks in the order of 30 %. For example, fewer clinical analyses and fewer radiology and cardiology tests are being done. Also, if you are doing less cancer screening, whether breast cancer, colon cancer, or cervical cancer, for example — not with 30 % breaks, with very lower breaks, but in any case the screenings have also failed. Here we're talking about the diagnosis, but what's even worse is the waiting lists for treatment. Someone who has a malignant tumor, who needs treatment and who is on a waiting list for that treatment, in most cases, I risk saying that he has a true death sentence. I myself have heard doctors report that cancer patients are getting to consult, to doctors, at a much more advanced stage than what was normal. That is, the treatment of these people will be more difficult, will be more expensive — patience! ... — but, above all, it will be less successful than if people had been treated in time and time. So, Prime Minister, as I mentioned at the outset, this subject is perhaps one of the most serious things I could bring here. And looking at the estimates for 31 December 2020, therefore, by the end of this year if nothing is done, if the evolution continues to be this one, we will have less than 10 million consultations in the health centres. You can tell me — and I think you can — that it is not true that it is less than 10 million. It can be 11 or 12 million, it can be 8 or 9 million less, it is true, but the order of greatness will be this, if you follow the evolution that has taken place since March. We will have less 2, 2 million specialist consultations in hospitals — it may be a little more or a little less, but the trend is this — and we will have less 214 000 surgeries in a linear evolution. in what matters most, Prime Minister, we will have more 12 800 to 13 000 deaths, of which 9500 will certainly not have to do with COVID. And, in these projections, there are missing those who will appear here because they have not had a diagnosis or a treatment. So the subject we are talking about is a serious matter. More: the months in which you die less, in Portugal, are between April and October and we are doing projections with these numbers. Therefore, if we enter November, December, January, February and part of March itself, evolution may be even worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u13	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies. You will still have a new opportunity in a second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u14	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to say something that's important. It is clear that we are here in a political debate between opposition and government, but what is more important to me is through this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u15	Mr President, the time spent in this first round will be discounted in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u16	... sensitize the government to act on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u17	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u18	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, of course, this is a subject that everyone has to worry about and its seriousness is evident. Regarding the focus of his intervention, I would like to stress the following: the IPO (English Institute of Oncology ) never stopped its activity and the response system to COVID was organized so that the IPOs were not hospitals-COVID, precisely to avoid affecting its activity. For example, if this year’s activity was compared to that of the previous year, during the same period, the IPO of Lisbon had, in June, an increase of 4 % and, in July, an increase of 20 % surgeries. Therefore, in relation to the oncological situations which he referred to, in fact, there was a separation of this activity. As far as family doctors are concerned, it is true that we have not yet met the goal we have set and that we will pursue it. Therefore, on the next day 10, they will integrate the tables of the National Health Service plus 435 general and family health doctors, and thus we will continue to do until we meet the goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u19	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is true that there is indeed more mortality in Portugal than that which COVID can explain — and it is not 1900 cases, it is already only 2040 because of COVID — which then adds mortality in other cases. And this is also not explained by the heat wave, because there were months in which there was no heat wave and this mortality was above normal, as happened, for example, in July. But because we have responsibility for the decisions we have taken, we need not only to observe what is happening but also to make proposals to solve the problem. And the Left Block has been identifying the problem a long time ago and making proposals. It is true that in Portugal there are people who wait and hope for an examination, consultation or surgery and, in the same way, it is true that health professionals are exhausted. In fact, what is most cruel in all this is that, even without the pandemic, we would be like this. We already knew that the National Health Service was very fragile. That is why in the State Budget for 2020 the Left Block traded with the Government more investment and more contracts in the National Health Service and that is why it made the State Budget viable. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] And one of the biggest problems we have right now is that neither these contracts nor this investment happened. They were planned in the State budget for 2020 and no contracts or investments were made. This means that, at the same time as health professionals are going to reform — precisely because they are entitled to this — the entries that are happening do not compensate for the exits, much less at the time when more people are needed, of the most varied health professions, to respond to the COVID pandemic. This also means that sectors in which the State does not have the capacity to respond, such as the complementary means of diagnosis, are those that are most backward, because precisely the State did not make an investment to internalize these complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, which remained in the hands of the private, and the private, with the pandemic, closed and did not want to know about the Portuguese population. [[CDS-PP and IL protests.]] I know that the right doesn't like to hear about these things, but we don't have to diagnose the problem, we have to go to the solutions—and so we go to them! It was necessary to hire the professionals who were already planned in the State Budget for 2020, and it is not from contracts to four months, temporary, that the National Health Service needs, even a net balance of more professionals. I say more: you need more doctors, but if the government continues to accept that the Medical Order can paralyze the training of specialists, we can open the contests we want, which we will not have the doctors we need. likewise, if the State does not have the courage to take steps, for example, in the sense of full dedication, to work in the National Health Service compensation, there will be doctors who will continue to prefer to work in the private sector and, as we all learn during the pandemic, the private closes the doors when the population needs more health care. That's why we need to hire and find a way to get more doctors. But it is necessary to hire in all professions, to make investments and to be responsible. During the state of emergency, the Left Block argued several times that the state of emergency should also be used to request the services of hospitals and private clinics, so that it was not just the SNS to keep with the COVID and to stop everything that was scheduled. The private people really like to receive money from the state when it's just profit, but when there was a pandemic, they were not called to assume any responsibility and that's a good part of the problem we're experiencing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In fact, the government had the courage to do what the Left Block often proposed without account, which was to force the private to respond also at the time of the COVID, requiring its services, the National Health Service would not have stayed with so many treatments, surgeries and tests scheduled to wait. It is this courage that is needed at this time: to defend the population much more than the health business and to defend health professionals. I would like to draw attention to what Prof. Constantine Sakellaryides said today, rightly: "Health professionals are exhausted. Or there are more professionals or they cannot deal with this new wave». The recruitment of more professionals has already been approved in the State budgets for 2019 and 2020. The government must implement what has been budgeted. It is urgent to have people and means in the National Health Service. But, Prime Minister, we'll have other rounds. I would like to ask you a question about another matter, which also has to do with the resources of the country. We have discussed the issues of the State, in fact, in Parliament the issues of even public procurement, which are very complex. From the Left Block, we know that more investment is needed, but also more scrutiny. More bureaucracy has proved to be incapable, both for investment and for scrutiny, but let us be clear: the Left Block will never accept less scrutiny with the excuse for execution. I would like to say to you, Prime Minister, that we think it was a mistake how the replacement of the President of the Court of Auditors was conducted. Not that the mandates have to be extended or renewed, which do not have, but, in fact, if the idea was to be just a mandate, this should have been said sooner. As you know, the term of Attorney-General of the Republic is longer than six years, not four years, and clarity would have helped this whole process. At the moment that Parliament moves in the legislation that the Court controls, it is important to have this transparency and calm. From that point of view, I would also like to say that we regret that the choice of the new President of the Court of Auditors, which was made by PS and PSD, could not be more free from controversy because we needed this tranquillity. But, Prime Minister, there are contracts, in particular, that I wanted to talk to you about, which are those of the road PPPs (public-private partnerships).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u21	Mrs. Deputy, from now on, time starts to cut off in the next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u22	Of course, Mr. President. On 3 April, Mr Prime Minister assured that PPPs would not be compensated. He even said that the situation we were living in was such that no such clauses could be invoked. On 30 April, the Government passed a decree stating that it will not compensate road PPPs for the period of the state of emergency but, in fact, will extend the contracts to compensate for losses over the pandemic period. This doesn't seem to make much sense. The 2020 budget already provides for more than EUR 1100 million only for road PPPs, which, as you know, is in the most lucrative areas. Only Brisa last year had over 200 million euros of profits. Do you have any losses with the pandemic and there's less traffic in the highways? Certainly! But what will the owner of a coffee or a restaurant say, subject to new rules and new times and surely with a lot of losses? How can the government find it normal to extend contracts and therefore pay future budgets with more money for road PPPs, when all other sectors of the economy are having the natural impact of the breakdown of activity without such compensation? Why, soon for the most lucrative business, the biggest compensation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u23	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u24	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, over the past five years we have been making a very significant recovery effort after the disinvestment in the National Health Service. Only in the original version of this budget have we had the greatest annual budgetary reinforcement ever, in more than 900 million euros. In the Supplementary Budget, already adopted as a result of the pandemic, we reinforced it in more than 500 million euros. That is, this year alone, we had a reinforcement of EUR 1400 million, which corresponds, only this year, to everything that the right had reduced in investment in the National Health Service, in the four years in which it ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As part of this strengthening, in the State budget for 2020, the objective is to hire more 8400 professionals within two years in 2020 and 2021. It is clear that in January, when we approved the Budget, we all knew that on March 2, we would have the first case of COVID. This was obviously disturbing the recruitment process and, of course, priority was given to being able to contract for the National Health Service, in extraordinary terms to respond immediately to the emergence of VOCID, 4406 professionals. at this moment, in liquid terms, we have more than 5200 professionals in the National Health Service than we had at the end of last year, 4400 of which result from these contracts, which were made on an extraordinary basis, because of the COVID. But precisely because irrespective of the extraordinary nature of the response to the COVID emergency, we know that these contracts correspond to permanent needs, we made the decision, by decree-law published on 1st of this month, to integrate into the SNS 4380 professionals. 2995 have already been integrated — among 912 nurses, 220 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, 480 technical assistants, 1320 operational assistants and 63 of several other professions — and these add 1385 vacancies, which are the competition, for doctors: 911 for hospital doctors, 435 for public and family health specialists, as recently mentioned by Mr Rui Rio, and more 39 for public health. That is, despite the circumstances of the COVID, we will comply with the part that this year we have to meet for, in two years, more 8400 professionals in the National Health Service. That is the commitment we have made, that is the commitment we have to fulfil, and that is the commitment we reaffirm to implement this year and next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I am happy to ask the question to see if we have any doubts that have existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u25	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u26	The Conseileur Vítor Caldeira was also appointed by the current President of the Republic, on a proposal from my former Government, and served the four years of his term of office, which ended last day 30. As will be recalled at the time of the replacement of the Attorney-General of the Republic, the President of the Republic publicly stated the criterion to which the President and the Government were bound, not to renew political appointment positions for the exercise of judicial functions. What would be completely incomprehensible was that, having adopted this criterion as regards the replacement of Mrs. Joana Marques Vidal, the same criterion was not now adopted for the replacement of the President of the Court of Auditors. I must also say that I am a little surprised at the lack of confidence in political leaders in relation to the institutions. The Court of Auditors is not its President and the quality of the Court of Auditors does not depend on the President being A or B. The institutions are worth it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Court of Auditors had already existed before the Conseileur Vítor Caldeira and will exist after the Conseileur Vítor Caldeira, because the institutions are so, there exist independently of the persons who circumstantially perform the duties. And be calm, Madam Member, because it will never be on the side of this government that will see the idea that the Court of Auditors is a blocking force. Don't! Here we do not have that view even when we do not share the Court of Auditors' point of view. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Last note: in the period of the state of emergency, what was legislated was that, during its validity, because there was a suspension of constitutional guarantees, no rights to compensation provided for in contracts for concessions via PPP would be invoked. Since the state of emergency, what we have had was not the creation of a right to compensation, it was that, in contracts where dramatic breakdown of use or the existence of force majeure situations, such as a pandemic, as evidence of compensation, compensation would never be paid in cash and would only be carried out through the contractual extension. In other words, no compensation was created, a contractually existing compensation was regulated and could not be called into question, because we were already beyond the state of emergency, and this compensation was reduced in a very clear way, which saves the taxpayer money and is paid in time, instead of being paid in euros, which come out of the taxpayer's pockets. This was the option made and I believe that it is the right option to protect the interests of taxpayers by fulfilling the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u27	Mr. Prime Minister, the short time you've spent will be discounted in response to the Left Block, in the second round. You now have the floor to put your questions to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, life in the recent past has proved that the value of work, wages and rights has always been a determining factor for growth and the dynamisation of the economy and job creation. And it showed how false and interesting it was the theory that announced the country's disaster with the increase in wages, the theory that, today, the PSD and its successors, accompanying the views of the representatives of the great economic interests, intend to recover. in recent months, thousands of workers have seen their salary cut with the application of the layoff, a situation that persists and that is unacceptable. As unacceptable is the tendency to impose wage freeze solutions, whether in the private sector or in the public sector, where freezing has been in force for more than 10 years. This is the way to aggravate recession and unemployment, promote impoverishment, injustice and inequality and sink the country. Prime Minister, the development of the country and the response to the crisis require the increase in wages of all workers, whether in the public sector or in private, including the increase in the national minimum wage, which in the short term should reach €850. They demand the end of the salary cut, through the layoff, and the suspension of dismissals. It requires the implementation of the insurance, penosity and risk allowance, the creation of the pay supplement for essential services workers and the modification of the single remuneration table, in order to reflect the increases in the national minimum wage. It requires the repeal of serious labour legislation, including the expiry of collective bargaining or hourly banks, the replacement of the principle of more favourable treatment for workers, the fight against precarious work and the deregulation of working hours. The signs coming from the Government are not to let us rest, either in relation to the minimum wage, or in relation to the salaries of the Public Administration, or in relation to other matters. So we ask : will the government definitely contribute to the improvement of living conditions, to combat recession, to create jobs and develop the country, with its initiatives and within its competences, promoting a policy for the general value of wages and workers' rights, or will it follow the opinions of those who are aggravating the crisis and who, when it comes to wages, only find zero or little measures? In particular, Mr Prime Minister, what measures does the Government intend to take in this regard? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u29	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u30	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I share the point of departure with you: the appreciation of family income is an essential component of the economic recovery process. If there is something that has marked the response to this crisis, in contrast to the response to previous crises, it is that, instead of resorting to austerity measures, with cuts in salaries, cuts in pensions and gross increases in taxes, what we have done, on the contrary, is defining as priority support for the protection of employment and support for the incomes of those who are in the event of loss of employment. These must be the priorities. That is why, as you know, in the course of the dialogue that we have been keeping around the State budget for next year, we have sought to take account of a number of proposals which have been put forward, in particular by the CFP, in the area of wage valuation. This is the case, for example, of the risk and insanity allowance, which is a very relevant element for essential service workers, particularly in many local authorities. We also consider that, despite the enormous economic difficulty that we are all experiencing — and many companies, in particular — it is necessary to maintain the objective of reaching the 750 € national minimum wage at the end of this legislature. And although we cannot maintain the constant and linear pace of having the same amount of increase in each year, as we had planned last year, it is very clear to us, and we have already proposed it in the social consultation, that this year there must be an increase in the national minimum wage, as a sign of confidence for those who work and the confidence of economic agents in our recovery capacity, even if we take into account the difficulties that we are, of course, facing. This increase will also necessarily have an impact on the maturity of the public service, because, despite the lower level of wage in the public service today above the value of the national minimum wage, surely any increase in the national minimum wage which is significant can only involve an increase in the basic salary in the public service, in order to accompany this movement of the national minimum wage. in the same way, we are sensitive that it is necessary to intervene in the context of collective bargaining, because it is obvious that we are in an exceptional situation, where the correlation of forces is very unequal and particularly unfavorable to those who work, and which is therefore justified, in this circumstance, a moratorium on the lapses of collective bargaining. We believe that this is useful and necessary in order for the social partners to find a field of manoeuvre, sufficient space to be able to negotiate what they have to negotiate, at the company level, at the level of the sector of activity, always valuing the contract and collective bargaining as a fundamental instrument of the value of income. This is the perspective we have. As you know, we are working hard so that we can have a good State budget, which corresponds, up to the limit of what is possible, to the needs of the country. And the country's needs are: to guarantee employment, to protect family income and to protect those who lose their jobs. These must be fundamental priorities for the country to keep its forces alive in order to be able to resume its activity when economic recovery is possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u31	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope you will not lack that interest to achieve the objectives you have referred to. But since we cannot escape the problems, let me briefly tell you about health issues. And the portrait is worrisome. More than 4 million consultations that were not conducted from January to July, compared with the 2019 homologous period, and thousands of new delays, not marking new consultations, among other problems, have brought dissatisfaction to users. The difficulties of access to primary care are not a new issue. On 30 August, 953 000 Portuguese had no family doctor. This and the non-replacement of obsolete equipment are some of the elements that characterize a health policy that needs to change. The CFP has also recently presented a concrete proposal, integrated into the national emergency plan for strengthening the SNS, which was essentially not followed by the Government. I ask you: how will you respond to the needs to combat the development of epidemic outbreaks, recover delays, normalize the functioning of primary health care and recover the tens of thousands of surgeries in delay? Allow me a small note, which you will consider insignificant, but which is a warning about the situation of medical boards: there are people who have been looking for reform for months, months and months and there is no order, there is no solution to their problems. It's a note I'd like to leave. in this sense, in addition to other substantive measures, we considered it important a significant impulse to recruit physicians, family nurses, lacking in primary health care. Another issue, taking into account the tightness of time, Mr Prime Minister, has to do with the following: we all know that thousands of micro and small enterprises have been severely affected by the current health situation and that during this time the Government has not generally given the answers that were needed. In the Supplementary Budget, on the basis of PCP proposals, with the participation of other parties, including the PS, it was possible not to solve but to remedy some things. What is incomprehensible is that it has arrived at the end of September without these measures being implemented and, worse, with some of them overturned by the regulations made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u33	Mr President, I am sorry, but from now on, the time spent will be cut in the next round of questions. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u34	We'll take it off, Mr. President. In the payment on account, in support of partners-managers, in income from business centres, in sabotage of access to credit lines we find examples of measures that have never met the problems they were facing, or because they were strangled in their regulations or because they were simply annulled in their application by the government. There are those who say, with bitter irony, that this is to play with people's lives, and you're right! Mr Prime Minister, it is urgent to correct these situations. What is the government going to do? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u35	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u36	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I would like to say that you are calm, because I do not lack enthusiasm. I don't know if we can get to exactly where our ambition, I believe that together, wants to take us. We will continue, at the same safe step that we have had over the past five years, without going back, without remaining step, but also with the concern of never taking that step greater than the leg, which leads us to stay suspended in the air. With our feet on the ground, we will, with confidence, continue to advance, while there is a road to walk. On strengthening the National Health Service, do you remember the objective of over 8400 professionals in two years? We have already answered and now we have more 5216 than we had at the beginning of this year. A large part of them, about 4400, resulted from extraordinary contracts via the COVID, and we are now integrating them into the National Health Service. 2995 have already been included, by virtue of the decree-law which entered into force on 1 October, and competitions for 1385 doctors are underway, which, as soon as they are completed, will be integrated. There was still little chance to say that, for general and family health specialists, 435 will enter the service on the next day 10.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u37	Mr. Prime Minister, I warn you that, from now on, the same thing will happen that recently, i.e., you start to cut off time in the next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. President, I'm done. Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on the other hand, we are paying attention to the inadequacies and are trying to overcome them and answer them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u39	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, so Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the Court of Auditors, we have already found that, with the consent of the President of the Republic, he has defined a standard, which is « who is doing a serious, useful and prestigious work is not renewed ». It had already been so, in fact, with Attorney Marques Vidal and now it is so with Judge Vítor Caldeira. The idea, Mr. Prime Minister, is no longer « who is messing with the PS leads», now is « who criticizes the PS takes a pair of skates, goes out and goes home». That's more or less what's at stake. We'll talk about it. The question is that criticism has to do with the new regime of public procurement. The question, Prime Minister, is that the new regime is scandalizing a lot of people, and well, because it is a scandal! Mr Prime Minister, when it is proposed that the ceiling should not be extended from €150 000 to €5.2 million, that is unacceptable! When you can contract, on the basis of argument of public interest, above the basic price, that is unacceptable! When you can repeat, over and over again, the same companies, this is equally unacceptable! On the issue of ceilings, for example, Prime Minister, the value increases not 1, not 10, but 35 times. The increase is 35 times! It is clear that I even understand the argument of reasonableness, but, Prime Minister, this proposal is not reasonable. The direct question, Prime Minister, is whether or not the Government and the Socialist Party are prepared to reach a solution of common sense, reasonable sense and balance, which, in fact, fights bureaucracy and allows the use of funds, but which is not what is on the table, which, from our point of view, is absolutely unreasonable, so we will put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u41	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u42	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, let us be clear: under the law and the Constitution, the President of the Court of Auditors is appointed by the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, which is exactly what happens with the position of Attorney General of the Republic. The current President of the Republic and the former Government have defined a criterion, which Mr. President of the Republic has in fact expressed very well in a communiqué which he published on 20 September 2018, when he explained that he made this appointment for two determining reasons. I shall focus on the first reason, which is this: firstly, it has always defended the limitation of mandates, in honor of the vitality of democracy, the affirmation of the credibility of institutions and the renewal of people and styles, at the service of the same values and principles. Therefore, what would be completely incomprehensible is that, having been defined by the President of the Republic and by the Government on the occasion of the replacement of the Attorney-General of the Republic, we have now changed our criteria when it comes to the presidency of the Court of Auditors. It seems, of course, that criteria have been defined according to the position, function and the person who wanted or did not replace, rather than a general criterion. The criterion may be right or may be wrong, but there is one thing that is right: when we define a criterion, then we have to keep to the end, for reasons of consistency, unionability and predictability of the State's performance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, he well knows that an institution exists beyond the people who jointly perform that function and that the Court of Auditors exists beyond its President and who jointly presides over it. We therefore have no doubt that the Court of Auditors, with all the advisory judges and counsellors who were in office, who are in office and who will continue to be in office, will continue to carry out their duties and deliver opinions on the matters they understand. On public procurement, I would also like us to understand the following: the current code was approved by my first government by decree-law. at the end of four years of evaluation and after numerous repeated criticisms of the most different entities and the most different agents, we decided to amend this diploma. We could have done so under the very competence of the Government in legislative matters. We could have done it by decree-law, as we approved the present. But we took the initiative not to do so by decree, but to present a bill to the Assembly last June. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We would like to do this on a proposal for a law so that the whole review would be fully transparent and would have the positive competition of all Members of Parliament and all Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. I think it is very useful to ask for opinions, which consider opinions — those that are positive, those that are negative, those that have suggestions — and I am sure that the law coming out of this House of the Republic will certainly be an excellent law, which will ensure the maximum that must be guaranteed: maximum transparency with the minimum of bureaucracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u43	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, the only thing to know about the law is whether or not it will go back because the proposal is bad. That's what's at stake. We'll see if the government goes back or not, but I hope so. I would like to ask two very concrete questions, and then I will put another one. First of all, in June, I asked Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, in front of a series of landings on the coast of Algarve, whether or not we were facing a new illegal immigration route. I was told by the Minister that thinking about this was ridiculous. I should like to draw your attention, Prime Minister, to the fact that the Foreign and Border Service confirmed yesterday — it is news yesterday — that there is an illegal immigration route, starting with El Jadida, the former Portuguese Mazagão, and arriving at the coast of Algarve. I ask you whether or not the Government admits the existence of this route and what it will do in this matter. I would like to ask you another very specific question: I have recently read, in the media, that we have no diploma, that the government is preparing to make a project to create 600 new frescoes. I ask you, Prime Minister, if this is true, if it is reasonable and if you think that the country even needs 600 new frescoes and thousands of new political positions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u45	You have the floor, Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u46	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I will reply very telegraphically, because I am afraid I have another question of yours. First of all, the government does not have to go back or forward. The Government has put forward a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, now debate and approve the diploma and the Government will be here to implement the diploma as defined. of the opinion of the Court of Auditors, there are aspects which I think are correct and which should be dealt with. For example, when you draw attention to the fact that there must be no repetition of contractors, I agree. With another aspect, which runs counter to the objectives of creating local contracts, favoring short circuits and valuing regional development, I do not agree. But the Assembly will consider it properly. As for other matters, I will answer later, so that I can still have some time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u47	Mr Telmo Correia continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u48	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there have already been two questions to answer: the question of the route and the « ridiculous» of the Minister of Internal Administration and the question of the fragesias. The last topic I wanted to talk about was the opening of this debate. Mr. Prime Minister, there are a number of issues, but you know what it is? It's the lack of 15-year debates, isn't it? I mean, they're done with them, and now there's a lot of subjects, two in two months. There's nothing else to do. As I was saying, the last topic I wanted to talk about was the topic of opening up this debate: the question of health. I think, obviously, the diagnosis that opened this theme is well done and the numbers are correct. That is to say, we are actually talking about some 7 million present acts that have not happened. We are talking of between 1 million and 1 million, according to the Minister, and 3 million, according to the Medical Order, of consultations that have not been made. We're talking about 1 million Portuguese without a family doctor. We are talking about a mortality rate that has increased — there were 6000 dead during this period and it certainly will not have been just a matter of heat, as Mr Prime Minister said. The question, from our point of view—and on this we do not agree with what we have heard—is not so much about the diagnosis, but about the therapy to be applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u49	Mr President, I inform you that, from now on, you start to cut off the time for the next round to your bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u50	Of course, Mr. President. I'm done. Mr. Prime Minister said: "Let's hire more health professionals. All right, we have nothing against that. It says : « We will strengthen the National Health Service. » Right, that's not the problem either. The question that arises, which has not been referred to in the initial question and which has not been answered so far, is that of knowing what answer we can have in addition to that. It is that, Mr. Prime Minister, in our view, the National Health Service, no matter how strengthened it is, will never be enough. We heard the story of the request and ending the private, that the Left Block and its partners on that side always lift. What you should do is not demand or end up with the private. What should be done, Prime Minister, and what should still be done today is to contract with the private. That is the way and that is the solution, because the common citizen, whether to do a test or to do a treatment, does not have access to the private, as is evident. It is only by contracting that there will be an answer. This is the question: are you, or are you not, willing to contract more and use more of the installed capacity, Prime Minister? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u51	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u52	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, on the last question I have already answered several times, so I do not have much more to add. On the other two issues, first of all, we are working with both the Government of Morocco and its own devices to ensure that legal immigration channels exist and that illegal immigration channels cannot work. With regard to the question of the parish, the Government does not intend to create any parish. Moreover, as you know, constitutionally, this is of the absolute competence of the Assembly of the Republic. So you can be quiet, because, even if we wanted to create strawberries, we couldn't raise them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u53	Mr. Prime Minister, I inform you that, in the next round of responses to the CDS, you will have less time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. What the government has done is absolutely essential. Since 2012 there has been no longer a framework law defining the criteria for the creation, extinction or notification of fragesias, and what was assumed in the Government Programme was that we would present a new framework law to the Assembly of the Republic. That's what we're doing. We are concluding the framework law, we have been working closely with the National Association of Freguesias, we have come to an understanding of the matter and, briefly, we will present to the Assembly of the Republic the proposal for a framework law. The Assembly of the Republic will appreciate, see the criteria which the Government proposes and does not propose, approve or not the law and, by passing the law, we will have a framework law. From then on, if the Assembly creates or does not create ferries, I don't know! Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will know. As for the Government, it does what it is responsible for doing within its technical competences to define a framework law and to present it to the Assembly of the Republic. The Assembly of the Republic will discuss it and will soon see whether it creates or does not create ferries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u55	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. In fact, it was with concern that we followed the recent case of Vítor Caldeira, who had a courageous mandate, was beaten by an independent, transparent and rigorous Court of Auditors, without fear of facing anyone else. We are indeed before the first President of the Court of Auditors who is not renewed in his mandate, when the constitutional rule of four years has already covered the mandates of other presidents, such as Alfredo José de Sousa and Oliveira Martins, without ever any government, including PS governments, to interpret it as having a single mandate logic. Interestingly, we have not heard this same criterion being thought of for other entities, such as the Portuguese Environment Agency, which would indeed be an authentic public service. Mr Prime Minister, we have heard you claim reasons for greater transparency in making this decision. Once again, however, this Chamber has been left aside from the debate which should have preceded this decision, which was taken in the backyard by the central bloc and with the convience of Mr President of the Republic. This seems to us particularly worrying in a context where there is a kind of Simple in public procurement when the country is going to receive a significant volume of European funds, these funds that are absolutely essential to fill needs, such as the one mentioned here today about the National Health Service or primary health care, whose weaknesses have already been pointed out here. The management and application of these resources, Mr Prime Minister, in our view, seems to us that they demand strict scrutiny either from the Court of Auditors or from civil society. Here we have to be able to use the so-called 'European bazauca', so that we do not end up taking a real shot at our feet, Prime Minister. As you know, since the first negotiating meetings of the State budget for 2021, the NAP has defended the creation of a transparency portal that would show in an accessible way where and how European funds will be spent, in line with what the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) proposes, as well as we argue that this decision on the use of these funds should also involve citizen participation. Mr Prime Minister, since the Government's position is not yet clear on this proposal, what we would like to ask is whether or not your Government is available to ensure that this very important measure is enshrined in the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u58	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I must confess to you that I am very pleased that, at the end of Mr Vitor Caldeira's term of office, the recognition of the good choice that the Government has made and to which the President of the Republic has followed his appointment four years ago is unanimous. In fact, I understand this as a vote of confidence that the new choice and appointment can only indicate that, within four years, the Councillor José Tavares will have such great appreciation as today's Councillor Victor Caldeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the funds, as I have said, it is a huge responsibility that we have, it is a huge responsibility, no one would forgive us if there was a huge expenditure on these exceptional Community funds. We therefore resolve to provide it and frame it with a strategic vision, based on a public debate, developed and designed by a personality external to the government that has mobilized civil society. It is that the poll begins in the drawing up and drawing up of the programme and that is why the Government took the initiative to organize a thematic debate here in the Assembly of the Republic on the Recovery and Resilience Plan. I am sorry, for example, that the honourable Member did not make the proper contribution to this Recovery and Resilience Plan, which would surely have helped to enrich its content. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, not only will all the control mechanisms that have existed as we are working on a governance model that strengthens these control and scrutiny mechanisms. From now on, as you know, we fully agree with a portal, which is already being worked, which allows us to add in a transparent, clear and real-time manner all the flow of Community funds, in addition to the information that is always available by the ADC (Development and Cohesion Agency) and the other management entities. Moreover, we took a step of the greatest importance, which was to decentralise the implementation of the funds as never before. This is the first generation of funds that will not be executed by CCDR ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees ) appointed by the Government, but will be executed by CCDR elected by the authorities of each region. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u59	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real continued to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u60	Mr Prime Minister, he works in error or is indeed ill-informed, because the NAP did not hesitate to contribute either to the Recovery and Resilience Plan or, of course, to the State Budget for 2021. But since we are talking about Budget, I cannot fail to mention a concern for the NAP with the stagnation of the average wage in Portugal. The truth is that the middle class very little or nothing benefited from the so propelled turn from the page of austerity. Year after year, while seeing, and well, the minimum wage increased, they listened to the government's promise — indeed, from successive governments — that "for the year it is" while living in a real fiscal exhaustion situation. The NAP has argued that, along with the increase in the minimum wage, it is also important to give a clear signal to the middle class and review the intermediate steps of IRS (tax on income of natural people), something that would have a direct impact on the lives of these people and would give them an effective increase in income, which seems more than fair to us. This measure would cost the country some EUR 206 million, which, in our opinion, could and should be more than compensated in various ways, particularly where road PPPs were renegotiated, which, for example last year, cost EUR 1160 million more to the country, or, for example, by effective carbon taxation, with the aim of tax exemptions on polluting products, which cost taxpayers more than EUR 500 million per year, or by carbon taxation of intensive livestock, which could pay EUR 179 million per year to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u61	Madam Member, the time you exceed, as you know, will be discounted in the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u62	I conclude now, Mr President. Budgetary compensation exists and the NAP presented them. It remains to be seen whether there is political will of your Government to carry out this valuation of the middle class or whether these citizens will continue to have to wait for better days that they fear never to arrive, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u64	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, with regard to the State budget we have indeed maintained a dialogue, we are working and considering many of the ideas that the NAP has proposed and there is a point that is absolutely real: the evolution of the average wage and the situation of the middle class did not accompany the very significant growth of the minimum wage. As for the minimum wage, we can declare it; the average wage is the result of the dynamics of collective bargaining and wage bargaining. Indeed, we have had a need to compensate, either by tax — today the Portuguese pay less EUR 1 billion per year of IRS than they paid in 2015 — or by non-monetary transfers, such as the cases of public transport policy or the policy we are developing to create affordable rent. However, if you remember, we had defined this legislation as a priority to face a very serious solution, in particular, which has to do with the wage for entry into the labour market of qualified young people. A negotiating process on the exploitation of more qualified employment is open at the heart of social dialogue. This negotiation is not halted, but, of course, it has been disturbed throughout this year by the exceptional circumstances we have come to live. Of course, this is not the context where we can achieve better results in this negotiation, but it is a work with which all the social partners remain committed and that we will continue, together with the negotiation we have been doing in the area of reconciliation of professional, personal and family life, which are the two subjects that we define as priorities for negotiating in the context of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, the longer time you used will be discounted in the second response to the NAP. For the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, as you know, the managers of micro and small enterprises affected by the reduction of activity were, at an early stage, excluded from extraordinary support under the pandemic. In fact, only three months after the reduction of the activity and the onset of the pandemic is that the management partners have become eligible for financial support. In the face of the impasse installed and the lack of answers, some small companies eventually processed their partners' salaries and paid taxes and benefited from the exemption of social security contributions during the period during which the company was in simplified layoff. It follows that in these cases the management partners were excluded from the extraordinary support relating to the reduction of their activity during the months when small enterprises were in simplified layoff. It is easy to see that this situation constitutes a clear inequality of treatment and represents an injustice that needs to be removed. We well know that if the PS had approved the Greens' proposal on the issue of management partners, these problems did not arise, but the PS preferred to come up with a solution with the PSD, which, in fact, in this case gave a further walkover, and instead of solving the problem, said goodbye, as we are now seeing. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, I wonder whether the Government is considering reviewing this measure, in order to remove the injustice that this situation is causing for many partners. Another question, Mr. Prime Minister, has to do with the stoves in the Mira River Perimeter. In view of the social and environmental problems that the invasion of plastic greenhouses are causing in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira, and in particular in the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, the Government has published the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019. It happens that, contrary to what was expected, it would be to put a brake on this invasion of plastic and take care of the living and working conditions of the thousands of immigrants working there, this resolution has authorized the triple of the current agricultural area covered by plastic, which estimates a considerable increase in the area of the Mira Kingdom Perimeter, to a maximum of 40 %. In other words, the resolution allows the expansion of agricultural practices that require intensive use of water for water, amazing use of plastics, fertilizers and synthetic pesticides and that is going through the hiring of immigrant workers under unclear and unrecommendable conditions. That is why the people are outraged and have already given rise to a request to revoke the resolution of the Council of Ministers. It was therefore of interest, Mr. Prime Minister, to see whether the Government is considering revoking the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u68	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, on the first question, the problem is the following: as you know, the legislation adopted by the Assembly of the Republic has retroactively applied the protection it has created. Therefore, people who had previously benefited from this exemption and who have also gone retroactively now to benefit from second protection cannot, of course, have a dual protection, so it is in those circumstances, and only in those circumstances, in order to be able to benefit from the new protection which the Assembly of the Republic has consecrated, wider and more generous and applied retroactively, will have to restate the exemption that they have benefited, in order not to remain a situation of inequality, that is to have a dual protection, that which the Government had ensured and that which then the Assembly of the Republic applied to them successively. Secondly, I believe that there is a huge misunderstanding because what the resolution of the Council of Ministers came to do, such as the Zero (Sustainable Earth System Association), in fact, already publicly recognized, was to reduce by 80 %, which was allowed by the Costa Vicentina planning plan, to 40% the area of greenhouses, high tunnels and greenhouses. Therefore, there was no triple area, there was a reduction of 80 % to 40 % area. This is what we did in order to ensure the best balance between the full use of the extraordinary conditions of that region for the production of vegetables and also the protection of the environmental value of the Costa Vicentina. It is in this balance that we have done, that is, we have reduced the area possible to allow this activity with preservation of environmental values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u69	Mrs Mariana Silva, if you wish to use the remaining four seconds, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, it is not the Greens who talk about the increase in the area, it is the document of the Odemira Municipal Assembly, which, by chance, is of the Socialist Party. So I ask the services to give you a copy, since I do not have time to read what is written here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u71	Mr. Deputy, the excessive time you used discount in the time of the second round. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u72	Mr President, it is only to thank the honourable Member for her kindness to send me the document.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u73	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u74	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you present yourself here in the House as the Prime Minister who has no idea of anything. You don't know about the parish, because it's the fault of the Assembly of the Republic ; you don't know anything about mandates, because you're with the President of the Republic ; you've set a criterion with Prof. Marcelo Rebel de Sousa, who has already said that for the Presidency of the Republic, you only defend a mandate too - there must therefore be a question with criteria that have to be well defined among you. But, Mr. Prime Minister, there is one thing that is certain: Mr. Prime Minister retrained the Inspector General of Internal Administration, Judge Margarida Blasco, just two years ago. And then I didn't hear him say that he didn't agree with the criterion or that he had set any other criterion. The truth is that only when the criterion does not suit you is that you drive people away! He removed that attorney who was going to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, but let's imagine how, disappeared and was no longer appointed ; he removed the Attorney General of the Republic and now arrives here and says that there is a criterion with Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, who hasn't said anything about it yet. The truth is this, Prime Minister. Why has the Inspector-General of the Internal Administration renewed in 2018, who has been in office since 2012? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u75	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u76	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I can repeat for the last time that there is a set of positions whose appointment under the Constitution and the law is the responsibility of His Excellency the President of the Republic, on the initiative of the Government. Since it is proper between organs of sovereignty and in the proper articulation between one another, it is normal that there is a definition of a criterion together so that those who propose do not cause a discomfort to whom they have to name or appoint cause an uncomfortable unnecessary need to whom they propose. Therefore, the criterion which has been defined in a very clear way — and which Mr President of the Republic has also stated in a public note on this matter — is that the appointment of the President of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, is worth the principle of non-renewal of mandates. Bridge! That's what I can tell you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u77	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u78	Mr President, we have not seen that well in the note by the Presidency of the Republic, but we look forward to Mr President's explanation on this matter. Mr. Prime Minister, police were again assaulted in the Moura Cave. It is not the first, nor the second, nor the third, nor the fifth, nor the twentieth, nor the twentieth time that, in this House, the Arrival says that the police continue to be miserablely assaulted in neighborhoods that, some of them, should not have existed for a long time. So today, here, I want to ask you: what are you going to do? It is because your Minister of Internal Administration said that he was going to be a priority action, but that's how it was a year ago, two years ago, 10 years ago, and the police, firemen and security forces are still being brutally assaulted without anyone raising a word for them. And the government continues to wash its hands from there, as if it were not its responsibility. Until April, more than 200 police officers were assaulted in Portugal, 87 of which were only during the state of emergency. What will the government do about it? Oh, my God! It's just that it's not the first, nor the second, nor the tenth, nor the twentieth time I ask you the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u79	Mr President, the 30 seconds you have exceeded your time will be discounted in the second round. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u80	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, it is not necessary to exalt yourself so much because my notion and the notion of this government is very clear: aggression to any authority agent is an aggression to the rule of law,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u81	...is intolerable in a rule of law and its punishment must be exemplary and have priority character. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u82	You have the floor to ask Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the next debate will be in two months, but within the next 24 hours, the final version of the budget will be approved in the Council of Ministers, which will then enter this House. As a great classic of the American song, which can make a difference one day, 24 hours; 24 hours, Prime Minister, for the government to show us that you are serious about the priorities that the government has defined or, at least, presented to us yesterday. We have talked about protecting people and income and, in addition to the increase in the minimum wage, what we have seen was a reduction in VAT (tax on added value) of electricity and a hyper-complicated scheme — perhaps the Prime Minister can elucidate us here today — of returns of VAT spent on hotels and restaurants. The total of these two things should not exceed 0, 1 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). Then we have the protection of companies and jobs, also a very acceptable and invaluable priority. But, in fact, it does not have any kind of problem of decapitalisation of Portuguese companies and only wants to apply less than a third of the funds that will come from Brussels under the recovery plan. Therefore, Prime Minister, you have these 24 hours to pass what, in our case, are not red lines, are more blue lines, particularly at the level of tax breakdown and simplification — some of the 4000 study fees that the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) presented, a few days ago, could very well be eliminated or relieved — and do not forget to update IRS steps, because they say that inflation will be very scarce or even negative, but not for the purchase caching of the lowest steps, and that would be a way to relieve the lives of these people too. As regards the governance of the funds, I am very pleased that Mr Prime Minister has said recently that he is preparing to strengthen the governance of the European funds and is preparing a transparency portal for these funds. Finally listen to the Liberal Initiative. The government will be better off if it continues to do so, but I hope to see, until it is done. We then have the elimination of huge delays in payments accumulated by the SNS, already mentioned several times here. This had two advantages: a huge advantage for people who are at risk of life or in suffering and another who would not have to listen to the lamentable speeches of Mrs Catarina Martins from hate to the private and from not having to be here, day or day, to talk about the same subject, making use of the resources available in private. Mr. Prime Minister, the question is: what difference is it that these 24 hours are going to make?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u84	Before giving the floor to Mr Prime Minister, I would just like to inform the Liberal Initiative Member that he will have less than 56 seconds than was planned for the second intervention. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u85	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I believe the good news is that we will not wait two months for the next debate because on 27 we will be here discussing precisely the proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u86	Hallelujah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u87	So we will have the pleasure of finding ourselves much earlier than I was afraid of. I believe that the next 24 hours will not change the world, but they will certainly allow us to approve a State budget in the Council of Ministers, which will enter the next 12th day and which corresponds to the priorities that are essential today, so that we can control the pandemic, so that we can regain the economy, so that we can rebuild the country. The priorities are very simple. We need to protect businesses in order to protect jobs, we need to protect employment to protect family income and we need to protect the income of families who have fallen into unemployment. Protection, protection, protection is what is fundamental, so that we can then move on to the next phase, which is relaunching, relaunching, relaunching our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u88	To conclude this first phase, you have the floor to put questions to Mr Prime Minister John Paul Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, spoke recently about the legislative process that is taking place here in the Assembly of the Republic which has to do with amendments to the Public Contracts Code. I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party will focus its legislative intervention on maximizing transparency and minimizing bureaucracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Overbureaucracy favours opacity and impairs transparency and, if we leave everything in it, difficulties continue. Let's take a very practical example, Prime Minister. A municipal chamber that decides today about the need to build a social equipment — a health centre, a daycare centre, a school — will only open this service four years ago, only in 2024. That is, between the identification of the need to create the response until the opening of the service, in the case of a daycare, the children have already jumped from preschool to 1. the cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's true! That's the truth!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u90	Therefore, we cannot have a public procurement code with such inadequate rules of public investment opportunity. Another very important aspect has to do with the current budget and economic situation in our country. Instead of confirming the most pessimistic scenario, technically classified as a severe scenario, the basic scenario, i.e. the least pessimistic scenario, is confirmed that Portuguese GDP will not fall into a value above 10 %. And this is due not only to the resilience of our economic model, which has been continued and developed until March of this year, but also to the government's response, which has mobilized companies and workers. We would therefore like to leave here a word of great recognition to our economy, businesses and workers. We heard, this week, the PSD talk about its proposals, its strategic vision by 2030 ; we also heard, a few weeks ago, that the main concern of the PSD for the coming times, for economic recovery, was that the national minimum wage was frozen; and we heard, days ago, in this public presentation, the leader of the PSD said that it does not bother you that when a young newly licensed enter the labour market a low wage and that the second salary of that young person continues to be low. Well, these two principles that the PSD recovers from the Coelho Step model are almost identical to the invitation made to young people, at the time, to emigrate, but mark a huge difference between the growth model that the PSD proposes to the country and the model of economic growth of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We believe that the country's economic growth model should be based on wage valuation, value income, knowledge and innovation, and we count on new generations and young people for that, because we need to create hope and confidence in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, when Europe discussed understandings and convergences in the responses to economic and social stabilization that are under way, for the economic recovery plan or for the next multiannual financial framework, we all hoped that Europe would reach an agreement, that European leaders would understand, that there would be convergence at European level, because we were all convinced — and we all know — that there is no economic recovery without political stability and without convergence between European leaders. And Member States have been able to overcome these differences and reach understandings that have launched economic stabilization, now prepare the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the next multiannual financial framework. We regret that those same parties who applauded this convergence and understanding at a European level, who had this reading of the importance of political stability and convergence at a European level today are on the backs of national political stability. If Europe cannot have a political crisis on an economic crisis and on a social crisis, our country cannot afford to have a political crisis on an economic crisis and a social crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We would like to commend the Government for the effort and success in the negotiations that are taking place with our parliamentary partners, with whom we have taken a course in the past five years. These negotiations have been successful, because the State budget — and I would like to ask these questions, Prime Minister — this State budget which the Government is going to submit to the Assembly of the Republic, does not present any withdrawal from the measures taken in respect of income policy, labour rights and social rights which have been achieved in the last five years. This is of the utmost importance because, if this is a fundamental starting point, it is also essential to make clear that negotiations with the Left Block and with the CFP are building significant advances on these fronts: strengthening the National Health Service, as Mr. Prime Minister has already explained; strengthening housing policy; increasing public investment, aimed at all areas, not only in the National Health Service, but also in transport; moving towards improving access to unemployment benefit, social unemployment benefit, new social benefits so that people do not live below the poverty threshold in this period of social fragility of the pandemic; combating precariousness and increasing national minimum wage. There is no reason, Prime Minister, to waste these advances and staunch the country. We need to move forward, we count on our parliamentary partners. We can't leave anyone behind, that's our purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u91	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u92	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, the people used to say: "there are those who create difficulties in selling facilities". With this, the people, in their wisdom, know well that it is not with greater bureaucracy that transparency increases. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the contrary, bureaucracy is even the source of opacity. And the challenge we face is not to reduce scrutiny, it is not to increase opacity, it is not to increase the risks of irregularity, it is to be more efficient. It was also good that the Assembly of the Republic, one day, could make an overall assessment of the internal control system of the State, confronting it with an internal control system in many companies. It is that the experience of many entrepreneurs who have already been in companies and who have already worked in the State have, when they articulate and relate to the State, is shocking among the gigantic bureaucratic burden involving the internal control systems of the State, compared with what happens in the private sector. The question I am asking is whether this excessive bureaucratic burden has ever contributed to improving the efficiency of internal control of public expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Sometimes I get a little puzzled and even feel that there are some people who prefer that there has not been a strengthening of Community funds to deal with this crisis, such is the fear that an increase in Community funds will increase the risk of misuse of Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u93	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u94	But first of all, I think that the Portuguese have the right to know what the European Union has done year after year, from 1986 until today, of the use of Community funds which are made available to Portugal. Surely they would be very surprised, in the face of all that they hear on television, that Portugal has always been among the countries with a better assessment of the European Union since 1986 on how it makes use of public money. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal can be proud — certainly the fruit of 50 years of dictatorship — of the fact that the constituents have been particularly demanding in the design of our model of separation and interdependence of powers. There is no country in Europe where the guarantee of judicial dependence and the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor has the degree of intensity that exists in Portugal. There's no comparison anywhere! That is why, particularly last week, when the European Commission published the first assessment report of the rule of law in the 27 Member States of the European Union, Portugal now appears not last but firstly as the country in which there are fewer complaints of violation of the rule of law throughout Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the level of Portugal, there are only countries such as Lithuania, Latvia, Finland or Estonia. And this is essential for citizens to have confidence in institutions and in the capacity to implement public resources. There is something that I do not have the slightest doubt that we are experiencing the economic crisis we are experiencing, which has an increase of more than 100 000 unemployed in a few months, which has a terrible loss of income for thousands of families, with people in Layoff's situation, with families who have to stay at home caring for their children, with people who have small businesses and are afflicted to keep them running, who have companies who struggle daily to continue in activity, despite the global markets having closed and the breakdown of internal demand, who are struggling hard to relaunch the country. The last thing we have to say is that we do not want to use these resources or allow ourselves to misuse those resources. I have had the opportunity to say it and I repeat: this is a gigantic responsibility that the country has and the country has to be able to execute every cent with the highest rigor and the highest proficiency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this to happen, we must have the control systems, but we must also have the capacity to run, knowing, as we all have time to repeat, that we will have, in the next 10 years, to run twice as much of what we have done in the past on average. We all know, even those who now suddenly blow to the side pretending not to know it, the enormous difficulty that we have to implement in the legal framework we have. So we have an obligation not to waste the money and also not to let it be misused. And we also have an obligation not to be incapacitated in the Assembly of the Republic — because this is a proposal for a law which is under discussion — to adopt a system of procurement which, by ensuring transparency, competition, quality in award, also ensures the possibility of executing in time and time what we have only in time and time to implement, under penalty of losing these resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, I trust this Assembly of the Republic. I do not think that the Assembly of the Republic, where, in fact, the PS and the Government do not have a majority, is not able to produce a legal framework that strengthens confidence and also efficiency in the implementation of Community funds. The day I do not believe in the Assembly of the Republic, then the problem is serious because it means not to believe in the regime. I believe in the regime, and I believe that you and the ladies. Members, who are elected by the citizens, have every opportunity to adopt a good legal framework for the proper implementation of the next Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u95	The PS Parliamentary Group continues to speak. Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, are not absurd to say that we have not been as challenged as in recent times. The pandemic brought an avalanche of problems that we had to approach in a timely and urgent manner. We did not push people out of the system, believe in scientific studies, wait for scientific answers to explain, for example, the increase in mortality in Portugal. This process, which is still under way, has brought inevitable stress to institutions, to the system and, above all, to organizations in the first line of response to COVID-19. This stress, however, not only had an institutional expression, but, for example, the removal of family members, the separation of parents and children, grandparents and grandchildren and even the isolation of more vulnerable people not only disturbed the economy but also involved a response to problematic situations such as exclusion, depression, poverty, unemployment, additive behaviors, strengthening measures for mental health. Mr. Prime Minister, the social response has always been, and will continue to be, the priority of this government. We now know that the disease has changed characterization and profile. of the new cases, only 12 to 15 % are in people over 70 years of age, which means that we have better protected the most vulnerable and that we should call for more socially responsible behaviour of the younger. What do you have to say, Prime Minister? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny the problems, we try to solve them first. The pandemic context that we go through has emphasized the importance of having a health system based on characteristics such as ours, in which the National Health Service assumes a central character, but on the other hand, it exposes vulnerabilities that need to be corrected. It is in this sense that the Recovery and Resilience Plan, already mentioned here, identifies the social areas, with great emphasis on health. Strengthening primary care has already identified Mr. Prime Minister. How does the Government also intend to strengthen the nevrálgic area of proximity care, making the National Network of Integrated Continued Care more efficient, being Portugal a country where aging becomes strategic in relation to demographics, with the resulting social and economic reflections? On the other hand, Prime Minister, winter is at the door and services will not be immune to an increase in demand. We know of the effective strengthening of human resources. On September 28, there were 4754 health professionals, it is necessary to repeat,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u97	... with fixed-term binding contracts in the context of COVID. Many of these professionals will be able to enter into contracts without end, as required. What perspective can these professionals have, Prime Minister? We also know that incentives are provided that somehow compensate for the inexhaustible dedication of professionals. What can you also tell us about that? How can the digital transition enable a more efficient response to health? Finally, can we expect, like the last State budget, to strengthen our health? I am confident that health will continue to be a priority for this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u98	Madam Member, the time spent in your speech will be cut out in the second round. You have the floor, Prime Minister. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u99	You have to think a little bit first!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u100	Mr. Deputies, it was something I should also do!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u101	I've got plenty of time! Two months!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u102	Mr President, Member of Parliament, the situation of households has naturally deserved care and attention from all of us, given that they concentrate a large number of users who constitute a risk group because of their age. currently, we have between 2500 homes, 62 outbreaks and a total of 767 infected users in a universe of over 99 000 users. It must be understood that this situation, being dramatic, has required an enormous effort, moreover, supported by the State, by the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), by mutualities and by the mercys. Surely better and worse, there is an extraordinary effort that the institutions have made and I can't help but greet Dr. Manuel Lemos that, even last week, he telephoned me quite excitedly because we were finishing the fifth consecutive week without a single death because of COVID in any home of Portuguese mercy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think we need to be able to support the institutions that support our elderly. We must go further and that will be expressed in the State Budget, it is to be expressed in the creation of mixed intervention brigades, and above all will be expressed in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in which the comprehensive completion of either the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, or the National Network of Palliative Care, of new social responses in support of the elderly, both in the area of mental health, in home support or through the informal caregiver, so that we can have an increasingly adapted health service to the demographic dynamics, which, fortunately, gives the population an extension of life expectancy but which imposes on everyone the challenge and the responsibility that this increase in life expectancy is accompanied by a more active and healthier ageing. This is a responsibility of all — and ours too — and that is why we are working here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now enter the second round, also cutting off the time left in the reply given by the Prime Minister to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Let us start with the PSD Parliamentary Group, as the Rules of Procedure command. Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Winter is approaching and, in fact, there is a situation of great concern, a perfect storm, the combination of COVID-19 with the flu virus and other respiratory viruses. The country, in fact, cannot close again — on this we agree — but we must do so. This depends heavily on the action of your Government, and I believe that we should also take advantage of this debate and these moments to correct paths in the context of combating the pandemic. One of the best tools we have in this fight is influenza vaccines and pneumonia vaccines. As for vaccines against pneumonia, there is no line on them in the Health Plan for the Autumn-Winter of the Directorate-General for Health. I strongly recommend that these vaccines be inserted into the plan. As for influenza vaccines, in fact, the government has been late in the external tendering process and, with this, we have been one of the least developed European countries: we have passed from 1 million to 2 million vaccines offered by the state and those vaccines that are available to the general public, through pharmacy, are limited to the 500 000 that we had last year, despite the brutal increase in demand. What is, in fact, incomprehensible — I think Mr Prime Minister will agree — is that more than 10 000 health professionals do not have access to the influenza vaccines that are made available by the State. Therefore, I ask you, Prime Minister, if you do not understand that these professionals should have access to the flu vaccines made available by the State. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u105	Mr President, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the Government informs that the answer to this question will be given by the Minister of Health, Marta Temido. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has acquired more than 2 million influenza vaccines. It has already made them available to residents in residential structures for the elderly and has made them available to the professionals of the National Health Service. Everyone knows that it is the obligation of employers, in the field of occupational health, to look after the risks of their employees as employers. This also applies to private sector professionals, with respect to their employers. So let us be clear about what we are talking about, what we are doing and be clear about how we are preparing for the autumn/winter plan. We are preparing - ensuring that we accommodate the responses to COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 and that all that is assistance activity that has been suspended, in Portugal as well as in other countries - which can be well ascertained by the ladies and gentlemen. Members consulting the World Health Organization, the European Commission and the European Observatory for Health Systems — is now recovered and carried out without further delay but without hidden agendas, recovering this activity within the National Health Service, believing in health professionals, giving them more means, in particular, those in the preparation and response plan and the additional activity that is now allowed to carry out, in additional activity, and which has a financial volume up to 33 million euros, that we will continue to combine with the use of other sectors, where necessary. This is, for example, the case of what happens in the area of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, specifically in the tests for COVID-19. I remind you, just as an example of the enormous preparation effort that was made by the Portuguese—not by the Ministry of Health, not by the Government, but by the Portuguese—the ability to pass from about 2500 daily tests, on average, in March, to more than 18,000 daily tests, on average, in October. I remind you of the ability to have more than 700 fans already distributed and operating in the SNS. I remind you of the immense capacity of hiring exceptional human resources and that it was only possible thanks to the effort that came from behind, which were previous choices, choices of a strong public service and a more robust and resilient National Health Service, without hidden agendas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u107	You have the floor again by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u108	Mr President, Minister, summarizing, and answering my question, health professionals who do not work in the SNS will not be entitled to the vaccine distributed by the State. This is a mistake because what should be used at the basis of the management of a pandemic, in my view, and that I believe to be a principle of public health and epidemiology, is the idea that the influenza virus is distributed equally among health professionals, whether they are in the public sector, in the private sector, or in the social sector, and we should use science and not ideology in the definition of public policies. [[PSD applause.]] I call for Mr. Prime Minister to be able to correct that. But since we are talking about health professionals, Mr. Prime Minister, we all recognize, and Mr. Prime Minister also said several times, that health professionals, especially during the state of emergency, when most Portuguese were at home, were on the front line. Many of those who are here called us heroes, the Portuguese hit the windows because they were there abdicating their personal lives, abdicating holidays, holidays, putting their lives at risk, putting their families at risk. As Mr Prime Minister said in this same debate, the Assembly of the Republic decides, the Government shall execute. And the Assembly of the Republic decided that there would be a premium for health professionals, a premium that would be a pay supplement and a holiday supplement. And what the Assembly of the Republic decided was that this award would be distributed in 2020. I know that Mr. Prime Minister agrees that these professionals, whom we are going to count on in this perfect storm which is the coming winter, must be rewarded. It's a symbolic gesture, nothing will pay what they did. Therefore, I ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is in October maturity or whether it is in November maturity that health professionals will receive the planned and approved supplement here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u109	In reply, you have the floor again on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, a due date this year, because that is what is legislated and that this House has determined. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u111	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u112	Mr President, Madam Minister, then remains the register. We don't know if it's October or November. We're waiting for it to be as soon as possible. There is another aspect, which the Minister of Health has mentioned several times, which has indeed failed with the surprise of the pandemic, with regard to intensive care. Mrs. Minister, in May, said that almost 400 beds of intensive care were missing, that had to be compensated this winter so that we could prevent avoidable deaths — 400 beds that have not yet appeared. Looking at the intensive care programme presented by the Government last August, hundreds of intensive care beds are in fact planned to be opened until the end of 2021. But it's not in the winter of 2021 that we need these beds, it's in the winter of 2020! It will certainly be a delay and therefore I ask the Prime Minister and the Government when, after all, they will open up the 400 beds of intensive care to prevent patients from being left out again and we can in fact prevent prevent prevent preventable deaths. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u113	You have the floor again, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, we both have a past of health professionals. Therefore, we know that fans are not necessarily beds. What we are committed to and what the country was below the European benchmarks was in the ability of fans in the National Health Service. There was the reinforcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u115	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u116	What we guarantee was that we would get closer to the reference point from which we separated at the beginning of this pandemic. What we have been able to do right now was to switch from 1142 fans to more 966 fans delivered in Portugal, 703 already installed. As for intensive care beds, nowadays, in modern philosophy, can be level II or level III beds, which can evolve according to the needs of response and, in particular, the human resources, teams, which are affected by them. So, what we're doing is strengthening the capacity of intensive medicine, knowing that it's easier to buy fans and harder to form intensiveists, especially when so many, for so many years, have aligned themselves to not increase access opportunities to specialized training.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u117	There he is! Well done! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u118	You have the floor for a request for clarification on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Prime Minister, strange as there had not yet been a narrative talking about the past and trying to give financial and economic lessons to the PSD. After what I have heard here repeatedly — said by yourself, by your bench and by others — I should start by asking you a sound question, a question to test your memory or, if you prefer, to make you wake up for the reality of what it is to rule in difficulty. In the last 25 years, how many years are the responsibility of the socialist governments? I say: 18! There are 18 years in 25. It is socialism that can only end, as if to end, in a weak figure! For 10 years, one government has taken us to the rescue for others to solve. I tell you, in front of witnesses of whom I was a minister and a minister, or was a minister, and now he is a Member: the 2010 Socialist Government. So don't talk to me about the past. It is said: whoever comes well with us, but whoever comes poorly with us too! On 4 September, the Government announced the establishment of rapid intervention brigades in residential structures for the elderly. The Minister of Labour and Social Security said that these brigades guarantee a ready response. At the end of September, the Social Security Institute confirmed that they would enter into operation at the beginning of October, but reported that they would have fewer than 63 people than the promised one, besides that they would be in the prevention intervention regime and that they would be made available by a temporary work firm. Doctors are not in presence condition or inability to perform a medical emergency by the brigades. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether you consider the number of scheduled brigades sufficient, if the 20 scheduled brigades are fully operational and if you consider it appropriate that doctors belong to temporary work enterprises and are not in a permanence regime. He is dying to the best of generations, the one who, without studies, brought up his children, the one who, without resources, helped to change and raise the country. They leave undisturbed, they leave without saying good - bye. In February this year there were 1551 inappropriately hospitalized users in hospitals of the national health system, an increase of more than 50 % compared to last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u120	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u121	That is why I ask you, Prime Minister: what are the goals of the government? What are the objectives of the government? We need to know and have your word, have an answer to the questions we ask. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u122	In reply, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as you know, since March, the government has taken priority to help and create extraordinary mechanisms to support the institutions to respond at the moment we live, particularly the homes. Clearly, we have, together, strengthened and set up extraordinary measures, from strengthening human resources to strengthening financial resources, to creating completely different measures to help, at the moment we live, the institutions to meet the great challenge we all face. With regard to the brigades that he referred to, in fact, we have identified the need to create brigades that were permanently available to intervene in the most critical situations of the homes. at this moment, we have 18 brigades created, with 443 people, including nurses, direct action assistants and also doctors, through the hiring that is made with the Portuguese Red Cross, with which the Social Security Institute celebrated a protocol. These brigades have now been activated 10 times since the start of their operation, with this great concern to help respond to critical stages of outbreaks. It was also launched this month a special telephone line dedicated only to homes, precisely to have a follow-up of the homes 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to help in all situations. In addition, it is currently running a program of home preventive screening tests, throughout the country, once again in collaboration with universities, to ensure that we also help in preventing, identifying and reducing risk spread. This program is being carried out in homes where there are most users. We are also, as you know, strengthening human resources within the framework of the special programme created and we already have over 8,000 people placed in institutions, precisely to help them in an extraordinary way, through the Social Adapter + Programme. We have also created a way of distributing and supporting the purchase of personal protective equipment, which has now covered 3000 entities. Our great concern, priority and focus is to work with the institutions to help them live such a difficult and demanding time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u125	Above all, thanking all those on the ground who have guaranteed to be supporting those who need 24 hours a day, seven days a week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u126	It is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to ask its questions. To that end, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u127	Mr President, Prime Minister, sometimes it is worth looking at other eyes too. Today's Le Monde newspaper has an entire page dedicated to Portugal with the following title, playing with the English expression Silicon Valley — The Florentine vale portuguese of the bicycle. And the entry of the article reads as follows: «The main European bicycle producer, Portugal benefits from the search explosion since spring. Manufacturers and subcontractors, concentrated in the Águeda region, are resisting Chinese competition thanks to the Brussels anti-dumping measures ». Then the page recalls several interesting things. First of all, which is not now, already last year we were the main producer in the European Union of these bicycles; a representative of the sector recalling that this sector has nothing to do with what was 25 years ago; another representative of the sector stressing the role of innovation in this evolution; a representative of the sector, at European level, saying that thanks to the European Union we have kept 900 small and medium-sized enterprises only in this sector and more than 110,000 jobs in Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, this reference allows us to think differently. First, there are clearly several business sectors in our country that know how to make a better economy, and this is important for having more and better employment, even for the sustainability of the social state, because private companies, private initiative and public service and social state are not contradictory. In fact, it is the historic task of the Socialist Party to combine private and public, for better defense of the common good. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another aspect mentioned in this text is the question of innovation. And we well know, by the numbers of the last few years, that when public investment pulls the car private investment also rises and when public investment falls private investment also.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u128	Why? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u129	And again, here, we need to combine private initiative with public investment. Another element mentioned here is the need for collaboration, cooperation, partnerships, what has at some point been called « clustering policy ». And, Prime Minister, looking at history, here is one thing to say: in the political evolution of our country, more than once, this policy was interrupted only by change of government. And that is a lesson we must learn — we must have strategic visions, we must have medium and long-term visions that are not at the mercy of electoral cycles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u131	And the example of the Águeda bikes—and I say this with great pride, because that is my district— also has another very important element: in a time of hyperglobalization, no country can be alone. We are in the region of the world which is the most progressive region, is the region where values are more in line with our efforts to build a decent society, with our efforts to promote decent work. And if the European Union learned something from the mistakes it made in the previous crisis, this is also due to the example of Portugal, which showed that there was another way and that this path results more than the path of austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, what we need to know is that everyone has learned the lesson, because when some continue to diabolize the increase in national minimum wage, it is legitimate to ask: have all understood the lesson? Some continue to realize that the great global recession, which followed the global financial crisis of the past decade, was a little thing that happened here in Portugal. It is that some continue to speak as if the great worldwide recession had been caused by Portugal, this fantastic country which, as it gave new worlds to the world, also caused the great worldwide recession... It is worth considering if all have learned the lesson from past crises and wrong policies. But this allows me, Mr Prime Minister, to ask you two questions. One, of general policy, is the following: are we in a position to learn that democratic politics is, at the same time, cooperation and competition, different ideas, but capable of drawing a path to the country? The second question, in terms of more sectoral policy, is a history, in our country, in investment, in qualification, in science, in knowledge, in the qualification of people, in the qualification of organizations, in the qualification of territories: how will we continue this bet to overcome, once again, this challenge, this political and social crusade in which the country is located? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u132	In reply, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u133	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, thank you very much for your questions. The history that Mr Deputy began to tell in his speech is an exemplary history, the history of Portugal as a country producing bicycles in a region where knowledge, experience is concentrated, but where innovation and qualifications have been combined in recent years to convert one of the most traditional and most basic products of human mobility into an innovative, highly exportable and oriented product for international markets. It is true that Portugal is the largest bicycle producer in Europe, but does not just produce bicycles. Our bicycles included new elements such as electric mobility, such as the management of shared-use bicycle networks, with the incorporation of digital technologies. This is because industrial capacity is combined with increasing qualifications of our population and also the ability to incorporate knowledge, which translates into value that reaches the market of our industrial customers. The history of Águeda is particularly impressive because, in fact, soft mobility, nowadays, is experiencing increased demand in the world markets. But what happened in Águeda with the bicycles, in fact, is going through the whole industry and the whole Portuguese economy. The excellence of our industrial producers, the excellence of our capabilities in network management, our capabilities in engineering, our capacity in the production of industrial machinery and equipment and production technologies, combining equipment with digitization, all supported by a scientifically and technological system that is frankly innovative and internationally recognized, has today been the symbol of its international excellence. It was announced today that Hanover Messe, the largest world trade fair in industry, that all industry decision makers visit annually to make their investment decisions, to contact the most sophisticated suppliers, to be able to identify the trends of the future industry, selected Portugal to be the partner country in its edition of 2022. It is not enough to point out the importance that this news has for our industries, for our engineering, for our workers, but to point out how to bring the excellence of our industrial capacity to the first most important, most visible stage of the world industry. over the next year, Portugal, together with Hanover Messe, will be spreading around the world what are the capabilities of our companies and will therefore help Portugal to grow in what has been a very important movement in the last five years: more and more exports, more and more exports of more complex products, because they incorporate knowledge and innovation. And this news is all the more important and all the more symbolic — and it is better for you to address the issues you have raised in your intervention — when the issue of reindustrialization arises in Europe, the capacity that Europe has to overcome to depend on suppliers of critical components or critical products from other regions of the world and to approach the large consumption centre, the big world market that is the European Union, which is the capacity to produce these critical resources. We affirm the excellence of national production in this context is maximizing the opportunities for attracting investment and improving our exports. But I will say more: not only do we have the existing capacities, which can benefit from this great opportunity of external promotion, but we also now have very important resources to improve what our international specialization is to grow in the value chain. The resources which the Next Generation EU program makes available to our companies and which, in the case of the plan we are outlining, and which we have put into public discussion, mobilizes very important resources for adapting our industry and our companies to the challenges of the future, will allow precisely to support projects that are able to mobilize the best knowledge that exists in our scientific and technological system and in our companies around this idea of growth, to add more complexity and value to what we do. And this great opportunity to invest in our qualifications, in adapting our companies to a more digital world, in improving products and processes of what national producers put on the international market is an initiative that cannot be overcome. Cooperation between national producers, which, in regions or around sectors, are able to assert their own competences, deepen them and develop them in competition with external producers, is the path that we have just drawn and that we have to accelerate. And qualification and innovation are absolutely crucial. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u134	The Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party continues to use the word. To request clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u135	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, I would like to confront the House with the responsibility that, at the moment we live, it is up to us, which is our responsibility for this country, which is up to businesses and citizens, which is up to the political decision-makers, who are responsible for it. We live a picture for many never before imagined. We live in a situation that has economic and social repercussions. But this time we also have the resources to deal with the framework we live in. In fact, what has been the negotiation between the countries of the European Union, especially the negotiation of Portugal and a large block of countries, which have fought hard for the existence of these resources, means that in the coming years we will have a availability of something like EUR 6, EUR 4 billion / year to implement public policies that respond to the needs of the country. And these public policies, with such availability of resources, are not policies that build, uniquely and exclusively, on one side and on the other side of the barricade. It is true that there are more priorities on the left, such as the social state and public services, and that the next investment programmes of the State should understand them. But there are also concerns often reflected more on the right, such as the economy and businesses, which must also be contained in this global discussion. It is true that this is the historical dimension of the Socialist Party, to bring together the concerns that are now more to the right, now more to the left, as concerns of a country and as answers to the problems of a country. And if these answers depend on the State, it cannot be himself the difficulty in providing the answer. And when the excessive bureaucracy is often announced, the difficulties of hiring, we must be aware that the State must be the first one responsible for providing the political response, in terms of public policy, in what is the country's needs. Well, if we need to be lighter, at the same time we need to be more transparent, because transparency cannot be compatible with the many smoke curtains that are often created by excessive bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u136	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u137	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group that we will announce to this House of the Republic the establishment of a mechanism for assessing the implementation of public funds. We do so in the name of the transparency that Portugal deserves and demands. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u138	To reply, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u139	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, I believe that the suggestion he has made and that he has left Parliament is a suggestion that the government can only welcome with good eyes. We have very intense mechanisms to monitor the regularity of the implementation of Community funds, either in decisions on the allocation and approval of projects, or then in the approval of payments and subsequent control, either by national or European authorities. over 30 years, Portugal has had an excellent record, either in the very low number of frauds in access to these funds, or also in the ability of the good to apply in tangible things in improving the living conditions of the Portuguese and the productivity of our companies. When we have access to the most important resources, which we have not yet had at our disposal, it is essential that we always know how to be able to account, in a more visible way for the common citizen, how we are making decisions and how we apply these resources. It is also important that the regulatory and legislative framework in which the State acts as a trust manager of the resources that Europe makes available to our country, our citizens and our businesses can be absolutely demanding. To that end, we need, of course, a regulation which, as has been claimed by our companies, has simpler governance mechanisms, less formalist and more disbursed, thus does not prejudice the decisions that must be made and the way we support our society, but which at the same time also allow to effectively implement these resources. Portugal has an excellent level of implementation of PT 2020 resources in the current European Community framework. We are from the European countries with the highest level of implementation of the financial packages and, among the countries with the greatest resources, we are second in the implementation. Nevertheless, Mr President, we have only almost 50 % of the amounts actually paid. Our implementation levels require simpler rules to reconcile efficiency and transparency with the ability to better implement these funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u140	It is now the time of the Left Block Parliamentary Group to ask its questions. To that end, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u141	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in response to the pandemic we choose to defend people in access to essential goods and services. People were protected against cuts in water services, electricity, natural gas and electronic communications. To whom the pandemic has brought loss of income we guarantee that there would be no deprivation in access to these essential goods and services. However, this cut-off ban only lasted until the end of September. The ban on the interruption of supply of electricity, natural gas and liquefied oil gas ended last Thursday and, currently, companies can cut off the supply of water and energy to all customers who do not settle their debts or are unable to support the payment plan of the debt accumulated during the suspension of cuts between April and September. A few days ago, the President of Caritas warned of the rapid increase in aid applications received in that institution specifically by such situations. According to Eugénio Fonseca, there are more and more people in a state of unemployment, in a Layoff regime or immigrants asking for help in paying the household income or the accounts of water and light. The resumption of activity after confinement has left out many of these people, who have not yet been able to find a job and a source of income. So the question is this: what can we do for them? Does it make sense to remove this protection from families now and allow it to be possible again to cut off these essential goods? In our opinion, no. It is a fact that the suspension of cuts has ended, Parliament has not extended it and the budgetary procedure is expected to be an impediment to any success in parliamentary activity. I therefore ask the Government whether you are now in a position to take an early decision and whether you want to do so. Will the government take this urgent step in protecting families? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u142	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u143	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, at the different stages of this pandemic, which will certainly last a long time, we have responded according to the needs of each moment. The first answers were, of course, those of the emergency. No one knew whether the epidemic lasted three months or six months, which would be the ability of companies to support jobs, which would be the resistance of families to bear the impact of loss of income and therefore it was necessary to take a set of measures in the area of emergency. Today, I think, unfortunately, we have a clear picture of the future. Surely, we are going to have a pandemic for a long time ahead of us and, up until then, we are going to experience enormous inconveniences to face the economic and social crises that it brought. So we need to focus on a strategy that goes to the root of the problem and does not limit itself to lateralizing it. It is clear that there are situations where moratoriums are imposed and situations where, in order to ensure liquidity, credit lines are required, but what is absolutely fundamental at this stage, in order to get to the root of the problem, is to support companies to protect employment and support families in their income, whether those who are working suffer a loss in their income because they are in line with layoffs, those who, by losing their jobs, cannot lose their income. This is absolutely central, in the same way that, more than credit lines or new moratoriums, we need to ensure the capitalisation of companies so that they can withstand this crisis situation. We have a general law that protects everyone about essential services, but where we have to focus on income is even. That is why I hope that in the State budget for 2021 we will succeed in adopting a proposal, in which we have also come to work with the Left Block, with a view to creating a new social benefit that complements traditional social benefits and income losses for the most diverse situations, so as to ensure that no one is unable to support and sustain their services and to ensure access to essential services. This must be the priority, and I am very hopeful that the 2021 budget will be approved in the Assembly of the Republic, allowing these conditions to be created. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u144	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares continued to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you very much for the answer, but we have a problem that cannot wait for January next year and therefore cannot wait for a State budget which still needs to be discussed in the House. It is that, at the end of the month, these families can see that these essential goods and services have been cut off. That is why I am going to talk about the urgency of the days that are coming and which also deserve an early and very short-term response. A first theme is on the Statute of the Informal Caregiver. As you know, I believe, yesterday was the European Day of Informatics Caregivers, and that leaves no one in this Chamber indifferent. It is estimated that 800 000 in Portugal and we have identified the problem that they did not have the status why they fought or the protection that was due them. However, the Statute of the Informal Caregiver was approved at the end of 2019. Its implementation and regulation, in the various aspects, was planned from January 2020, but it has spent almost a year and we have nothing. More: of the 250 000 full - time caregivers, up to today only 300 — I repeat, only 300 of 250 000 — had access to the Statute. Of these, how many were able to access the caregiver's allowance? Only 32. However, in the State budget for 2020, the Government provided a fund of EUR 38 million for this support to the caregiver. Only 32 people had access and we are already in October. Mr. Prime Minister, we should take care of those who care and who often have no money to pay the bills all at the end of the month. Why are you delaying what should already be agreed? Another issue for us too is that of extraordinary support for workers without social protection, which, in order to respond to today's emergencies, should have already been implemented. This disprotection is a problem that we all see and this new extraordinary social support for workers without social protection, which has been approved despite some resistance from the government, should reach tens of thousands. It was approved in July and should last until December, but is late. Only in mid-September did they open the applications and today, in October, just over two months after the end of this support, no one is receiving it. Another form of protection was what we agreed together: the reduction to half of the guaranteed periods of access to unemployment benefit. We wanted to go further, but the Government and the Socialist Party said they only accepted a reduction for those who had lost their jobs during the state of emergency. But this was in March, it ended in April, we are in October and no one has yet access to this support on this way. Why is this answer taking so long that it is essential for today, for the days that run? Also in the State Budget for 2020, the Government agreed with the Left Block that it would study how to access the reform of people with disabilities. They did not accept our proposals and at that time it was the basis of possible understanding. We are reaching the end of the year and the pandemic has brought more urgency to this measure, but we do not see it being implemented. When's it gonna be? When are we going to protect people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u146	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u147	Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that tomorrow we are going to discuss a proposal, which could have already been decided, concerning the protection of shift workers, which are increasingly in our country. I wonder if the government will also want to follow us on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u148	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u149	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, as you know, this year we had two factors that greatly conditioned the implementation of the Budget. Firstly, the Budget began to be implemented in April and not January, as usual; secondly, it began to be executed when we were already in a pandemic and, indeed, the pressure on many sectors, particularly in the area of social security, had to concentrate very much on combating the pandemic. Anyway, in June, the pilot project related to informal caregivers started in 30 municipalities. 1912 requests were received, of which 316 are already deferred and therefore we are starting with the pilot project. Would we like to make it sooner? Yeah. If we had had budget earlier and we had not had a pandemic, we would surely be in a different situation today. Things are the way they are. We were certainly not counting on this when we approved the Budget, but we are responding and, above all, moving forward. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u150	It is now the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to ask its questions. To that end, Mr João Oliveira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, the question I would like to ask you has to do with public investment, not only because of the central role and importance it has in the development and economic and social growth of our country, particularly at a time of economic and social difficulties such as what we are going through, but also because the evolution of public investment has not been itself encouraging and reassuring. In fact, there must be other options on the part of the Government regarding public investment, and I would like to say that there must be other options not on the inclusion of public investment, but on the implementation and implementation of the measures envisaged. In the last four years, public investment has reached the lowest levels of memory between 1, 5 % and 1, 9 % of GDP, and the latest data of August do not seem to point to a very different situation. In fact, they raise some concern, since at this rate the public investment will be about EUR 1000 million below the budgeted and even below the public investment carried out in 2019. Despite the reinforcement in the Supplementary Budget, nor will the Initial Budget be fulfilled in terms of the implementation of public investment, and this is a problem, which is cyclical, it goes on to repeat itself, because, despite the inclusion of funds in the State Budget, it is announced a lot, but sometimes it does not come true. There are some investments that don't even get out of paper. The most obvious cases are the three hospitals which, almost five years ago, have been successively registered in the State Budget : the Eastern Lisbon hospital, the Sixal hospital and perhaps the most absurd case of all, the central hospital of Alentejo, whose work, having the project ready, has been successively entered in the State Budgets, having already a company in conditions to be selected and to whom the work can be awarded, does not happen, and we run the risk of the proposal itself losing its validity and we have to repeat the competition. These are three of the most flagrant examples of investments that are lost and that are to be executed. But Mr Prime Minister, the commitment to economic growth, the ability to respond to the economic and social problems that the country has, the capacity we have in the country to take advantage of the productive potentials and to transform into real levers of the economic and social response that the country needs, requires that public investment have, in fact, the role it has to play, especially from the point of view of its implementation and implementation. And we are talking about the investment in the most diverse areas, seeking to respond to the most diverse needs in the country: the investment in the creation of vacancies in creases in a public network, the investment in the creation of vacancies in a public network of elderly households, with the essential role that social security should and may have in this response, in the creation of vacancies, in particular in relation to the day care centres, seeking to complement the response and advances that must also be made in relation to the freeness of day care. But we are also talking about investment to ensure the internalization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy in the National Health Service, to avoid the use of private persons and to provide response capacity within the National Health Service ; to strengthen the funding of the PART (Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction) in relation to transport and to improve public transport and the capacity to strengthen supply in public transport; to invest, absolutely essential, in the National Medicine Laboratory, which needs an investment budget capable of responding to the demands of the role being requested. We also talk about investment in schools, not only with the completion of the works of the School Park, but also with the launch of the construction of new school equipment where there is this need; of investment, for example, in the recovery of historical, architectural and archaeological heritage, and investment in artistic creation. There are multiple needs and multiple circumstances in which public investment effectively plays a central role, not only in responding to the needs of our economy, but in the ability to develop the country from public investment. And the concrete question I would like to leave you, Prime Minister, is to know to what extent and how the Government undertakes the commitment to transform the ads into effectively implemented investment, so that we can look at this problem in another way. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u153	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, the question is very timely because, as I said, the great problem in the execution of public investment has nothing to do with budgeting. this year, we increased by 14 % the funds planned for investment. For the next year's budget, we have designed an increase of 22 % in public investment funding. In addition, we now have the opportunity to receive a significant amount of financial resources made available by the European Union to increase public investment. However, we need to create conditions for the construction industry, which was completely destroyed in the previous crisis, to have the capacity to respond and to have the administrative legal conditions so that, without the sacrifice of transparency and rigour, public investment can proceed. He told me about the hospitals. Last day, the project for the construction of the Sixal hospital was awarded. Do you know when you opened the contest for the development of the Seixal hospital project? The competition opened in July 2018. From July 2018 until September 2020 the entire process between its launch and the award of the project was completed. [[Congrats from PS Porfirio Silva.]] He told me about the central hospital of Alentejo. We have been together in various stages of launching this process. It is finally now in a position to proceed with the award of the contract so that the work can be started. But we've been starting this process for years! The same applies to the hospital in Algarve, whose work is also in a position to be awarded. As for Sintra hospital, the launch of the contest for the project began in September 2017 — September 2017! The preparation and review ended in September of this year and only now will we be in a position, after the project review, to launch the contest for the performance of the project. This is the reality. And if you talk to any camera president, your comrade or other other other than your comrade, the description they're going to make to you will be very similar to what I'm doing to you. So the country has to decide. I am no longer talking about particularly pathological cases, as is the case with the Eastern Lisbon hospital. I do not forget that on August 1, 2007, I took possession as President of the City Council of Lisbon, a chamber that the right had failed,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... and that this year we paid the Christmas allowance of the workers of the City Hall of Lisbon with the sale to the state of the land for the construction of this hospital. The state bought the land in 2007! I, as President of the Chamber, have already been there twice to put first stones and still now the Ministry of Finance asked for another year to appreciate all the complaints of the competitors, to respond and then trigger the new phases, so that, when much, from a year to a year, the work could start! Mr President, we can well budget, but as long as we have this legal framework on hiring effectively it will be very difficult to fulfil and significantly increase public investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u154	Mr João Oliveira also has a few seconds. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, we do not doubt that the Public Procurement Code may constitute an obstacle, but in many circumstances there is an objective problem of political decision. I could repeat to you the examples of schools that are waiting for money that in the budget of the Ministry of Education are fiendish things and that are works that do not take away due to lack of funds from the government. Therefore, it is also necessary to take into account the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u156	Would you like to conclude, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u157	I have a brief question to ask you, but I will further brief you, Prime Minister. I still wanted to leave this question to you. Unemployment benefit, guarantee of extraordinary social support to those who do not have access to social benefits of a contributing nature, extension and strengthening of social benefits for inclusion are some of the proposals that the CFP has presented, and in which we have insisted, seeking to respond to immediate and urgent problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u158	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u159	Some of these proposals have been discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic, in particular the proposal on unemployment benefit. I would like to hear Mr Prime Minister's reply to the fact that in a particularly difficult social situation, such as the one we are going through, this set of proposals deserves from the Government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u160	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u161	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, it is true, and, as you know, we are planning in the Recovery and Resilience Programme to strengthen and create conditions for investment in day care centres and households, either by the third sector, or by public entities that can do so. We will strengthen in the State budget, as we have done in the Supplementary Budget, the financing for the PART, to maintain a good policy of ethics in access to public transport and we will continue to make this investment effort. As regards the need to respond to social problems, as you know, we have to establish a proper equation between the new social benefit, which ensures the protection to those in need, and makes it compatible with the benefits of a contributing nature, as is the case with unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u162	You must conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u163	I shall now conclude, Mr President. This is what we need to assess together and approve together in the State Budget for 2021. I count on your encouragement, support and collaboration to approve these measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u164	It is now up to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to ask its questions. To that end, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Prime Minister, I cannot help telling you that I was very surprised now because I realized, by the reply you gave to the previous Member, that apparently in the last five years of governance, there were no captivating. After all, what was in Portugal was a huge problem of public procurement and, therefore, there has never been any seizures on public investment, there has never been a willingness to control budgetary implementation by contracting public investment. Five years later, we all came to the conclusion that, after all, what there was — imagine! — it was a huge problem or a public contract or, who knows, even with the Court of Auditors! Mr. Prime Minister, if this wasn't so serious I would have up to your comical side. In fact, your creativity in these things can always surprise me. Really, who would say that the debate on captivating would have to end in public procurement! But, Prime Minister, we are now delivering the proposal for a State Budget and we already understand one thing: in this Budget there will be no measures which, cross-borderly, foresees a reduction in taxes, either for all people or for all businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u166	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u167	That measure will not exist. And since the objective is the revival of the economy, I can then infer that your idea of relaunching and encouraging the economy is that of public investment, doing public works and hiring public officials.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u168	It's the usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u169	For those Portuguese who work on the private initiative, on their own or on behalf of others, or who have no contracts with the State, what Mr. Prime Minister has to say to them is: "Or they continue to pay your tax accounts exactly as always, or then come to work for the state! » This is the choice that is placed on the table. I would like to know whether this is the case or whether it is different. By the way, I would also like to speak to you about a study commissioned by the CIP-Business Confederation of Portugal — it is about tax burden, but in fact it is about parafiscal charge — about charges. This study concluded that only looking at a part of the Public Administration could identify 3,500 fees charged by only 25 public entities and 800 by 10 regulators. In fact, there is a public institute, APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) which charges 629 fees alone. Among many problems identified here, it is even said in ignorance, by some entities, of the fees charged by you. It seems true, because the Minister of the Environment, when confronted with the fees charged by the Portuguese Environment Agency, is the same as saying 'well, I do not know exactly whether or not this number of fees exists'. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, the CDS proposed in 2016 that it should be made and published a survey of all fees charged by all public services in Portugal, so that one could perceive what its consideration was, and that in cases where it did not correspond to equal consideration or consideration these rates would be eliminated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u170	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u171	Of course, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, at the time the first part was approved, but it was never accomplished, this uprising was never done. The second part, of course, never happened. I want to know if this is what we're going to start having a minimum of fairness in charging fees. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u172	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u173	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, although she is surprised by my imagination, but unfortunately, I am surprised by her lack of memory, because, having integrated a government that made a brutal increase in taxes, now to talk about tax burden and tax increase, when we are experiencing the biggest economic and social crisis that the country has ever experienced,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] ...you have to agree that it is necessary, finally...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u174	Lack of imagination!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u175	Lack of imagination! Very well said! This is an example of good cooperation, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u176	This one's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u177	We're going away together! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u178	I even got excited! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u179	Mrs Deputy, unfortunately, the big difference is this: with the Government which the honourable Member has incorporated, there has been a brutal increase in taxes, with the governments that have governed the country since November 2015 the reduction that the Portuguese pay for IRS is more than EUR 1000 million. That's the difference. The honourable Member, for many years, has been clamoring against the increase in the tax burden, which, as you know, was essentially explained by the large increase in contributions to social security due to the fact that there is strong employment growth and strong income growth. Unfortunately for all of us, this year we will regret a reduction in the tax burden, because the brutal increase in the unemployment we are experiencing and the breakdown of income we are suffering will surely result in a great decrease in the contributions to social security. And so, Mrs Deputy, the reduction in the tax burden will not be a reason to celebrate, it will be a reason for us to be redoublely concerned about what is happening to Portuguese employment and income. That is why we must concentrate our priority on supporting businesses and families, protecting their income and protecting employment. This must be the priority, and for that, public investment is absolutely essential. Yes, support for social employment through IPSS, mercy and mutuality is absolutely vital! Yes, strengthening caregivers in homes is essential! Yes, strengthening operational assistants in our schools, in our hospitals, in our health centers is essential to meet effective needs! More, Mrs. Member, the tax effort we are going to make to reduce taxes is the one that has been approved here in a socially just, environmentally responsible and financially sustainable way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u180	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u181	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the fiscal effort we are going to make to reduce taxes is the one that has been approved here, in a socially just, environmentally responsible and financially sustainable way, and that it imposes on us a difficult negotiation with the European Commission, but which has assured us that we can actually reduce VAT on electricity, which covers both families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u182	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u183	But it is also to support the economy that we will return the VAT that people will pay in the purchase of crop goods, in the restoration or in the accommodation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u184	Mr. Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u185	... because, in this case, we will support the income of families and we will also support these sectors of activity — culture, tourism and restoration — so badly affected by this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u186	You now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u187	Mr President, Prime Minister, during the health crisis, 9 % of the people who had already taken anxiolytic and antidepressant medication in Portugal increased their dosage ; 14 % started taking this medication during this period. The outbreaks in the homes reflect, in particular, how vulnerable and exposed our elderly are, still without guarantee of follow-up by a significant person. Caring and protecting cannot mean voting for isolation. Elderly, families and caregivers must have guaranteed physical and psychological health responses. If, on the one hand, it is important to strengthen psychological health care in a hospital context, it is also necessary to respond to emergency situations in mental health in the community. Hospital services are asking for help for this. But in Portugal, Mr. Prime Minister, the emergency response in mental health is only guaranteed in four districts: Porto, Coimbra, Lisbon and Faro. It must be ensured throughout the country and therefore it is essential to strengthen this service of INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ), along with all the others that this structure needs. So, Prime Minister, we ask : is it available to strengthen INEM teams, particularly in the mental health emergency? And how does the Government intend to guarantee and safeguard the rights of our elderly while giving them the necessary protection? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u188	You have the floor to answer, on behalf of the Government, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u189	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, few areas of care have had over the past few months the care and the great effort that we have earned the area of mental health, particularly in the development of new responses. over the last few months, as it is known, not only was the psychological care line created — today institutionalized within the SNS 24 and which aims to give a direct response to professionals and people who need psychological counseling –, as well as it was also ensured that this line did not leave the people lost in the vacuum and sent them to health services. at the same time, the INEM continued to do its work and was guaranteed the articulation between these two structures. But we did not stop around here and continued to develop other kinds of answers. Last week, an order was signed between the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Health which allowed the community mental health teams to be on the ground. In terms of « pilot », they will operate with each local health unit and will enable community mental health to be developed, ensuring alignment with a new paradigm of care activity in this area, which ensures proximity care, without undermining the specialization of this activity. Work with psychologists, work with other health technicians working in the area of mental illness has been guaranteed through various initiatives, namely: we continue to pursue the objectives that will lead to the hiring of 40 psychologists to strengthen primary health care and we will also continue the commitment to the implementation of mental health reform, a political priority that we define. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u190	Again you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u191	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, regarding mental health, I would just like to say that, in fact, there is a long way to go to regain lost time. We would like to bring here another subject. In recent days, images have come to the public from a reality for which the NAP has been warning: cruelty in the transport of live animals by sea, from Portugal. In fact, I've got a picture here that well illustrates that. The speaker showed a picture of a running animal. in a brief description, what happens inside these ships is a real terror: piled animals, some injured, other patients, in agony, transformed and treated all day as genuine merchandise. This, without forgetting, Mr Prime Minister, which, in this context, are also workers. After the disclosure of these images, the government cannot continue to sweep beneath the carpet a reality that should shame us. Mr. Prime Minister, these animals are also part of the sensitive beings we recognized in our Civil Code in 2017. Therefore, either the government is sensitive to welfare and animal protection or it is consistent with this reality. The two things at the same time are not possible! There are, in fact, urgent measures to be taken, from the end of the long-distance transport of live animals to ensure the presence of veterinary doctors on board and to strengthen the means for inspection activity. Mr. Prime Minister, what we'd like to know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u192	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u193	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister, the images we have spoken of show that, once again, Portugal violates Community legislation on animal welfare in the transport of live animals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u194	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u195	... and we would like to know if the government is available to visit this activity, in order to ensure protection and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u196	In reply, on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u197	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, this matter has deserved the best attention from the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs ( DGAV ), which has carefully monitored these vessels as a whole. From 2015 to this date, the following has been recorded: 41 notifications to shipowners for immediate corrections or for improvement in the case of low gravity situations; 18 notifications to operators for immediate corrections or for improvement in the case of low seriousness situations; 3 vessels prohibited from carrying animals in Portugal until the complete resolution of the observed infringements; 2 ships with suspended livestock vessel approval certificates; and 1 cattle vessel with withdrawal from the certificate of approval and inhibition of the right to request again the certification of that vessel.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u198	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u199	This is the set of measures that DGAV has taken in order to preserve the rights of animals in these transport conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u200	We now turn to the questions put by the Greens Ecological Party, to what Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u201	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at the end of last legislative session, the Minister of Agriculture announced that pet animals would no longer be under the leadership of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, moving to the Ministry of the Environment. Quick response and without great weight—we say! — the fateful fire in Santo Tirso, where more than seven dozen animals died in illegal shelters. This decision was justified by almost 2, 750 million registered pet animals, « a large number » who must be treated « independent », and with the need of DGAV to focus on the well-being of production animals, « supplying food systems ». In this regard, let me open a parenthesis to remind you that this is a perspective that leaves a fundamental issue outside, that animal protection is largely passed by the protection of its habitats and ecosystems, natural and semi-natural spaces. Therefore, the Greens do not understand the government's claims regarding lithium or intensive agriculture, which are a real attack on many of these animals and which may even push some of the native species into extinction. But even though the Minister of Environment and Climate Action receives more of this responsibility for open arms, the entities that intervene in this area quickly voted against this amendment. Now, the Federation of Veterinaries of Europe and the World Organisation for Animal Health also discourage this path. Thus, Prime Minister, it will still be time to reconsider this decision, until any day the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action will be a superministerial that protects all areas, but that will not have the ability to respond or control anything. Will you reconsider that transfer, Prime Minister? Another question: in the third week of the school year, we continue to witness the difficulty that many school communities face with the lack of operational assistants. It is not today that the ratios do not meet the needs and if, before the pandemic, there were no 5000, and the government announced the hiring of 1500, they still lack 3,500, adding, of course, the needs that the pandemic brought. Operational assistants are essential—I think we all agree—to ensure the opening up of many school spaces. They guarantee the hygiene of spaces and that students comply with the rules of hygiene and physical distance. They guarantee everyone's access to education, especially from the perspective of inclusive education. Therefore, what I ask you is whether it is planned to hire more operational assistants to strengthen the real needs of schools, to replace operational assistants who are sick,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u202	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u203	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, what I am asking you is whether more operational assistants are scheduled to be hired to strengthen the real needs of schools, to replace operational assistants who are sick, who are at risk patients or who are fulfilling quarantines, due to cases that are emerging, and more if the funds to municipalities are strengthened so that they can also meet needs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u204	To reply, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Environment and Climate Action, João Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u205	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, there is in fact a very clear intention to improve the living conditions of pets and to be more demanding with their well-being, ensuring that the law is complied with, that we are able to reduce the number of animals kept and that we are able to offer good living conditions to these animal species. That is why the Ministry of the Environment has led to this change in political responsibility for pets, which has not yet been implemented. What we intend to do before the end of the year, to enter into force at the beginning of the next year, is, in fact, to amend the organic law of the IUCF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas) so that this competence is within the IUCF, and to create the place of supplier of the animal, in fact, as foreseen in the Government Programme since the first day. This animal provider will not only have responsibility for pets. In particular, and in addition, with all due respect, the answer given to the question of the NAP, I will say that also here, Mr. Provider of the Animal will perform functions. In addition, it is essential to transfer new competences to the authorities in this area. We know that the previous diploma has not passed, but the one we anticipate is different, because it is even focused on pets, valuing, and much, the role of municipal veterinarians. Madam Member, do not have the slightest doubt about one thing: whoever cares for animal health is the veterinarians and, if there is anything that this pandemic has taught us, it was the relationship between human health, animal health and environmental health. Now, being a veterinarian is not being a veterinarian of DGAV, it is being a veterinarian. On that, we have no doubt. It is absolutely essential that we may have conditions, perhaps better than those that existed in the past, so that the veterinarians, especially the municipal veterinarians and those who, eventually, the ICNF will have to work with you, can assume this central function and of the greatest importance, which is that of the welfare of pets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u206	The Government still has time to intervene, and to continue its reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u207	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Silva, with regard to operational assistants in schools, has already issued the publication for the hiring of more than 1500 operational assistants and is in the process of completing the portfolio relating to the ratios, which had to be defined. A very important criterion for children with special educational needs is that instead of counting the weighting of 1.5, it will count the weighting of 2, which will therefore significantly increase the number of operational assistants needed to accompany children with special educational needs. My conviction is that once the negotiating framework for the next 2021 budget is stabilized, we will be in a position next week to publish the new portfolio of the ratios in accordance with what is based on the State budget for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u208	You now have the floor of Mr Ventura, Mr Ventura, from arrive, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, Prime Minister, we will have no less taxes, I have already said so here. We're probably going to have less tax revenue, not because the government wanted to have less tax burden, but because there's less tax contribution. And we will also have a very clear lack of support for the most affected sectors, because they see as a large measure the return of VAT on local restoration and accommodation. In the middle of this, the government promises EUR 1250 million for public housing. Mr. Prime Minister, what public housing? For the same old ones, who have been without paying taxes for the last few years? Or finally, for the middle class, who paid and supported this country over the last few years? Promise a new social benefit, but to whom? Who did he contribute to? Who paid the taxes in this country for? Or to those of you who are always sitting and holding an extended hand, so that the State will now continue to sustain them?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u210	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u211	Mr President, Mr Andre Ventura, first of all, I believe that, a little while ago, he was distracted. There will be a reduction in electricity VAT for all families and businesses, in an environmentally responsible, financially sustainable and socially just way. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u212	There will be, precisely to support the sectors most affected by the crisis — restoration, housing, culture — a return of VAT to consumers buying products in these sectors of activity. So, yeah, there's gonna be that kind of investment. As for housing, you know our housing strategy, which is to respond to the various needs. We must respond to the needs of social housing. There are 26 000 families in Portugal who do not live in decent conditions and that is an indignity for all of us. A country that wants to be decent must ensure housing is commensurate with all families. But today, the reality of housing in Portugal is a much more complex reality, which requires public responses, not only for social housing, as in the past and today, but also for the needs of the middle class, in particular the need for new generations to have access to housing, in accessible conditions. That is why our new generation of housing policies not only invests in social housing, but also in housing and renting in accessible conditions, to correct the market failures that the tragic « law Cristos » introduced into the lease market in Portugal. That is what we are going to do, and for that we will resort both to national resource mechanisms, to private investment mobilization, and to the resources that the Recovery and Resilience Plan provides to our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u213	Mr Ventura still has a few seconds to intervene, although the government no longer has time to respond. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u214	Mr President, it is a very quick question, because the government no longer has time to answer. The Minister for Economic Affairs said in March that he was doing everything possible to reduce the public sector's debts to businesses. For, in June, in the last estimate we have, there was an increase of EUR 64 million in this debt to companies. Mr. Prime Minister, there are no miracles! We can't ask them to pay more and more taxes, ask them to support the social state, ask them to pay for these 26,000 families who need decent housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u215	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u216	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we cannot ask for everything and, when it comes to having debts to businesses, we cannot pay them what they owe them. It's not what they deserve, it's what we owe them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u217	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u218	So if your government can't respond to the problem of debts to companies, it won't answer either. [[Right now, the speaker coughed.]] My heart is great, Prime Minister, don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u219	You now have the floor to ask your questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, I have only half a minute liberal, so I will not ask any questions about the Court of Auditors. He will be very pleased with this, but I am giving him a suggestion: it might not be wrong to warn the candidates of these public positions, where there is understanding between the Government and the President of the Republic, so they know exactly what they are applying for. Or, better still, if these understandings are very good, perhaps the law should be changed to limit mandates. I bring another, shorter, but more dramatic issue that the government could have already resolved and not solved. I just got to know, while I was here in the plenary, another message from a pregnant woman who gave birth yesterday without being able to be accompanied. Once again, that happened. Every day, they are born in Portugal, 250 babies. Five days ago, a resolution was adopted in this House to provide new guidance to DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ) in order to allow for the entry of accompanying pregnant women. How many days will the government take to give this instruction to DGS so that this moment, which should be of happiness, does not turn into a skull for mothers? How many days will it take the government to give this instruction?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u221	You have the word, to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health, Martha Fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u222	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, the direction of the Directorate-General for Health is very clear. What the Directorate-General for Health says is that pregnant women have the right to accompany during delivery. The orientation is very clear. What we have realized about reality is that, many times, this orientation is not being understood. Therefore, a clarification is under way, which will still come out this week and which makes clear the direction of the Directorate-General for Health. Pregnant women are entitled to follow up. Only in duly justified epidemiological situations and clinically assessed is that this may not occur. Furthermore, the Minister of Health has already asked all the presidents of the board of directors, in order to know whether or not they were complying with the understanding of DGS — in fact, I will be able to provide this House with these answers, one at a time — and that is what they say is prevailing. I do not know the specific case, so I cannot pronounce myself, but in a generic way, that is what we have to say and that is where we will continue to work, obviously. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u223	After the first debate this afternoon, and before we move on to the second item on our agenda, we will wait a few seconds. [[Pause.]] We are now in a position to move on to the preparatory debate of the European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u224	Mr President, thank you very much for this pause. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next European Council will open with a point of view on COVID-19, which we have decided will appear on all European Councils in order to make the situation point and ensure good coordination between the different Member States in response to this pandemic. We then have three fundamental points on the agenda, the first of which affects relations between the European Union and the United Kingdom. We will make an assessment of the situation of the negotiations, which continue, but with three critical, particularly important points: the first is on fisheries and it deals with access to British waters by Union fishermen; the second concerns State aid and regulatory mechanisms; and the third is on ensuring the existence of conditions of equality in the competitiveness of the economies, through the guarantee of a clause of non-regression of labour, social and fiscal, including on carbon prices. Finally, we want to ensure a model of governance of the exit agreement which does not eliminate the role of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. The contact between the two teams is running, we maintain total confidence in the European negotiator Michel Barnier and the most important thing is to maintain the unity of the 27 and a dialogue, with one voice, with the United Kingdom. With regard to the implementation of the exit agreement, we share the concern raised by this precedent of failure with respect to international law, which resulted in the introduction of an internal market law violating the agreement established between the United Kingdom and the European Union. We therefore support and understand that the European Commission has launched an infringement process, because the primacy of international law must be guaranteed and the first condition for the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom is precisely respect for international law. Regardless of the outcome of the negotiations, we must carefully prepare a contingency plan to respond to a ruinous situation, in which on 1 January we have a Brexit without agreement, which will be particularly demanding, because it will also be the day of the opening of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. And surely the least we want is to start our Presidency at such a difficult time in the relations of the European Union with the United Kingdom. The second point concerns climate change. As in the previous Council we focused our attention on the digital transition, climate transition is another key element of the future challenges of the European Union. Portugal has been on the front line with one of the most ambitious agendas and with more ambitious targets, and welcomes the Commission's proposal to increase the greenhouse gas reduction target by 55 % by reference to 1990 levels. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This decision constitutes another right step towards carbon neutrality in 2050, as agreed in the Paris Agreement. We will therefore continue in the European Council to support the allocation of one third of European funds to climate action, to ensure that the Right Transition Fund is properly used by the countries that are the biggest beneficiaries, with their commitment to the goals corresponding to the benefits they will receive and also to the mechanisms for promoting sustainable financing. Finally, we will have a point of greater strategic importance for the future of Europe, which is the relationship between the European Union and the African continent. The African continent is not only our neighbour, it is also the continent with which we have a more intense relationship, which we need to deepen throughout this century. We are sure that the EU-Africa Summit, in full format, will only take place in 2021, without prejudice to the summit in restricted format with the different African countries, which will take place on 9 December. Let us hope that the evolution of the pandemic will not further delay the full realization of this Summit. In addition, it is absolutely essential that the European Union and Africa deepen their relationship, taking into account the establishment of the continental free trade zone in Africa and the political and technical support that the Union can provide to the African Union for the development of this project, sharing the experience of several years in a free trade zone in Europe. We believe that the time has come for a strengthening of the institutional architecture of the partnership, allowing for better follow-up to the commitments signed at the level of the head of state and government. in this sense, in addition to the continental free trade zone, we agree with the decision of the European Union to support a Nigerian candidature for the Directorate-General of the World Trade Organisation. This clearly means that for us the relationship between Europe and Africa should not be based on border management, but rather on a common programme for shared prosperity, which must exist and dominate, either on the side of the Mediterranean or on the other side. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is this new level of relationship that we must develop, which we must narrow, that we must establish, because this is not the time to build any wall between Europe and Africa, it is time to build a bridge that contributes to the joint development of the two continents. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u225	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the debate stage, which will follow the same pattern as the previous debate. To speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u226	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been said about the future of Europe, about its collapse or its strengthening, about being a united or broken family, about the weakest and strongest, about the north and the south, but the truth is there is only one way to overcome this crisis — all together. All previous world crises have caused significant economic, political and social changes, and this which we are now going through will not be different. But the size of these changes and the sense of them will be an effect and a cause that is in our hands. The rapid, effective, structured and consistent response that we will give to this crisis will be decisive in the country and Europe we want in the next decade. Mr Prime Minister, in the wake of another European Council, and already looking at another one, relevant due to the importance of the time and the decisions that need to be taken, highlight key proposals and ideas that try to ensure that recovery must be sustainable, equitable, inclusive and fair for all Member States. It is necessary to restore and revitalize the single market, make it resilient (from companies to the European economy), to ensure fair conditions of competition, to strengthen important and urgent investments, to strongly wager in the ecological and digital transition. Using these investments to start the decarbonisation of economies, while creating jobs, may be the beginning of an economic recovery. The European Ecological Pact and digital transformation can be an initial boost to the economy and should be an accelerator in job creation, contributing to the promotion of sustainable economic and social development as well as leveraging the essential industrial sectors of the European Union. Reindustrialisation of Europe is a safe bet, emphasizing small and medium-sized enterprises and the interests of workers as a catalyst for our economy, always investing in innovation, science and knowledge. Climate neutrality and the digital future are essential for Europe's growth, are important for the sustainable recovery of the European Union and continue to be one of the benchmarks for Europe's long-term competitiveness. The dual transition continues to be at the heart of the current proposals, since they are essential for the drive of the economy and for the preparation of the future for the next generation. Investment in infrastructure, cybersecurity, education, digital skills will contribute to building technological competitiveness. Mr Prime Minister, the consequences of this pandemic crisis will be felt for many years. But the pandemic showed how Europe, governments, companies and society should act fast, incisive and systemic when confronted with a real emergency. There is a need for collective ambition and leadership. That Europe can lead this recovery towards economic, social and environmental regeneration is what we all want, as well as Portugal can be at the forefront of this recovery. As the President of the European Commission said, Portugal has shown the best of itself and the best of Europe. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you what the expectations of the Portuguese Government regarding the ambition of a rebirth of a more industrialised Europe, focusing on the importance of this dimension and what industrial clusters should or may be a bet. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u227	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, contrary to what the Bureau had initially mentioned, the Government will intervene only at the closing stage. The Socialist Party continues to speak through Mr Pedro Cegonho. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u228	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: A strong Europe in its diversity is essential to form a globalised world within the framework of values that brings us together. The common foreign and security policy is an essential pillar for designing a Europe with more global influence, which must therefore focus on preserving its strategic autonomy and on defending open societies and economies. in this field, and with regard to the last extraordinary European Council, we would like to welcome the joint capacity of the Council to call for and promote the convening of a multilateral international conference on the eastern Mediterranean, whose scope, participants and timetables we believe may be essential for success in obtaining multilateral solutions to disputes on maritime delimitations, such as what happens between the Member State of the European Union Cyprus and the European Union partner and neighbouring Turkey, or also to promote more effective solutions to the plans proposed by the Commission for migration, which require greater responsibility and humanitarian action. Secondly, we welcome the concern about the dialogue with China, either in the course of the negotiations for a global investment agreement that curates market asymmetries, without becoming a protectionist, or also in the incentive to focus China on the goals of the Paris Agreement, increasing a more ambitious climate action. We would like to underline the European Council's joint will to condemn violence against peaceful demonstrators, acts of intimidation and arbitrary arrests and detentions in Belarus by defending full democratic right to free and fair elections, without external interference, and at the same time by demonstrating agreement with restrictive measures against individuals responsible for such situations and urging the Commission to prepare a comprehensive plan for economic support for democratic Belarus. Mr Prime Minister, approaching the Portuguese Presidency of the European Council, in the first half of 2021, agrees that the softpower and prestige of the diplomatic action and of the international policy of the Portuguese Republic will make a difference in a positive evolution of all themes of the common foreign policy as well as in the state and evolution of the negotiations on the future partnership between the European Union and the United Kingdom? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved on to the speeches of the Social Democratic Party, and Mr Paul Moniz has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other Members. Members of the Government : This preparatory debate of the next European Council is of increasing importance as we approach the end of the year, because, indeed, the speed with which we have to deal with the resolution of these urgent problems and the urgent and indisputable need for the economy to be able to benefit from the funds of the European recovery plan imposes a pressure that I expect from the next European Council and is concerned about the signs that the smoother of the public procurement code and the way in which the succession of the President of the Court of Auditors has been conducted can leave the air and induce those who have less confidence in our country and the use of funds. Mr. Prime Minister, your Government's lack of solidarity with the autonomous regions is beginning to be gratifying. Mr Prime Minister expressed the desire not to make use of loans and to keep the funds coming as a grant. This means that, for the autonomous regions, the solution to solving the problems of this social and economic crisis was the freedom of indebtedness. In the case of the country, Mr. Prime Minister took the option of benefiting from funds that come to the bottom rather than from the loan solution. Last week, the Azores Government made a bond loan of EUR 285 million at an interest rate that is twice that of the Republic. Mr Prime Minister, if we are in the same country, it was to be hoped that since we do not want to benefit from funds that have been lost, at least we would benefit from access to historically low credits such as those we hope will be reached with the consensus of the mutualisation of the loan within the framework of the 27. I believe that saving a few million euros may not have much meaning for you, but for the Azores economy, and in the logic of the good use of public resources, it is essential. With regard to the Azores and autonomous regions, what we are asking for is neither a different treatment nor a special treatment. We demand that you treat the Azores and Madeira in the same way that Europe has treated Portugal. They consist of the Costa Silva plan the commitment and idea of an Atlantic university, with a pole in Madeira and seat the Azores. Still yesterday, RTP Azores said that the expected funding and reinforcement would not happen. in a mere propaganda attitude, in February, what was promised and announced throughout the year failed. Mr. Prime Minister, the utopia of plans has limits and the credit ends when the same things are repeated for years without realising them. Mr Prime Minister, you are concerned to leave the Azores at the bottom of the table of the choices of this government ; it was so in the Supplementary Budget that you also sent us to the bank. I would like to ask you the question: are you in a position to accept the commitment that we can access funds that come to the bottom and loans to historically low interest, as you say? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u231	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : There is one issue that is important to clarify at the moment and that has to do with the question of POSEI (Special Options Programme to address distance and insularity). POSEI is important for the outermost regions and, above all, for the Azores. We need an increase of EUR 10 million, and the European Commission proposes a cut of 3, 9 %. Now, we are asking for more and the Commission is doing less. And what has been the strategy of this government? It was to the Azores in 2018 that then Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development said: "we managed to maintain POSEI". The truth is they couldn't keep POSEI. Worse than that is the strategy used, that is, they settled down and became happy with maintenance. Well, one of those strategies is to lose. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't give you any of my goods for you to sell, because I'm sure you'll sell it at a lower price than the one I bought. It is a wrong government strategy to be content with maintenance when we need more. The question is whether, in the case of maintenance and never increase, the State budget for 2021 will provide for the accommodation of funds to close the reinforcement that is necessary for the POSEI of the Azores. There is another issue that is also important for the Prime Minister to clarify today, because we have asked him several times in writing and there is no way to have a concrete answer. Even in April 2016 you signed with the President of the Government of the Azores a joint declaration on the Port of Praia da Vitoria. There : « We will submit the Port of Victoria Beach to European funds and install the LNG (LNG natural gas) for the supply of ships ». This has not happened until now. And, more serious than this, the first time I asked the Minister of the Sea, the answer was: "Well, it is true, this is not solved, but we will continue to promise." We are perfectly clear. A clear, interesting evidence about that. But, Prime Minister, the more serious is the National Strategy for the Sea 2021 - 2030 do not mention the Port of Praia da Vitoria.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u233	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u234	That is, neither for LNG nor for hydrogen. The question is whether — because you say the bad languages that you replaced the Port of the Beach of the Victory by the Port of Sines, when you should consider both — the Port of the Beach of the Victory will or will not be contemplated with LNG or hydrogen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u235	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u236	Or, then, there is a brake that you have to explain and that has to do with the use of the area of the Beach of Victoria and the Airport of Lajes, which is conditional on military agreements with the United States and NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization). Yes or no? Say it today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u237	Mr President, I thank you for your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u238	It's not worth running away from the answer. Thank you very much for your condescendence, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u239	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u240	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u241	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u242	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u243	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I need Mr President's help to locate me in the debate. [[PSD protests.]] I would have had every interest in having a debate on the Autonomous Region of the Azores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u244	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u245	...the electoral circle by which I am elected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u246	I ask Mr President what is the subject of this debate we are attending,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u247	Member of the...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u248	... until one of the speakers is Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u249	Mrs. Member, you'll excuse me, but it can't be. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u250	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u251	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u252	It is also for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u253	Mr President, you have the floor, but I would like to thank you for finishing this incident as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u254	Mr President, the last thing I want is to prolong the debate on a lateral issue. It is only to tell Mr President that the speeches of the PSD colleagues are absolutely focused on this debate and the Socialist Party, if you thought that you should allow Mr Deputy to speak, you should have done so and not do the occupation of time the way you did.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u255	Thank you, sir, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u256	The debate is of the Socialist Party too, and they know it there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u257	Let us turn to the intervention of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u258	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Prime Minister, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, other members of the Government and all the people present, after the long debate before him. The European Council's agenda, which we are discussing here, includes climate change. Climate changes are now evident throughout the world. In the last two decades, there have been 18 of the hottest years of registration. Extreme weather phenomena, such as forest fires, heat waves and repeated floods, are becoming more frequent and severe, with disastrous consequences for all life on earth. The Commission's impact assessment concluded that a reduction of 55 % in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 would be sufficient, but according to the UN 2020 Emission Loss Report, the planet is on its way to a global temperature increase of 3, 2 °C, even if countries comply with the Paris Agreement's commitments. The Commission refused to do so following science, with insufficient 55 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a target for reducing emissions by 60 % — better, but still insufficient. The message is clear: Members of the Euro MPs — with the exception of the PSD and the CDS, who voted against — want to improve the Commission's proposal. The Left Block argues that the transition must be socially fair and inclusive, and for this scientific evidence must be prioritized in relation to commercial interests. We support a reduction of emissions from 70 % to 2030 and the end of allowances for fossil fuels. We believe that only with a common agricultural policy and a European forest policy that is linked to decarbonisation and promote the increase in natural carbon dioxide captures will we be able to avoid climate chaos. Mr Prime Minister, what is the position of the Government vis-à-vis the position of the European Parliament and the Left Block? What are the goals and strategies that will lead to the debate on climate change in the European Council? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u259	Mr Beatriz Gomes Dias also spoke from the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u260	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The situation in Mozambique has worsened a lot in recent years. The situation in Cape Delgado has been marked by brutality, violence and the terrible loss of lives. The armed conflict has already caused more than 2000 deaths, more than 25 000 displaced persons and more than 700 000 persons in need of assistance. Non-governmental organizations reveal that more than half of the people affected by violence are children. There are complaints about the recruitment of children by armed groups, abductions and sexual and gender-based violence against women and girls; they also report that the population is often held hostage in the fighting between the armed groups and the military forces of the State. The discovery of natural gas — the ninth largest reserves in the world — has led to a race for access to and exploitation of natural resources. Multinationals, Europeans and internationals such as ExxonMobile, Anadarko Petroleum, Total S.E. , to ENI S.p.A. and Galp Energy SGPS, S.A. they carry out, without hesitation, their plans for the predation of natural resources; they pretend that nothing is happening and progressing, ignoring the humanitarian tragedy that afflicts a population massacred by enormous poverty, natural disasters and pandemics. During the visit to Guinea-Bissau, in an interview to the Lusa, the Minister of State and Foreign Affairs expressed his confidence in a positive response by the European Union, at the request of Mozambique, to support its forces in combating terrorism in Cape Delgado, stating that Portugal, as a country that will exercise the presidency of the Council of the European Union from January onwards, will contribute to the rapid and positive response of the European Union. Condemning terrorist attacks and jihadism is fundamental, but not enough. It is necessary to denounce and stop the extraction of natural resources. Environmental rights must be taken into account. It is also necessary to take account of the economic and social context in which the population lives. The European Parliament, in its resolution adopted by a majority on 17 September, considers that the causes of the conflict are also in the enormous poverty of the majority of the population, inequality and failures in the redistribution of wealth resulting from the exploitation of natural resources — first rubies and then gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u261	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u262	The next European Council meeting on 15 and 16 October should promote a multidimensional approach to this humanitarian tragedy. Don't you agree, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u263	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u264	Supporting and defending the people of Mozambique means calling on European companies in the region to make an unequivocal commitment to local development and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u265	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u266	What will the Portuguese Government do? I'm sorry, Mr. President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u267	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u268	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the European Union, in the process of European capitalist integration, the approach to environmental issues is systematically made to try to paint capitalism green, which is indeed a good pretext for the business of some. It is from the outset symptomatic the tendency to isolate climate change from all environmental issues, in a maneuver that demonstrates the objectives of instrumentalizing this particular issue. The CFP has an objective contribution in this debate and we refer to four concrete proposals, four guidelines, to tackle the problem. First proposal: the end of the carbon market and the trading of emission licences in the European Union; rejecting mercantilism and opting for a regulatory approach, aiming at limiting emissions and not transforming them into marketable goods or economic weapons of the most powerful.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u270	Second proposal: new agricultural and commercial policies, aimed at safeguarding food sovereignty and supporting local production and short supply chains, for complementarity rather than for destructive competition between productions, producers and countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u271	That's green!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u272	Third proposal: consolidation and deepening of measures taken in the context of the social transit, with a view to, in time, free public transport, assessing and possibly replicating ongoing experiences in other countries. Fourth proposal: public control of the energy sector, rejecting private monopolies of energy, for the sustainable functioning of the sector, combining social and environmental concerns. The Government will say: "But this is totally contradictory to the policies of the European Union! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And it's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u273	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u274	That is why we say that the action to defend the planet and its resources, as well as the fight for the right to development — two objectives that are not contradictory, rather complementary — require a confrontation with the policies and guidelines of the European Union. With regard to the relationship and exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, one cannot ignore and forget that it was the will of the British people, expressed in a sovereign manner in the referendum in 2016. The CFP has in due course expressed doubts, disagreements and concerns about the terms of the exit agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, in the face of shortcomings, weaknesses and conditionalities which do not respond to the legitimate aspirations and interests of the British people, attempting instead to impose options to keep that country linked to European Union policies. In spite of this, and of the profound contradictions which have arisen and which continue to mark the social and political situation in the United Kingdom, we stress this essential issue: the defence of the interests of the Portuguese people and the Portuguese community in the United Kingdom should not be conditioned or challenged by taxes or constraints of the European Union, in particular in this current, particularly complex context, after the signing of the exit agreements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u275	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u276	With regard to the relationship between the European Union and Africa, the challenges ahead require a path of non-imposition, not of robbery, not of 'European Union-fortress', but of cooperation, of mutually advantageous relations, of humanism and solidarity, of respect for the sovereignty of peoples and their independence, free from the ties and instruments of domination and conditioning. And here are the European Union's options underlying free trade agreements or partnership agreements with several African States. Inheriting the colonial principles of Lomé agreements and integrating into the Cotonou Agreement, what we see are unequal economic relations, serving the ambitions of the great European powers. It is essential that we learn from the tragic experiences in which European Union policies have resulted, from the outset, from Libya, but also from the issues of migration flows, the problems of refugees and asylum seekers and even Turkish businesses in this area. The peoples of Europe and Africa have many similar aspirations and interests. in this fight for the right of peoples to development we have a long way to go — that is to say that we are going, then, without any further setbacks or neocolonial salutes, and that is Portugal's statement in this debate of the European Council. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u277	The next intervention is by Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u278	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: First of all, Mr Prime Minister, I asked you, in the last debate we had of this kind, whether you were going to defend on behalf of Portugal in the previous Council the solvency support instrument because you understood that this was a very important instrument for Portuguese companies and because it was an instrument supported by the European Parliament, but unfortunately you did not have a majority in the Council to be approved. I ask you again, of course, and if Portugal has indeed defended it, if there is still any possibility that we can fight for this or another identical instrument, which allows our companies to fight against one of their main problems, which is no capital? I still have two previous issues on the Council's agenda. The first is on the budget of the Union and the European Parliament's position on it. As you know, there is an impasse on the question of the rule of law, on the question of the rule of law, in which the European Parliament — and well — does not wish to change what has been established by the Council. I wonder whether you are on the side of, for example, the leader of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, who argues that it is essential to amend this provision, being more demanding in the rule of law criteria for support to countries, or will maintain the majority position in the Council to move forward with what is currently approved. The second point on this matter concerns grants and loans. Mr Prime Minister has announced that Portugal will only resort to part of the grants. from the point of view of the principles and with regard to the intention not to increase public indebtedness, we agree, but we wanted to ensure two things. First of all, not being the bottom-up subsidies, as is normally said, they will also have to be paid by European taxes, which will have to be created. I wonder if Mr. Prime Minister can already tell us what taxes are these and how and when they are charged, so that we can know what this option will be for the grants. Secondly, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister whether we can guarantee that the budgetary balance of the next few years will make it possible for the non-use of these European loans not to imply a recourse to markets for public debt, which would be more expensive than the choice to take advantage of European loans. Then there is still the issue of Brexit. It is essential to know, at this distance, what is plan B so that, on day 1, when Portugal takes over the Presidency of the Union, if it knows what the Union is going to do, there is no agreement. Finally, I raise a very clear question about the rule of law, in this case in the Union's external relations. What we said about Belarus in the last debate is now about Venezuela. Is it true that the High Representative of the European Union for External Affairs held talks with Mr Nicolás Maduro to try to negotiate an election with observers of the European Union, having made this dialogue directly with the current regime and without talking to the opposition?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u279	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u280	I will finish, Mr. President. This would mean, with regard to Belarus, negotiating exclusively with Mr Lukashenko, without speaking with the opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u281	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u282	This reversal of the European Union's position would be totally unacceptable to us. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u283	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the NAP. Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : Portugal is the third country in the European Union which has lost the most tax revenue, as a percentage of its economy, to tax havens. In 12 years, we lost 1 % of our GDP, a fundamental revenue, for example, to cope with the social crisis or to fund the tools to combat climate change. in a country that loses so much for tax havens, the government, which complains both about revenue breaks caused by COVID-19, cannot simply wait for the European Council or the Commission to move forward towards fiscal harmonisation alone. The Government must be proactive and require action within the framework of the European Union and, above all, act internally. What will the Government do about the recent decision of the Council of the Union to remove the Cayman Islands from the list of tax havens? It is that we are talking about a tax haven that is being entered into in the New Bank's portfolio sales negotiations and that by 2020 it was considered the least transparent tax haven in the world, representing almost 5 % of all fraudulent tax operations that took place globally. Will the government say anything at the European Council about this or will it be impatience and quiet? More: it is known that within the European Union itself there are countries that are true tax havens, violating the most basic principles of the internal market. This is the case of the Netherlands, where our country loses EUR 236 million per year, and the case of Malta, where, due to the Malta Files scandal, we lose at least EUR 9 million in two years. What is the government available to do for the Council to debate seriously these phenomena of tax dumping in the European Union and to beat itself by such propagated fiscal harmonisation? Or are you going to remain impatience and serene? Finally, we know that our national tax haven, the Free Zone of Madeira, cost 200 million euros in three years. For the NAP, tax havens do not take place in a democracy that is transparent, whether they are in Portugal or outside of it. We have therefore introduced an initiative which proposes that the Government carry out a cost-benefit assessment of the economic, social and fiscal impact of the Free Zone of Madeira. Mr Prime Minister, are you prepared to make this assessment that the NAP proposes so that the question of the Free Zone of Madeira can be seriously discussed, or do you want to leave everything as it is and perpetuate this inviting situation to crime? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u285	The next intervention is Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I will begin my speech on climate change, reaffirming that for the Greens, a project that continues to subordinate environmental policies to market laws is not a friendly project of the environment and that agreements and commitments are soon to be achieved. A European project that instruments the environment, ignoring that problems are real, makes policies inconsequential, and even perverse, such as the carbon market, which transforms the environment into a business. Meanwhile, we are confronted with multinational companies that outrageously violate environmental legislation. There is still a gap between the words of the European Union and their actions. We are at a turning point, we need concrete solutions and we need to get out of the field of theory, because the lack of action, immediately, will entail enormous costs for all of us and for future generations. And this is this message, Prime Minister, which is important to take to the European Council. We cannot fail to mention the trade agreements that are aligned with the interests of multinationals, placing them above the sovereignty of States, the rights of peoples and the environment. This is the case of the Mercosur agreement signed in 2019 which still lacks ratification but will have serious impacts on both sides of the Atlantic. An agreement which, like others, can lead to the worsening climate crisis, the reduction of health standards due to the smoothing of health measures, the threat to agricultural production, especially those of small producers, and the incentive to intensive practices. The Greens have no doubt that Portugal cannot become even more dependent and fragile. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown very clearly the importance of countries to promote local production and consumption. It was therefore important to know what the Government's position before the European institutions was in relation to an agreement that contradicts everything that the European Union and Portugal have been presenting as objectives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u287	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u288	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The next European Council will have a great emphasis on foreign policy issues and there are three issues which, for us, are of particular importance. The first is the conflict in Mozambique, and a response from the European Union is urgent. Mozambique requested official, humanitarian and military assistance to prevent the escalation of armed groups in the country. I already know that the CFP will talk about the interference of imperialisms, the return of colonialism and the dictates of Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u289	You're not going, no! There's no time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u290	But do you prefer to ignore requests for help? Do you prefer to continue to have civilians die weekly and infrastructures destroyed? We don't! And the support of the European Union can even, for diplomatic reasons, be channelled through the Southern African Development Community, provided that human rights are guaranteed and respected. What matters is that Mozambique is being helped and Portugal must therefore lead the debate on this issue at the next European Council. The second theme, of which the IL has spoken several times, is Belarus. The European Union took two months to approve a package of sanctions against the Lukashenko regime and, when it approved them, Lukashenko itself does not appear on the list. You can't figure it out! I would like to know whether Mr. Prime Minister will or will not defend the inclusion of Lukashenko in the list of persons subject to sanctions in the European Council. Finally, today we learned that about 40 countries have signed a joint United Nations declaration of concern about Uighur rights in Xinjiang and the recent democratic troupe in Hong Kong. Why was Portugal the only country in Western Europe — I repeat, the only country in Western Europe — not signing this statement? at a time when we continue without news of the whereabouts and situation of the student of Hong Kong with Portuguese passport held by the Chinese communist regime, this lack of courage is simply regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u291	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u292	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that Portugal cannot be afraid or a calculator when it comes to the violation, wherever it may be, of fundamental human rights, whoever it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u293	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u294	Portugal must set an example, as we have already said and repeated, that our democratic and liberal principles are not for sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u295	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after other parliamentary groups have made their speeches, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has asked the Bureau to speak within 6 seconds of the time it still has. Of course, you have that right. Thus, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u296	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Of course, I begin to regret that this debate has been instrumentalized, but you know that you need to do so. [[PS laughter.]] I would also like to say that the PS governments in the Republic and the Azores do not think, do not worry and do not cooperate with the Azores only when there is an election campaign, they do so every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u297	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u298	I conclude now, Mr President. I want to restore the truth by saying that the Rabbit Steps sent the Azores to the bank to respond to a storm. [[PSD member António Ventura's laughs.]] With Hurricane Lorenzo, the Government of the Republic has been willing to support it, from the very first moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u299	Mrs. Deputy, you've already outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u300	To conclude, I would like to ask you a question, Prime Minister. Am I sure when I conclude that the European funds made available to the region have increased exponentially with this negotiation? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u301	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u302	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u303	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau if you would allow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u304	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u305	Mr President, we respect everything the Members of this House say and freedom must always prevail. Now, to say that this debate has been 'tooled' is absolutely irreparable! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u306	Above all, when something like this is said by a Member who should be responsible and clearly was not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u307	Mr President, we shall end this moment and we shall enter into the conclusion of this debate. You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank all the comments and positions expressed on behalf of the Government. They are very useful in forming the Portuguese position in the European Council. I will answer thematically, taking into account the three essential points of the European Council and then the other points which have also been raised in this debate. First of all, with regard to the United Kingdom, Mrs Rita Madeira and Mr Pedro Cegonho are absolutely right, this is an essential issue. We continue to understand that it is useful, that it is important and that there is a need for agreement, that the negotiation is successful, that there is a new agreement based on the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom from next January.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u309	It depends on compensation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u310	Of course, if there is no agreement, Plan B is to apply the rules of the World Trade Organisation, which means the reactivation of the contingency plan, both nationally and at European level. But we believe that the contact between the President of the Commission and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, which allowed for another month to be given to negotiations, has been positive and we believe that this negotiation can be successfully concluded. That is at least what Portugal works for. As far as climate is concerned, all of you are right. Members who insisted on the centrality of climate action. First of all, I wanted to say that communication by China, in the last United Nations General Assembly, was very important, through the speech of its President, of the commitment to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. We hope that there will soon be a positive development on the part of the United States, because China and the United States, being the two largest economies in the world, are alone responsible for more than one third of the carbon emissions. Therefore, either this dialogue with China or this dialogue with the United States is very important for the world and is very important for the European Union in its leadership position in fulfilling the Paris Agreement. The goals we are discussing in the European Union are absolutely essential, both for us and for its global emblematic value. I recall that it was the Portuguese Prime Minister at the Marrakesh Conference in 2018, the first Head of Government to announce the commitment to carbon neutrality until 2050. It was Portugal the first country in the world to do so! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have fought for more ambitious targets as regards the projected intermediate reduction by 2020. We support the European Commission's efforts to achieve at least 55 % reduction in carbon dioxide compared with the 1990s. As you know, it is very important to overcome the strengths of some Member States and these resistances are also overcome by measures to support the energy transition of these Member States. Portugal has therefore always defended the Right Transition Fund, which will, in fact, be managed under the responsibility of the Portuguese Commissioner. This transition effort is also an effort to regulate the market economy: green values, environmental values, are values which must also be subordinated to other equally important values and interests in a market economy. When Mr Bruno Dias raises the question of whether the just policies we are following at national level contradict the measures of the European Union or not, I would just like to remind you that one of the bases that enable us to implement these just measures is precisely the European funds. The light metro for Loures, which will make « a revolution in the mobility and transport system » — I am quoting the President of the House of Loures — is precisely financed by European funds, as soon as possible by the Recovery and Resilience Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But once again, it is not enough to be good students or disciples of the European Union. We must also have an active foreign policy. For this reason, it was under the influence of all countries, but also under Portuguese influence, that Objective 14 on the oceans was individualized in Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and that this whole agenda is permeated by our commitment to climate action. As the Secretary-General of the United Nations very well recalls, this is even the main existential drama the world faces. On the third point, concerning relations with Africa, of course they will be an absolute priority of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and Mr Bruno Dias is quite right when he says that the relationship cannot be imposed. For this reason, we have defended a partnership relationship capable of understanding and supporting the African Union with regard to the identification of its needs and the identification and implementation of its development projects. Turning now to the other issues, very briefly, first of all, on the issue that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo is concerned — because Portugal did not subscribe to the above statement by the United Kingdom and Germany presented at the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on human rights in China — the reason is very simple: we are members of the European Union and, therefore, we subscribe to the declaration submitted by the European Union, which identifies several cases of human rights violations in the world, including the violation of human rights in the Xingjian region, China, and the concern that is raised by the new Hong Kong national security law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u311	No, no! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u312	This is not only courage, as it represents the ability to assume our responsibilities. We are members of the European Union and we approve, support and participate in the declarations that we ourselves, as Member States, make and represent us all, and do not subscribe to the agendas of others who for their sake and on their own initiative have decided to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u313	I should say that to Mrs. Merkel!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u314	On the issue of the instrument of support for insolvency, the answer to Mr João Almeida's question is simple: Portugal defended this instrument. As you know, it has not happened in this way, and therefore we are under other mechanisms, either the PRE ( Business Revitalization Programme) or the QFP (Plurianual Financial Framework), to signal the tools we have to recapitalize companies that are economically healthy but financially in difficulty. Moreover, it is in these mechanisms that we are also seeing with the European Commission how loans can be used, not to pay direct public debt of the State, but to finance public enterprises outside the perimeter or private companies whose purposes are also of public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u315	Mr. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u316	On the issue of the Azores — I conclude by thanking you for your tolerance — this is of course a very important issue for all of us. I would just like to recall that 10 % of the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Plan are allocated to the autonomous regions and that if POSEI has additional funds, it is because of the work done by the Portuguese Prime Minister in the final negotiation of the agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u317	It's a lie, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-07.u318	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. The Bureau presented its farewell compliments to the Members. Members of the Government, I should just like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, which will start from 15 a.m. of the first point is the general discussion of the Bill No 56 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the deadline for submitting the proposal for the municipal budget to 2021. The second point will be followed by the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of public services in the municipalities of Odemira and Aljezur and the definition, within a maximum of one year, of the definitive urban solution for the lack of conditional housing supply, 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement social and environmental responses in regions most affected by intensive and superintensive agricultural crops, 225 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop integrated housing and social responses for agricultural workers within the Mira River perimeter, 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends urgent and specific measures to the Government to strengthen public services, to increase control and control over the working conditions of agricultural workers and to guarantee decent housing within the Mira river perimeter and 591 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government amend the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 of 24 October with a view to safeguarding an effective continuation of public housing policies. of the third point are the Lein.o 75 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and the social protection of workers by shift and night ( Sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ), 17 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, 246 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Change the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, 252 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensuring the strengthening of the rights of shift and night workers (amendment to the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions) and 542 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work arrangements (Other Labour Code and General Public Service Labour Law). Fourthly, we will proceed to the evaluation of the Resolution Project No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. Finally, at the fifth point, we will discuss draft resolution No 618 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support to institutions in the social and solidarity sector with residential structure for elderly people under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. We thank all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, your cooperation in this session and we wish you a good day to continue. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 12 minutes.]]
