ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u1	Good afternoon to all. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities that open the galleries, despite access limitations that are known. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will announce the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. The first announcement that matters to make is that of entry into the Bureau and withdrawal of draft resolution No 799 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). However, they also entered the Bureau and were admitted to other legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Resolution Projects Nos. 784 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 785 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 786 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 790 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 791 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 792 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 793 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 794 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 796 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 797 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 13. the Commission, 798 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 800 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 801 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 802 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN). I refer to, secondly, the Bill No. 597 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 598 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 599 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 600 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 601 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 602 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 603 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 604 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which drops to 1. the Commission, and 605 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ). It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, Law Proposal No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). Finally, I refer to Resolution Nos 16 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which drops to 2. the Commission, and 17 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), which also falls to 2. the Commission. Mr President, it is also important to take into account an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which must be put to the vote on the suspension of the term of office of Mr Ricardo Vicente ( BE) of the electoral circle of Leiria, being replaced by Manuel António Azenha Santos Pereira, for the period from 18 December 2020 to 16 January 2021, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then vote on the opinion just announced. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are moving on to the period for political declarations. The first political statement today lies with the CDS-PP and to this end Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have spoken and have talked a lot about TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ). It is important to do here a little bit of history: we had a TAP that was privatized; then we had a TAP in which part of privatization was reverted; and today we have an almost totally public TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u5	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u6	The privatized TAP brought a professional management team that understood the business. There have been several public discussions, and in different forums, about the management of the last years of the TAP. Some believe that the TAP was swollen, that it was unviable and mismanaged; others, those who promoted privatization, have the conviction that the TAP was viable and was on the right track. But numbers are numbers and the TAP has not received a single cent of taxpayers'money since 1998. The question to be put is: if there was no pandemic, would the TAP need State aid or not? More: if the TAP were bankrupt, as Minister Pedro Nuno Santos says, would it have endured the months of March, April, May, June and July only and only with what was its treasury, treasury, that which allowed to secure and fulfil its obligations until the first financial aid of the State entered? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the strategic interest of the TAP is undeniable for all, whether at diplomatic level or at economic level, or at social level. But one thing the CDS is sure: TAP cannot be a bottomless bag and there must be an active monitoring action of the several million euros that are being injected into the company. The Socialist Party's logic is paid first and thinks later, but in the perspective of the CDS, we should have evaluated all scenarios, with objective data, and then, yes, we would have made a decision. Unfortunately, we didn't. The problem with TAP today is that we have more and less private state. We had, throughout this TAP process, an absolutely irresponsible minister who objectively destroyed value in the company. If we have a TAP that has been pushed into the rescue and recovery framework and not into the CVID-19 support framework, this is largely due to the irresponsible conduct of this process by the Minister of Infrastructure. Although the Minister tries to build his truth on the TAP, there is a great difference between these two paths. And it is not by chance that all airlines in Europe, I stress all, have chosen the COVID-19 support framework. We are witnessing the experimentalism of Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who only now realized that reality sometimes collides with ideology. This is the only reason why, at the time of the pandemic and with a left-wing government, the country is witnessing the greatest public dismissal, in democracy, with the signature of the Minister of Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, now we have a plan for restructuring the TAP which has already been delivered in Brussels, for which the Government refuses to surrender to Parliament. One day, the Government wants to bring the plan for Parliament to pass and the next day the same Government refuses to deliver the plan, justifying that it is confidential. The Minister's zighuzags in all this process have transformed him into the most isolated and fragile minister in this government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention here something that is serious and deserves not only political supervision but also, above all, the supervision of the Court of Auditors. David Neeleman received a check from the government of 55 million euros. The question we have to ask is whether Mr Neeleman should or should not have received these millions. I went to look at Community legislation. And what does Community legislation say in terms of support and support from States themselves? It states in point 66, precisely from such a restructuring and rescue framework, that historical shareholders must fully bear the losses passed and that State intervention can only occur after the losses have been fully accounted for. I mean, Mr. Neeleman shouldn't have received a single cough. The rules of the European Commission rescue and restructuring framework are clear. I repeat: shareholders must fully bear past losses and only after that can there be State intervention. There is therefore a violation of the Community guidelines here. And, in the aviation world and as a result of this pandemic, all the shareholders, through this outside world, have lost everything. The states lose millions, the workers lose income, many also lose their jobs and in the middle of all this, where everyone loses, not only in Portugal, but in the world, Mr. David Neeleman receives a check of 55 million euros. The TAP disaster is not only irresponsible from the point of view of management and politics, it is also moral. As long as the workers leave and the wages are cut, Mr. David Neeleman is the only entrepreneur in the world, in the aviation sector, to have profit in the occurrence of a pandemic. It is the so-called ‘selective socialism’. The Portuguese people serve to be invoked in the committees of inquiry, but that same Portuguese people no longer serve to be defended in the agreements with Mr. David Neeleman. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now launching a challenge here, a challenge to the Socialist Party and the Government. The challenge is this: send this procedure and this contract, precisely to the Court of Auditors to be able to assess and monitor it. We are talking about many million euros, and millions of euros that need to be monitored. I would like to conclude, Mr President, with the conclusion that we have all reached: Minister Pedro Nuno Santos is a sort of...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u7	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos is a kind of King Midas, but on the contrary: in everything the taxpayer pays.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u9	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, for clarification requests, five were signed. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u10	First, three and then two Mrs. Members, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u11	So you have the floor, firstly, to ask for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u12	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, the CDS elects the theme of its political declaration to TAP. After we had six hours of debate yesterday about the TAP, the CDS chose this issue for its political declaration, but lost another good opportunity to say what the CDS thinks about the TAP. Is the CDS in favor of the company's maintenance or not? Is it or not the CDS in favor of the company's liquidation, as any opposition here goes on? Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, is the CDS proud of the privatisation of the company, which was made in an electoral period when it was already certain that the PSD and CDS would not remain in power and that the company was given to Mr. David Neeleman, who you are so critical here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u13	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u14	Let's see: the company represents EUR 2, 6 billion in exports; the company represents EUR 1, 3 billion in purchases to national companies; the company represents 2 % of national GDP (gross domestic product). Mr. Deputies here, before this House, what do you want to wind up this company? What does the CDS defend for the future of the company? [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] Mr Deputy, at the end of weeks of discussions on the TAP, will you finally assume the position of the CDS on the TAP company? Are you going to defend your liquidation? Are you going to defend the restructuring? Mr President, I would like to ask you two or three more questions. Is it true or a lie that, under the current circumstances, if it were not the injection of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion, the TAP could not have a future? Then I ask you, too, if you continue with the populisms that other parties raise, in particular the €300 per taxpayer, forgetting that, in any equation, we have to put the two scenarios in place? Oh, my God! One last question: does the honourable Member think that the company was well before the COVID, to say here that, if it were not the COVID, Portugal could restructure the company? Oh, my God! What was the possibility for Portugal to put the company on the VOCID plane if the company had already been damaged, Mr Deputy? Oh, my God! Is it true or false that the company was already damaged and therefore could not go to the COVID plan? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u15	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, TAP is a kind of Greek tragedy, with no end to sight. The Portuguese have no guarantee that we have a viable plan and there is no rational one to tell us that TAP is sustainable in the long run. The Portuguese even ask if it makes sense there to put more than 3700 million euros. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] We don't know! The government didn't prove it. The government is limited to sound bits without any consistency. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] The Rabbit Step Government, in 2015, removed the TAP from the bankruptcy it was announced. This government, in 2016, ideologically nationalized TAP. The pandemic has arrived, and let's be honest, TAP was wrong, worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u18	So, honourable Member, what is the terrifying scenario we have today? We have a government that has already put EUR 1200 million in the TAP, without any scrutiny,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u20	... a government that provided the services of the only shareholder who perceived planes and still paid him EUR 55 million to leave, a disoriented government, with divergences in the public square between the Minister of Protection and the Prime Minister and a TAP that pays management premiums to its managers in years of injury. And TAP, what do you have on your side to protect her? Nothing! It has only one prime minister, from megaphone to fist, who has charged during the last two years ideologically inappropriate on TAP management. He has a minister who has been "strengthening his legs" to the Germans, who for years stated that austerity had been killing, making the greatest collective dismissal that there is memory in Portugal, without any social sensibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u21	Exactly. Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u22	You have a minister who, in the recovery plan, only talks about wage cuts. There is no word for cutting the company's fats.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u24	And there is also a minister who has severely damaged the best conditions negotiations for the TAP in Brussels. For all this, Mr President — and it is not enough — I ask you: do you think that TAP, in this scenario of political-social terror, has any possibility of survival in the long term? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u25	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u26	Mr President, we already know that the CDS insists on the hallucination that the TAP was of excellent financial health before the pandemic crisis, which we do not share. This situation of inadmissibility was recognised by the European Union itself by not considering the eligible TAP to receive support under the State aid already permitted by the Commission, since only viable companies are intended. The situation of the epidemic by COVID-19 basically came to nude and aggravate the difficulty of economic and financial sustainability that the TAP was already living, placing it in a situation of potential technical failure, if there had been no State intervention. But what we would like to ask the CDS once again — it is not the first time we question the CDS — has to do with its position on the environmental problems of TAP. from an environmental point of view, TAP was the third national company with a higher level of CO2 emissions and one of the 10 most polluting European airlines. The proposal presented by the NAP under the State Budget for 2021, which provided for the implementation of a gas emission reduction plan with greenhouse effect, which, in addition to a more efficient fleet at the level of consumption, could go through the introduction of green fuels such as those manufactured from carbon capture, and also the implementation of an ecological purchase plan, among other measures, beyond the end of exemptions to petroleum products. The CDS voted against this NAP proposal. What we would like to ask is why? Why the CDS is against requiring environmental balances to a highly polluting company, which will receive state money support, public money from all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u27	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr André Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u28	Mr. President, André Gonçalves Pereira was a minister. I haven't...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u29	Sir, don't hurt yourself. I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u30	I don't take it, Mr. President. Even because it does not offend the person concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u31	You have the floor, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira. I'm so sorry. This is from my probate age. I still remember Professor André Gonçalves Pereira as Minister of Foreign Affairs, image. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u32	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions raised and by answering Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party. He said: « Well, yesterday we were discussing here in this Chamber with Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure, the TAP issue. There the CDS insists on bringing the topic." But do you know why, Your Honor? For a very simple reason: this will cost taxpayers many million euros. A lot of millions of euros! Therefore, this requires discussion, as is evident! Demands supervision! I am sure, Mr President, knowing you as I know you, that you will even agree with me. But I would like to say the following about some of the assessments you have made: the CDS — look, as the PSD, I have heard Mr Carlos Silva also now — has no complex with privatization, has no complex with private management. Therefore, we are calm, serene and, in time, we will do, as we have done, the comparison between what is private management and, we will see in the future, what is public management. However, I would like to say the following: in the discussion on my intervention, I would like to have heard from the Socialist Party another answer and another comment, particularly on the cheque that was passed to Mr David Neeleman, the EUR 55 million, and what is in the European provisions, which you know and which, perhaps, do not want to discuss today. That's what I'd like to hear from the Socialist Party. Now, with regard to what the company was and how it is now, there is an element in management — today, we do not have our management and business teacher, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos! — a reference element, where the assessment of a company is referred to. And this element is called EBITDA (earnings before interest taxes depreciation, and depreciation). Do you know what TAP's EBITDA was in 2015? It was about 100 million euros. Do you know how much it was in 2019? More than 500. So there's the answer. Then Mr. Carlos Silva asked whether TAP survives or not. Well, it is important to ensure that there is the TAP hub, which is basically what generates cash for the TAP operation. Let us see the restructuring plan, which was a document presented in Brussels. Let's see what comes from there. We're looking forward to it. Let's hope TAP can survive. A final note on the issues which Mr André Silva has raised. TAP is not perfect. Of course not! Did you have any management errors? I'm sure you will! That is why I have no major doubts as well. Now, there's something I know. You have raised an issue that has to do with emissions. It is a concern that the CDS has, that of the issue of emissions. However, I must say that if there was an act of management of the administration and private management of the TAP — where the State is also, it is true — it was the renewal of the fleet. This fleet in TAP is much more efficient. It did not have private management decided to renew the fleet and we would have a more obsolete and more polluting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u33	We shall resume the requests for clarification and therefore I give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, TAP has been going through a situation with huge threats and problems of greater seriousness. But there is no doubt that a problem that is not small and is not of little relevance to the TAP is that of demagogy, populism and political opportunism of those who, in the political-party sphere, use not only the situation of the TAP to make guerrillas but also the pandemic crisis to wager in social dumping and to "ask for the head" of workers and their rights. [[PSD protests.]] That is why we cannot but repudiate the demagogic form, the politically dishonest way in which this matter is being put by some parties, and here I highlight the CDS and the PSD — your owner, honor be done! — that they have from the beginning taken a totally disparate attitude towards the future of a strategic company for our development and sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u35	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u36	The gentlemen. Members speak of having no complexities with regard to the public sector and the private sector, nationalisations and privatizations, and we observe, in a very concrete way, the experience that has been. You are so quick to nationalize damage as you privatize profits. That's true! However, the defence of national interest, the defense of strategic companies for our sovereignty, is not what we have come to see. When the honourable Member says that the TAP has not received a penny from the State since 1998, it is entirely true. We went to say that for years, particularly when the PSD/CDS government and your Minister Dr. Pires de Lima privatized TAP in this criminal business with Dr. David Neeleman, in which TAP could not be sold, because the government could not sell it, and it was immediately sold to a gentleman who could not buy it. It was an absolutely scandalous situation from the legal and legal point of view! from a strategic point of view and sovereignty, it was purely a criminal decision. We cannot but say — and I shall conclude, Mr President — that what is really important is to defend the TAP. It is much more expensive for the country to let TAP disappear, as you defend, than to defend TAP and intervene in relation to its future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u37	Mrs Isabel Pires of BE has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, the subject of the debate is relevant and important. Yesterday we had a practically full afternoon hearing of the Minister of Infrastructure, the requirement of the Left Block, on this matter. We agree that we must have some seriousness when we speak of a company that represents both for the Portuguese economy, which represents both for the sovereignty of the country and which represents so directly and indirectly for hundreds of thousands of workers in our country. However, the way in which the right, in particular the CDS, has done the TAP debate, hearing after hearing and here today, in the context of the political declarations, well denotes the lack of seriousness with which the CDS is in this discussion. He talked about making TAP history. But then we have to understand the disastrous results of privatization that the PSD and CDS government has made. He gave a strategic company for the Portuguese economy to a private shareholder, David Neeleman, who, at a time when it was absolutely necessary, had no desire, as it was obvious, to assist the company where he was, for various reasons. And we're not even going to talk about the management done in recent years under Dr. Neeleman's wing, and we've been keeping a lot of track of what has been done in this Parliament. But it is still strange how the PSD and CDS continue to defend the private model we had before nationalization. It doesn't make any sense. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] Mr President, the remaining question, because the CDS has not yet been able to answer this question, is the following: what is the importance of TAP for the CDS, after all? Does it only serve to do business with the private or does it actually serve to respond to the Portuguese economy and Portuguese workers? It is only during this debate that it is unclear what the position of the CDS is. Unless you intend to continue with a private TAP and therefore cannot respond to the plan that the TAP has. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u39	You have the floor to answer Mr João Gonçalves Pereira from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u40	Mr President, I am grateful for the issues raised by the CFP and the Left Block. I would like to make a point as soon as possible about something Mr. Minister has said and that does not correspond to the truth. It is that, a little by this outside world, airlines are private, capital and shareholders are private, and the support they receive from governments does not change the shareholder structure, they do not change management. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And if there is a place in the world where there has been a change in private management due to the pandemic, the only case is Portuguese. It's another exception. They're asking the ladies. Members of the PCP and the Left Block because the CDS brings this to the debate. Listen, for a simple reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u41	No, no, no. Not me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u42	No, no. He asked, he asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u43	Me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u44	And I'll explain. It is because of the concern that the CDS has about this matter that this involves discussion. I realized that the PCP and the Left Block don't want to do this discussion, but that's what we're getting used to. [[Protests by PCP Member Bruno Dias and BE Member Isabel Pires.]] Then there's another situation. The honourable Member has come here to talk about privatization. Who signed the Memorandum of Understanding? Where was I in the Memorandum of Understanding of the TAP Question? What did you say there? What was the compromise? [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had this debate! However, I noticed that you brought some already prepared notes about the TAP from your home or office. Therefore, as the notes brought, they did not listen to the intervention—because they did not listen—and did not understand what had been said! [[Protests from Members of the CFP and BE.]] But I repeat, which is to see if you understand why I would like to hear a comment. The honourable Member is here to say « you defend the private, defend private management». Defend! I recognize that there are problems. No one's hiding that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u45	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u46	The CDS brings here a political statement and demonstrates by more b that Mr Neeleman was not entitled to EUR 55 million. The PCP and the Left Block don't say anything! It's like the government. The government, when it is in the parliamentary committees, invokes the people. Then in negotiations with Mr Neeleman, it is « take a check there of EUR 55 million»! It's as simple as this. That's just the difference. So I already realized that, on the side of the PCP and the Left Block... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Now you're upset, Mr. Deputies. As I was saying, on the side of the PCP and the Left Block, there is total comfort with the position of the Government, which was to deliver to Mr. Neeleman EUR 55 million and disresponsible him in what was his position as the TAP's own shareholder.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u47	It's such dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u48	Seriousness in the debate needs to be done!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u49	We will move on to the political declaration of the NAP. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 10 December, the International Day of Human Rights, instituted by the United Nations, was celebrated. In 2020, this evocative date was the motto « Recovering Better — Defending Human Rights », in an allusion to the absolutely exceptional period we live in, which especially affects those who are most vulnerable, with less resources and with greater difficulty in accessing basic health, employment, education, justice or food services. When we talk about human rights violations, we usually imagine a very distant reality from our country. We think of countries that historically have always been guided by total disrespect for human life. We think, for example, of China and its constant attacks on human rights, particularly religious minorities. Or in Eritrea, known as the "African North Korea", where there have never been elections and where women are still treated as employees and sex slaves of army commanders. Or in the existence of discriminatory, homophobic and transphobic laws, approved under the coverage of the pandemic of the new coronavirus, in which they are only the latest attack on LGBTI people (Lesbics, Gays, Bisexuals, Transgender and Intersex) by the Hungarian authorities. Ironically, both one country and the other are part of the current composition of the United Nations Human Rights Council. But unfortunately, today, this is not just an extra-border reality. Also in Portugal we continue to watch episodes of gross violations of human rights. After 46 years of the establishment of the democratic regime, we still have much to do in this area, and if, on the one hand, the pandemic has shown even more those that are the injustices and inequalities and social that persist in our country, on the other hand, recent episodes show how vigilant we must remain in the intransigent defense of human rights, in the face of the threat of violence, hatred, racism, xenophobia and intolerance. Perhaps some time ago some people could consider unthinkable that in our country three inspectors of the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) could kill an Ukrainian citizen upon arrival at Lisbon airport, in an absolutely grotesque context that should embarrass us all and everyone. But it happened. And not only did it happen like, in the face of such a serious crime, the government's reaction was too slow and mild, even more in the face of a case under the protection of the State itself. And, moreover, ignoring, throughout all these months, the signs and warnings made in recent years and which have been remembered over this time in relation to this institution, an institution — let us also be honest — composed of good and bad people, as recent episodes have shown us. But this was in fact the worst possible example that we could have given to the Portuguese in education and in raising awareness about the fight against prejudice, the fight against racism and discrimination, which still persist in our society and which cannot be tolerated or addressed with this contempt and lack of sensitivity. These situations call for strong and immediate reactions that leave absolutely no doubt that in Portugal there is no place for torture or persecution of the most vulnerable. But that's not what happened. More: human rights abuses in our country are unfortunately not exhausted in this absolutely grotesque case and we must ensure that it will never happen again. For example, we continue to be confronted in our country with the terrible scourge of domestic violence and gender-based violence or child abuse, which continues to kill dozens of women, men and children every year and that this year has also recently taken the life of a public security officer. By 2020, domestic violence had already killed more than 31 people, most of them women, in addition to having witnessed an increase in participations to the authorities of cases and complaints in the context of privacy. Just as we cannot also forget the cases of female genital mutilation—of course, a case, perhaps with less expression in our country, but a grotesque violence—in which the rights of children and women in relation to their own body, their health, their identity are completely violated and still accepted in many communities and which also occur in our country and not only in remote places, for example, which led the NAP to present an initiative that aims precisely to contribute to their eradication. To talk about human rights violations is also to talk about anti-democratic populist ways that are growing, to talk about ethnic discrimination, to talk about xenophobia, racism, homophobia, transphobia and the path of hatred. But it is also talking about the path of silence, about the path that ignores what is happening in front of our eyes, and none of these paths is, nor can it be, that of our democracy. It is essential at this time, more than ever, that true social justice and equality of rights be promoted. It is essential that, in the recovery of this crisis we are going through, the intransigent defence of human rights is an unmistakable pillar of our country and that this crisis is not allowed to increase the gap between inequalities, which not only persists as we run the risk of worsening. And here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, human rights are, of course, not afraid to question and change institutions when they fail, to assume our own responsibilities, whether institutional or political, ensuring means, resources and, above all, training so that they can function and safeguard human rights. Respect for human rights is also, more than ever, to combat poverty and to ensure that everyone has access to justice, health services, education and decent wages and ensure a dignified life for all people, prioritising investment in projects that promote true social, economic and labour sustainability. in a society where we all depend on each other to ensure our survival, the violation of human rights is a crime we can never tolerate. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would say that the way we are still going to make is not built—we have no illusions—with panic buttons, or 'throwing our head in the sand' or, less so, with the push of responsibilities, speeches and words of circumstance. We need, yes, justice, policies and concrete actions to ensure that no one is actually left behind, either in the recovery of the health crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u51	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u52	I shall now conclude, Mr President. ... in order to honor the path that Portugal has made here in relation to the protection of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u53	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. In the meantime, she informed the honourable Member that she intended to respond first to a group of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen, then the other two. Thus, for the first request for clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I congratulate you on the subject that you bring here, of extreme relevance to a rule of law, to a democracy and to our country. However, this subject, as it has well pointed out, transports us to evidence that shocks all of us and that has been discussed until exhaustion on all sides. This evidence was the dramatic death of a citizen at Lisbon airport. This was the first note that the honourable Member wanted — and well! - bring here. The second note, which I am adding to this, has to do with the total overthrow of the government in dealing with this issue. The immediate consequence of this death and the way the Government treated it was the following—I do not know whether the honourable Member is accompanying me: first of all, the National Director of the Public Security Police ( PSP ) came to say that he has worked intensively with the MAI ( Minister of Internal Administration) in the merger between the SEF and the PSP. It's only today that MAI said anything about this, but yesterday he didn't deny, that is, he consented. The Prime Minister says there is no merger. Conclusion: What do we have? The Prime Minister takes the carpet to the Minister of Internal Administration, disallowing it, and the Minister of Internal Administration to take the carpet to the National Director of Police. In short, this is irrespirable—irrespirable! And so it's too bad! It's too bad, Mrs. Deputy and Mrs. Members, because what is at stake is the dignity and prestige of Portugal, it is respect for democracy and the rule of law and it is essentially respect for immigrants. What is tragic, what is indeed shameful — it is a very trivial word today — is that the Prime Minister, who is the great responsible for all this, has not yet said what he has to say, and that is why we are all summoned to ask him to do so. The Prime Minister has to say here whether he wants to be on the side of a friend, which is what he has shown, or whether he wants to be on the side of the country. Madam Member, do you or do you not follow the PSD in this appeal to the Prime Minister to decide whether you are taking a personal choice here or whether you are taking an institutional position in favour of the country? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u55	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the topic she has brought is relevant and I must say that your speech is going well. It happens that, from a certain point of view, in an effort to speak of everything and in all respects—and we are talking in particular about the question of the death of the Ukrainian citizen to the guard of the Portuguese State—we did not fully understand the meaning of the NAP's position, because at the same time that it criticized the government for the way in which it conducted the process, it made criticisms of a security service, exactly on the same occasion of the weariness with which the Government was positioned. Madam Member, to value negative behaviors so that they do not exist again is not generalising them. The generalization which you have made here today is not rigorous, it is demagogic and counterproductive, because it is not to say that what happened to the Ukrainian citizen is what happens every day in the SEF that we will promote a culture of respect for human rights and a culture of absolute rejection of what happened in that particular case. That is why, on the part of the CDS, we believe it is important to separate three situations: the first is the full responsibility for the clearance of what has happened and the full responsibility for the allocation of consequences to whom it has done completely unacceptable acts; the second is respect for a country security service, which every day provides services of enormous importance and which does not deserve the generalisation that the honourable Member has done here, nor the care the Government has taken for this security service; and the third is a commitment of all of us to ensure that this respect for human rights is, of course, practised by those who serve the Portuguese State, to have this responsibility here, in Parliament, not to make this confusion. The question I leave you with is very simple: does the honourable Member think that our security forces and services are on the side of the protection of human rights or are they opponents of the protection of human rights? It is important that you clarify, because in the intervention you did you did not understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u57	Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u58	Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real her deep empathy for the content of her speech. The question of human rights is not a topical, punctual issue, it is not a matter of the last days, of the last months, of the last few years. It is a permanent issue, it is a permanent concern, it is an essential part of the construction of the rule of law, of constitutional democracy, of which we are here representatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I very much appreciated your speech, which I fully appreciate, shared by my party, by my parliamentary group, which, fortunately, has a remarkable curriculum of defence and serious and constructive commitment for human rights. Of course, the case of the migrant murdered in state facilities at Lisbon airport is a matter of extraordinary seriousness and, contrary to what some may think and say here, this involves inadequacies and shortcomings in political culture and democratic culture that need to be properly considered in the timely treatment of the current case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u60	This means that all responsibilities must be taken to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u62	It is easy to find scapegoats, but it is not with the sacrifice of them that we will be able to understand how this crime could have happened and, at the level of the SEF, the Government, the Presidency of the Republic and this Parliament, to take the necessary measures to make it increasingly difficult for such situations to happen again. The honourable Member said that the government was slow. Obviously, this slowness disturbs us all, but my question is just this: won't it be better to move forward with safe steps to solve things seriously, instead of exploring the foam of the days with another fact-verse that will be forgotten at the next opportunity? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u63	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u64	Mr President, I thank all the questions that have been raised to us and begin by answering Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group. There is a question to which, of course, I cannot but answer, which is the following: on which side is the NAP on this issue? Both our last intervention and our successive interventions on this case, I think it is clear that the NAP is on the side of human rights. We believe and appeal to the Government, Mr Prime Minister, that it is also on the side of human rights, because we are not talking about friendship, but about a political responsibility that must also be removed in this case. And we had the opportunity to mention, even yesterday, at the hearing of the Minister of Internal Administration, because we believe that he does not have the same conditions to continue in office. That's good to be clear. There is also a path to do, we have already defended, which is that of the restructuring of the institution itself, and this leads us to the question posed by Mr João Almeida of the CDS. You probably haven't paid any attention to what I said a little ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u65	I borrowed it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u66	... nor what I said yesterday, at the hearing of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, when we were careful to safeguard that, of course, there are good employees in this institution who are also being distorted their reputation. What you ignore and in respect of which we cannot close our eyes are the successive complaints that have taken place with regard to this institution. Because, if this episode is grotesque and an isolated case—we do not, fortunately, have other cases that have reached this dimension—we cannot ignore, for example, that in 2018 there were 74 minors who were detained at this airport. We can say « retained », but in fact we are talking about arrests and we are also talking about a concern already expressed by the Ombudsman himself, which refers to the CIT ( Temporary Installation Centre ), for example as « in man's land ». Mr President, if this does not concern you and if you do not think that we are talking about a systemic problem and not just a one-time case, we are obviously concerned. With regard to the security forces in our country, despite all the defects and those that may be the way to fight abuse of power and police violence, we believe — and we have examples of this, as was the case with the agent who was careful to mention — in people who are honoring their mission and who, with high public service, have defended and honored the mission of the public security forces. We cannot be confused and afraid to call things by name when we have an absolutely systemic problem in our country, Mr. As far as this is concerned, there is no need to be confused. With regard to Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, whom we thank, I cannot fail to pay him a point. If it is important to make a consolidated step forward in the restructuring that needs to be done, there is a lack of information that we cannot fail to criticize and a lack of political responsibility that has also been latent in intervention over these nine months. This, Mr President, is not compatible with the seriousness of this episode nor is it entirely unfortunate statements that we have heard more recently. If we can all fail, as we know well, there is a repeated behaviour that is not tolerable and requires more of a government that we want to commit to human rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u67	We will continue with requests for clarification. Mrs Alma Rivera from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is indeed a long way to go and it goes through the contribution that can be made, from the sovereign bodies, to the fulfilment of human rights. This is due, in particular, to respect for relations with other peoples, the way they treat other peoples, the peaceful resolution of conflicts and respect for each other's sovereignty. And it is also talking about human rights, a way of judging how we treat those who seek our country to work and to have a better life. This is also an element that we must take into account. We have another contribution to make, which is at the root of many of these contradictions and the problems we have experienced, which is that of combating inequalities. At the root of problems such as domestic violence, which the honourable Member has referred to — and well! — there are deep inequalities that affect women more intensely, such as precariousness, low wages, unemployment, which have worsened with COVID. Therefore, there is a contribution to be made and it is that of respect for the Constitution. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, when fulfilled, contains all of the human rights we are talking about here. What can not even be admitted is late concerns about the horrible situation that has happened and this debate cannot serve anything else but to understand what is happening, correct and take the necessary steps to ensure that something of these never happens again. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u69	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, also has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement that you have made, timely and important, and to put a set of thoughts to which you will then echo. It would be terrible if the commemoration we made on December 10 was the commemoration of a speech, the commemoration of words. Words are important, we know it well, but in fact, we celebrate practices or, then, we celebrate empty. I believe that, in this regard, it is very important to realize that the distance from speech to practices is often fatal. We make, with reference to our country, a speech of self-reliance. We have some reasons for this, but we also have many reasons to make a very strong self-criticism about the reality of rights in our country. When we look at the reality of our country from the victims of human rights violations and discrimination, the speech we have to make is another, completely different. What happened at the Lisbon airport — the honourable Member will certainly agree — was not an accident or an accident. It was a consequence, as Mr. Pedro Bacelar of Vasconcelos said recently, of a political culture and a culture in general that pre-criminalizes immigrants, looks at them suspiciously, makes them alleged bandits and then has drastic consequences in absolutely grotesque behaviors such as that which happened at Lisbon airport. Ihor Homeniuk, let's say your name. Ihor Homeniuk is the name of the reverse of human rights in Portugal and this must be emphasized here, in Parliament, in honor of democracy, a state and a people who really want to be human rights defenders. Finally, the second reflection, Mrs Deputies, is that 'human rights' must be the key expression in many areas. Human rights at work, for example, with the right to fair remuneration and social protection; women's human rights, with the defence of their autonomy, with the defense of their non-discrimination; human rights at the end of their lives, with strict respect for each other's choice at the end of their lives. That is the universe of human rights, and that is what makes me ask you this question, to conclude: does the honourable Member agree, or does she not agree, that human rights are not acquired, are daily achievements for which we have to give our best and mobilize everyone around us? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u71	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u72	Mr President, I thank the honourable Member and the honourable Member for the questions they have raised to us. I would begin by answering questions from Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP regarding domestic and gender-based violence, which still persists in our country. In fact, it is too serious a scourge and a battle we continue to lose, despite all the work that has been done so far. The health crisis, as well as we have been warned by non-governmental organizations, cannot allow the work that has been carried out and, less so, that no solutions are created for victims to be supported and empowered, despite the difficult context in which we live. in this time of discouragement and darkness to which we have somehow come to witness, as was the case with the death of this foreign citizen, Ukrainian, the recent episode of the death of the PSP agent brings us a light, a sign that we have people who honor their mission and that we must not fall into the risk of making generalizations. But this, and turning to the answer to Mr José Manuel Pureza's question, which I very much appreciate, should not lead us to be naive to believe that there is, in fact, no systemic and structural problem and a wrong culture that needs to be combated, particularly in an essential aspect that has focused on and that is the way in which we look at the foreign citizens entering our country. Only those who have never been in a service centre for foreign citizens, for example, to see the bureaucracy and the verbal hostility or coldness with which they are treated, do not know the reality of those who arrive at our borders, whether older or younger. If this does not shock us and does not embarrass us all, we can hardly turn from words to action, as you have pointed out. Therefore, I could not fail to follow fully what you have said, because there is a multiplicity of dimensions of human rights that is about to be realized in our country. We are not, with this, to be pessimistic or to make a table of everything that has been done about the conquests of human rights, either in child abuse, domestic violence or in this grotesque case of Ukrainian citizen Ihor. Indeed, there is a work that has been done, but ignore or close the eyes... The length that has led this process is a stain and questions what was immaculate in our country, the idea that human rights were consecrated and realized. Therefore, it is essential that there is a deeper restructuring and that there is an evaluation, which is something that has not yet occurred, from the point of view of the institutions. We must also look at this situation as an opportunity for improvement and evaluation to restructure the path that has to be made, regardless of the merger issue, which has been put on the table, but which must happen in a structured and untraced way for this process. There is an assessment, which is that of Portugal we want. And Portugal that we want does not solve with panic buttons, resolve with means and investment, whether in the different police forces, whether in non-governmental organizations, which are invaluable partners, or in our duty to protect, above all, people who are victims of violence, whatever their context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u73	To give the next political statement, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor by the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The growing and accelerated conversion of agricultural crops in a traditional way to intensive and superintensive olive and peanut plantations that are occurring, especially in the Alentejo, is not only transforming the traditional landscape of the region, it is also consuming one of the biggest environmental crimes in our country. Indeed, with this conversion they are beginning to be visible environmental impacts — which were indeed predictable — when moving towards a system of crops in intensive or superintensive manner of this size without having accumulated a set of elements related to the impact on the territory, on the environment and on the people. We are talking about cultures that can cover about 2000 trees per hectare, therefore, with very short distances between them. We are talking about very demanding crops with regard to water consumption and, at a time when the country needs the implementation of concrete measures that manage effectiveness in the context of climate change mitigation, but also adaptation to climate change, it is not understood how it moves towards an agricultural model that is exactly the opposite of what is required at the level of water use. In addition, we are eradicating traditional culture, making it not even economically viable, to give rise to intensive irrigation crops, which are highly water-dependent. We speak of 200 000 ha of intensive crops, from which the intensive and superintensive olive tree stands out, with very serious impacts and at all levels, which are not limited only to the water blocks installed within the Alqueva, but which extend to the boundary perimeters and other farms where these crops advance in an uncontrolled manner. Concerns are many and come from all sides, even because the populations are being confronted with the implementation of these cultures and with the constant application of pesticides to their populations. And as these cultures advance, the impacts are becoming more and more visible. in a region with some of the best soils of Alentejo and where the risk of desertification is more than identified, these intensive crops are seriously enhancing soil erosion. On the other hand, the use of large quantities of plant protection products and fertilizers, sometimes carried out even in an irregular way, is causing effects on various levels, particularly on the health of populations, until there are intensive crops with population agglomerates, and people are exposed to serious risks, mainly due to the application of agrochemicals. It also has effects on the level of water quality, fertilizers and pesticides to pollute surface and groundwater, with reflections on ecosystems but also on human health, until it is known that there are people who use catch water near areas of application for their own consumption; and also on the level of biological richness of the region and its biodiversity, especially with regard to flora, which is thus threatened, mainly following the application of herbicides in places that functioned as biodiversity shelters. With the multiplication of these intensive crops, the water lines, with all the ecological values associated with them, are being reduced to mere drainage valleys, corrected and adulterated, destroying impiously the riparian galleries and marginal vegetation. But the problem is worsened if we take into account the misuse of herbicides that intensive culture requires, either in quantity or in places that should function as a haven of biodiversity. In addition to all this, it is still necessary to bear in mind the fact that part of this work is done in a precarious way, without rights and without conditions of dignity, and also the destruction and disturbance of various places with cultural interests associated with the history of the region and even that of our civilization. In fact, the implementation of these projects drags everything away from their machines, forever destroying prehistoric, neolytic, calcultic, Roman and other sites, which are all of us, as well as documents and testimonies, and preventing generations from knowing their history and understanding how we came here. It can't be worth everything. Economic profitability cannot be made at any cost or at any price. It is also necessary to look at the impacts on soil conservation, on the level of surface and groundwater water quality, on the level of human health, on the level of biodiversity loss, on the level of archaeological and historical heritage, but also on the level of loss of a certain regional identity. We are therefore faced with a serious problem, which must be of concern to everyone and which requires urgent answers, which is why the Greens bring the matter back to debate. And I say 'again' because the Greens have already brought the debate some legislative initiatives to help stop the expansion of these cultures and minimize the effects of the existing ones, but which unfortunately did not deserve the reception of this House, namely the need to ensure a distance from the existing intensive crops in relation to the stocks, prevent agro-environmental measures or aid or subsidies from investing in intensive and superintensive cultures or even prohibit the mechanized harvest of olive oil at night. All these initiatives were presented with the aim of contributing to curb these cultures and promote sustainable agriculture, which respects the environment, biodiversity, heritage, public health and the quality of life of the population, and also to strengthen the fight against climate change in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u75	Mr President, the Bureau records the entries of five Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u76	Mr President, I shall first respond to a group of three requests for clarification and then to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u77	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, the abuse of the territory by olive trees and by intensive finess is a demonstration of how the agricultural and spatial planning policy is inadequate. This is an anti-democratic process that gives the territory and natural resources to the voracity of economic and financial interests, destroying historical, archaeological, landscape and natural heritage and compromising the well-being of present and future generations. When climate projections point to disastrous scenarios in Portugal, with great scarcity of water, extreme risks of soil impoverishment and loss of productive potential, high risks of biodiversity loss, public money continues to be disposed of on harmful production models, which compromise the cohesion of the territory and are inadequate to new climate scenarios, with over-exploration of water resources concentrated, with the privilege of two regions and desertification of all others, with the privilege of large businesses, the failure of small agriculture and the destruction of traditional varieties. Those living in these territories saw their transformed landscape and whole localities surrounded by intensive olive and almond monocultures with extension kilometres, without minimum distance from the dwellings, without buffer zones to protect water lines, with abusive cultural practices, of which are examples of high volume sprays near the dwellings, putting public health at risk, but also the mechanized harvests at night, which annually kill thousands of birds in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u80	The Left Block presented a bill to regulate this activity, to stop this abuse, but the Socialist Party joined the right to lead the proposal. Currently, the transposition of the next Community framework is being prepared and the question posed to all parliamentary groups is whether they are available to regulate the installation of agricultural crops and start an ecological transition process leading to the implementation of public support and strengthens long-term food sovereignty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u81	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u82	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, my intervention was for the ENP, but it also applies to the Left Block, which has managed to be even more radical than the ENP itself, which is absolutely impressive. in a discussion that we sometimes take no account, we always set off on a premise of prejudice against the Alqueva. This is an attack on Alqueva’s irrigation, sustainable production and profitable agriculture. This is the great attack we have. In fact, the olive tree, such as the almond and the vineyard, are crops of regadio and are thought for the use of the potentials of the Alqueva, which, in fact, was built as a structural work for the whole Alentejo precisely to be taken advantage of and for the richness of those territories also to be taken advantage of. Moreover, once again, I repeat, in the discussions that are taking place on this same subject, the only explanation we have is that, in fact, the ENP and also the Block, by the way, intend to return to the old agrarian reform and to the poverty that it fattened through the Alentejo lands, and which is of very bad memory for the Alentejo and the Alentejos. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] On my visits to Alentejo, I see no lifting of the populations against the profitability and improvement of their financial and economic situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u83	You're distracted, very distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u84	Therefore, the truth is that we always have a preconceived attack on all that is production agriculture. This is because, if we hear the experts, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality we have is that more and more are happening with less. The use of phytopherms and fertilizers is increasingly rational. We know it's about the reality of a few years that they've been talking about today, because, by the way, they haven't evolved into today's times, but we now have a saving and efficiency in the use of water and phytofarms. That's the reality, it's not the one that paints us here, times and times it doesn't matter. In fact, what you are interested in is poverty, desertification of the soils, which existed before. I want to ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think it's with the urban gardens, that you talk about so much in your short chains, that you feed the Alentejo...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u85	It's not just Alentejo, it's Country!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u86	... and faces the improvement of life and also the preservation of biodiversity itself. What is your solution to improving the living conditions of those populations and, at the same time, preserving biodiversity? Think about it, because the question is to have good practice and profitability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u87	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u88	This is our position. What is yours, actually? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u89	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u90	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the Green Party for bringing this important issue to debate. In recent decades, we have seen an increasing conversion of traditional olives into intensive and superintensive plantations. These olives have significant impacts on ecosystems, whether due to the irresponsible use of water, either by the use of pesticides, which contaminate water resources and soils, or even by the nocturnal catch of olive oil, which destroy thousands of birds in each campaign. These cultures also have low resilience to infestations and a lower ability to adapt to climate change. We know that olive oil reaches the differentiated market on the label by the type of processing — virgin or refined — and from olive oil — national, international or region whose name is protected, known as DOP ( protected designation of origin). However, there is no reference to the type of agricultural system, i.e. if the trees are planted in a traditional, intensive or superintensive way. Therefore, this right of access to information is being protected. Because of the environmental impacts, it is essential, from our point of view, to differentiate, from the consumer, the type of cultivation system from which olive oil comes, allowing the right to information and the possibility of a conscious and responsible choice, in fact, according to the law. We have already made a number of proposals for olive oil to be labelled on the basis of the type of culture which has so far been rejected by Parliament by the parties which are finally the spokesmen of the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) in this House. What I am asking about the ENP is to agree with the NAP as to the need for consumers to be informed of the products they are acquiring with regard to the oil production system they buy, i.e. whether it comes from traditional, intensive or superintensive olives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u91	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u92	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Ricardo Vicente, the Left Block, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, the PSD, and Mr André Silva, the PAN, for the questions they asked me. I begin by replying to Mr Ricardo Vicente saying that we agree with the intervention he has made. In fact, the outcome we are witnessing throughout the Alentejo shows that agricultural policy and land planning policy are inadequate, but in our view it also shows that economic interests continue to overlap with the collective interests, with the public interest, and also with the defence of natural resources. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I do not know whether the question was for me or whether it was for Mr Ricardo Vicente, from the Left Block, but, as I did the political declaration, I assume it is for me. Mrs. Deputy, it's not just the Alqueva you're in charge of. It seems to me that you know the Alentejo wrong, because otherwise you wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u93	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u94	Otherwise, I asked him what the Alqueva has to do with the District of Portalegre, for example, which is also Alentejo. [[That's a laugh from Mr. BE Ricardo Vicente.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u96	As you should know — you must have learned that at school — the Alentejo has three districts: Portalegre, Beja and Évora. Mrs. Deputy, that was what the Portuguese lived, perhaps, in the generation of our parents, when they were forced to emigrate. Therefore, the honourable Member speaks of this misery, but I speak of the misery in which most of the people who are working in these olive trees live.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u98	With this, the PSD should also be concerned about, that is, the conditions of dignity with which these people work in intensive cultures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u100	Mrs Deputy, we do not want urban gardens in the Alentejo, we want to preserve traditional culture. This is because what is happening is that these intensive crops are leaving out any possibility of competition from traditional olive culture in the face of the intensive and superintensive production that we are watching. This is what we want: to preserve water consumption, preserve biodiversity and preserve soils. We do not want to talk about urban gardens, because that is almost to play with a matter as serious as this. Mr André Silva, in fact, we believe that the consumer, in this matter, has a word to say and can even condition the market. That is why the Greens have already presented a legislative initiative to create a seal to identify packages containing olive oil from intensive olive oil. We believe that consumers should have access to information about what they consume, because only in this way can they make more conscious and informed choices. We have presented this legislative initiative, just to give the consumer the opportunity to know what he will consume, thus allowing him to make more conscious and informed choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u101	We will continue with requests for clarification. Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u102	Mr President, Mr Luís Ferreira, has created an incomprehensible, unjustified and unproven alarmism, which calls into question the contribution that this new reality has made to the dynamisation of agriculture, the development of Alentejo and also in the fight against climate change. It is true, Mr President, that in the last 20 years we have seen a real revolution in agriculture in the Alentejo. From importing country, Portugal has become one of the world's largest olive producers and exports have grown very markedly, contributing very significantly to the balance of the national agri-food complex. The quality of olive oil, contrary to what they propagated, is a product which is recognised as good for health and verified in strict control of toxic waste tracking, is of excellence and more than 95 % of production is of virgin and extra virgin quality. Contrary to what they have propagated and what they want to believe, it is proven that the olive is among the less demanding crops in terms of water. The olive tree is an important amount of carbon dioxide and its sequestration increases considerably in the olives of higher density, reaching, in the olives installed in the area of the Alqueva stream, values equivalent to the carbon emission of the population of Évora and Beja. Contrary to what is referred to, olives are less demanding crops in the application of plant protection plants and those used, while complying with strict European regulations, are low in danger. Mr President, the diabolization of olives and irrigation crops which Alqueva has allowed Alentejo to contribute nothing to the development of our territory. I repeat, it does not contribute anything to this development. In the Alentejo, where we fought for decades for Alqueva, for irrigation and for development, we do not understand this attack against the olive tree and the agricultural development of Alentejo. Is there anything against the development of Alentejo? Does the ENP understand that this rigour against intensive cultivation should be followed in other parts of the country, such as intensive crops such as rock pear, high Beira apples, Cova da Beira cherry, Algarve oranges, Douro and Dão vineyards? Does the ENP have any alternative proposal to make it profitable and put at the service of Alentejo the barrier of Alqueva and the water blocks that have been planned for that region? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u103	You have the floor to ask for clarifications from the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement. It is a very relevant subject, which the CFP, in fact the Greens, has also had the concern to bring to this House. The CFP also recognizes the relevance of this issue. The honourable Member has initiated his statement for something that is symptomatic—and those who do not recognize it are trying to camouflage reality—which is the profound change in the landscape. Whenever there is a change in the landscape and whenever it is deep, deny that it has effects on the environment, the ecosystem, biodiversity, the health of the population and its quality of life it is to hide and camouflage the evidence. There are profound changes in the landscape. It's true and it's obvious. I know the reality of what I'm talking about, and she's unforgettable. In fact, reality lies the lie they want to bring! [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] Mr. José Luís Ferreira, allow me to address the PS and PSD Members because they are the patrons of the superintensive olive tree. [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] contrary to what the leaders of PS, PSD and CDS have defended, contrary to what the PS Members here say, what this agricultural model shows is that it does not solve the deep and fundamental problems of Alentejo, in particular with regard to depopulation, which continues to worsen, with unemployment, with low wages and with the exploitation of cheap labour, which we all know and which is evident. In addition, Mr Norberto Patinho was crying crocodile tears on a destroyed door. This is because these farms sweep everything just for another square meter of land to plant another intensive olive tree. [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]] We cannot hide reality and the truth is that there is still more: they produce a by-product, which is the olive slurry, which has consequences for the environment. This is all undeniable, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. There is therefore a need for urgent action. What we have to ask is what urgent measures we need to take now to contain this progress and to minimize the effects of both environmental impacts and the health of the population. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u105	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you have the floor to respond to requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u106	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party and Mr João Dias of the CFP for the questions they raised to me. Mr Norberto Patinho, the development of Alentejo and the fight against climate change have nothing to do with the superintensive olive. On the contrary. In fact, when he talks about Alentejo's development, I don't know if he's talking about depopulation, whether he's talking about unemployment, whether he's talking about working rights, like those we're watching. The honourable Member even says something that will remain in the years of history: « The intensive olive is less demanding in terms of water». Mr President, I am going to make a proposal to you: when you are with the entrepreneurs, ask them, please, because they really water when it rains!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u107	Exactly! [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u108	So if you don't need water, why does it even rain the olive tree need to be watered? Oh, my God! You can ask them that question, perhaps they will answer you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u109	It's true! It's true! [[PS Member Protest Norberto Patinho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u110	Mr Norberto Patinho, if you want to continue, I can share the microphone with you. We're even sitting close to each other! Mr. Deputies, there are no attacks on intensive olives here. What you want is for him to be controlled by rules. Mr President, do you think it would be reasonable to establish a minimum distance between an intensive or superintensive crop of olives or peanuts and dwellings? Is it fair or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u111	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u112	So why does the Socialist Party vote against? Mr President, it is right, or not, that they will definitely end with the support of the CAP (common agricultural policy), both of the first pillar and of the second pillar, which, as you know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u113	It's not fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u114	Isn't that fair? Oh, my God! But these pillars are exactly the opposite, Mr. Deputies! These pillars, the first and the second of the CAP, as you should know, and if you do not know, today, are intended for sustainable agriculture that saves water and saves natural resources. That is exactly the opposite of what is being verified! If so, why should these cultures continue to receive support from the CAP? Mr João Dias, the urgent measures that are required are basically based on the Green DOS proposals for this matter: on the one hand, the distance between the intensive cultures, including those already existing ones, and the population areas, 300 m, giving a period for those already installed to adapt to the law; on the other hand, to end these incentives or support from the CAP, both from the first pillar and the second, because, as we know, these support targets exactly the opposite of the intensive and superintensive olive oil; on the other hand, giving the consumer the possibility, when buying olive oil, to know that olive oil is buying, whether it is coming from the intensive olive or traditional olive oil. The big question about this is that for a few years now we have no traditional culture. Mr Norberto Patinho, with the apology of superintensive cultivation, will then be left without traditional olive oil.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u115	And the wine? Oh, my God! What about the rock pear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u116	We shall now turn to the political declaration by the Socialist Party. Mr. Miguel Matos, whom I congratulate on his recent election as Secretary-General of Socialist Youth, will make the political statement by the PS. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just one year ago, the State budget for 2020 was delivered in this House. We hardly knew we were about to enter a pandemic that would reorganize our lives. The year that has passed was exceptional, but it is at exceptional times like these that we put in perspective what we are guaranteed and that we should strengthen our ambition. Today, we no longer guarantee our grandparents' embraces, their closeness to colleagues or their relationships with friends. Today, we strengthen our ambition of a strengthened SNS (National Health Service ) and a social state that does not condemn the crisis the same as ever. We strengthen the ambition of a quick but transformative recovery. Today, as in so many other crises, we look at employment, housing, education and our lives and we see distrust in the future. It's time to regain that trust.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u118	It's time, it's time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u119	It is time to believe that next year will be the beginning of a recovery, a recovery of affections and our economy. Mr President, the character of a nation is measured in times of adversity. This year, we have shown the courage of a people who have adapted themselves and of companies who have reinvented themselves to protect the health of all. We know a state that has been able to respond and that has been able to prepare. We have built public and private solidarity to help the many who need it. We're going over the first wave and we're going over the second one, even though with a too high cost in loss of life. We have always done so with an undeniable commitment to freedom, contrary to alarmist and security logics, with proportional, pedagogical and science-based states of emergency. However, in a process that usually lasts years, science has discovered a vaccine, in fact, several. Overcoming impasses and prejudices, it was possible to unite Europe around its acquisition and unpublished financing of recovery. We are now entering a new phase of this cooperation. Until the end of the year, the first vaccine will be approved, followed by more, safe and effective, free and affordable vaccines distributed throughout Europe at the same time in a proportionate way. SNS has been preparing to administer these vaccines, with a solid and fair plan and with established priorities. This will necessarily be a gradual process, but it will allow gradually to start breathing again, although for some time still with mask, to apply measures to contain and prevent the pandemic. This is a turn of page that demands of all of us responsibility and patience. As we turn the pandemic page, we will have to continue to write new chapters in support of the economy. I have been doing so gradually, evolving in the same way as the difficulties that have been felt, in a huge effort which, so far, translates into EUR 29 billion. But in addition to responding to the wounds of the immediate, we must build the future of our economy and our country. Portugal was even the first country to present to the European Commission its Recovery and Resilience Plan, a plan which is being negotiated, without wasting time, so that it can be approved by the end of January. This is a public and private investment plan, not to return to the past, but to win the future. This is an opportunity to overcome the obstacles that have blocked the development of our country for too long, the opportunity to choose new ways for our country, greener, more innovative and more social justice. These are paths that will guarantee a better future for our country and, in particular, for the younger ones, for my generation. What are the paths to our country? An industry that stands and grows in the global reconfiguration of value chains. A knowledge economy, where companies and science are partners, which creates jobs, decent work and better wages. To that end, we will need to overcome our secular deficit, that of qualifications, to capitalise on our companies and to strengthen our links not only across borders, but also, and above all, on the inside. We also need to realize the vision of the welcoming João Vasconcelos of a digital Portugal, where companies are supported in their transition, where the Public Administration uses technology to facilitate the lives of citizens and where the digital public school is even within reach of everyone. We want to be a country that manages the green transition, makes it fair and makes it grow, valuing the forest, protecting water resources, decarbonizing public transport, gaining energy efficiency and conquering the market in the circular economy. Finally, it is time to acknowledge that inequalities are not only unfair, as an obstacle to growth, that austerity accentuates inequalities and disadvantages growth. We need to eliminate poverty and strengthen social responses. Housing must be a right rather than a matter of speculation. In addition to these pandemic times, we will need to train the National Health Service. Mr President, this is not just the time to do the minimum. It's time to be ambitious in a time of responsibility. We can only give hope to the country, to the young, to the unemployed, to the companies if we show this ambition, if we give a vision of what we want for our country, which serves as a beacon to our policies and decisions. My generation has seen an economic crisis before, which gave him the dreams, in which he was suggested to emigrate. It was a crisis that, for many, made it impossible to attend or complete higher studies, which voted for unemployment and precariousness the start of our career paths. This time, it's in our hands to make a difference. We have an obligation to do more and better. The year 2021 will be our time to act. We do not forget that everything will become after the 12 midnight baladas, after the first vaccine will be administered or after the recovery plan will be approved. But the recovery, yes, will come step by step, a certain and confident step, on a path of hope and freedom, which will build, now and for the future, the improvement of our living conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u120	Mr. Miguel Matos, you have four requests for clarification. You'll tell me how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u121	Mr President, I will respond to requests for clarification as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u122	All right, Mr. Deputies. For a first request for clarification, Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Costa Matos, allow me, at the beginning of this intervention, to allow the health democratically for the recent election for the leadership of Socialist Youth. I also do so, as a counterpart and president of a political youth organization, recognizing in Socialist Youth a historical role in the affirmation of youth policies and a country for the new generations, which has always counted, throughout its history, with prominent figures, among which different colleagues from our House, such as Sérgio Sousa Pinto or Jamila Madeira, who, I am sure, pride the Socialist Youth in its whole. Mr President, allow me this greeting, although it does not share your optimism, nor does it share the optimism with which it relates to the situation of the new generations. Today, the new generations are in a rather complicated situation and a compressor roll is again about their lives: one in four young people is unemployed; one in five young people is at the door of poverty; the young Portuguese are the ones who, among young Europeans, later leave their parents' home; compared to other countries, Portugal is very ill with job creation, the wages that young people achieve and the satisfaction of their dreams and aspirations to empower themselves. Portugal needs an emancipated and autonomous youth. I do not share their optimism, because, if we do a longer analysis, we notice that in almost 25 years, our country had about 18 years of socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u124	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u125	And in these 25 years, the relative but also absolute position of the young Portuguese has improved at nothing. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that, with the continuation of socialist policies and the socialist model of development, Portuguese young people will be poorer and not less rich, Portuguese young people will be further away from European youth and will not converge with Europe, as it is a national plan, for everyone in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u126	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Costa Matos, first of all, let me also associate myself with the words that have already been given here and congratulate you on your recent election to the Secretary-General for Socialist Youth, as well as the holding of the congress in recent days. Mr. Miguel Costa Matos sent a message of optimism, in a tone that sought to be positive, through the votes to 2021 which he finally shared in his speech. I would like to leave just one comment: much of what is at stake here, concerning what our country and the Portuguese people need to have in 2021, has to go far beyond a question of faith. Essentially, it is a question of political options, because the political options we have on the table will determine much of what will happen in the issues that you have addressed in your intervention, such as the problem of the COVID-19 pandemic and its fight, the protection measures of the population, of workers, of young generations to the older. With regard to combating pandemics, attention should be drawn to the fact that SNS reinforcement measures are not replaced by ‘silver bullets’ or by miraculous revenues. Doctors, health professionals and science in general have stressed that the vaccine is not cure and it is very important to advance the measures to strengthen the National Health Service, to dignify, value and create working conditions for health professionals in our country, within the framework of the SNS. But it is also necessary to create conditions to advance, in fact, for a better life and for the protection of the rights and living conditions of Portuguese in general and of young generations in particular. I cannot but ask you the question of labour law. What position, after all, will we find, on your part, with regard to the repeal of the serious rules in the Labour Code, in particular the question of the experimental period? Will we or will we not be aware of this problem that is affecting young workers even more today?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u128	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. I also want to raise the concrete question of the verified experience and that life is showing us: after all, we were not all on the same boat. We must effectively guarantee living conditions and respect for the rights of workers and populations in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u130	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u131	Mr President, Mr. Miguel Matos, the year of 2021 will be a year of challenges and a year in which the first steps will be taken towards economic recovery, as I said, and the use of the so-called 'European bazouca'. The NAP always said that recovery could not be based on the economic model of extractivism and productivity, which would have to be based on combating and adapting to climate change and a transition to an economy of carbon neutrality, while respecting other basic principles such as the preservation of biodiversity ecosystems. from the Socialist Party, we heard the generic agreement with these principles, but, as far as practical and visible action is concerned, at the time of the votes, we soon see that they are mere words. When the NAP here proposes a strategic environmental assessment of Montijo airport, the PS is the only one voting against it. When the NAP here proposes to cross fiscal billboards and perverse subsidies to large polluters and electro-productors, the Socialist Party votes against. And I could give you more examples. But there are two issues that concern us and that should, in our view, concern the Socialist Party, because it is the party that supports the government. The first concerns the need for investment which will need to take account of a new context resulting from climate change in our territory. This is only possible by means of a risk map for climate change, as the NAP proposes, in its climate law. The second concern is the over-dependence of the tourism sector. The NAP has defended the conduct of a tourist load study in our country, something that has not been done. I ask you whether the Socialist Party does not believe that this study should be done on the country's tourist cargo capacity, of several regions and cities that have been most pressed, at a time when tourism is slowing down, instead of hoping that it will return to the old, with the serious social and environmental consequences we know of intensive and massified tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u132	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u133	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Miguel Matos on his election as Secretary-General of Socialist Youth. I must say that, listening to your speech, this must have been similar to the speech of the honourable Member at the end of his congress as Secretary-General for Socialist Youth. It must have been like that! However, I would also like to congratulate you because you have done, as far as I know, an on-line convention and this is a good sign of the times — the CDS has also made its national on-line council — and that we are all adapting to a new reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u134	The garbage workers will also work online!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u135	But if I didn't know that the honourable Member was a socialist, if they hadn't told me, I would have listened to him to realize that he was certainly a Member of the Socialist Party, because he makes a very optimistic, very positive speech—that is also a certain age—but that is little to the reservations that lead to that optimism in any way to achieve itself. Mr President, he says that, and we even follow him, the vaccine can bring a new hope. Through a request presented by the CDS, we still had Dr. Francisco Ramos here today, who came to talk about the vaccination plan. From this vaccination plan, what has been said in Parliament? It has been said that they are thinking, thinking, meditating, pondering, drawing, but in relation to doing and executing, we hear little or nothing. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] Therefore, Mr President, of course, his speech and Francisco Ramos' speech in Parliament raise some doubts. Mr President, we followed up with what you said about the digital transition, the green transition, the fight against poverty and all that, but I was listening to you and reminded me of some socialist dreams that we have heard for years: the TGV (Train to Great Vitesse), the new airports, the baby check... Who doesn't remember the 200 € check that José Socrates wanted to give to each child who was born? The problem is that there is a difference between what is reality and what is dream.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u136	Mr President, you have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u137	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. Mr President, since you spoke in the new generations and in the next year — and well— I would like to have heard about, and that is the question I put to you, the debt left for the next generations. This is a concern, because these debts often compromise our dreams.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u138	Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I would like to thank not only Mr President's compliments but also the various parliamentary groups for the congress. I speak not only of my election as Secretary-General but also of the election of a colleague, Joana Sá Pereira, as President of the National Commission for Socialist Youth, who also fulfills these new functions. I shall begin with the speech of Mr Alexandre Poço of the Social Democratic Party, who has already done so. Of course, the concerns of the Social Democratic Party, with regard to young unemployment, with the right to housing by the new generations, with our ability to have decent work and to converge with the European Union, are also concerns of the Socialist Party. It is curious that Mr seems to demonstrate not only a lack of short-term memory, forgetting the last response to the crisis and how it penalized very much young unemployment and the right to housing, but also has a very selective memory of the old history, choosing to hide 10 years of cavaquism, which have harmed them—and much! — young people. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] In fact, Pedro Passos Coelho, as leader of the JSD (Democratic Social Youth ), knew—and well—critique them at that time because, in fact, for those 25 years, the previous 10 years were all of your responsibility. Whenever the rights of young people receded, in Portugal, the responsibility was the Social Democratic Party. But let's talk about young unemployment. This is something we need to try to combat, we need to create opportunities, at a time when demand for work is scarce in our economy. One of the tools that has been used over the years are the internships of the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formação Professional). This has been a tool that has gradually been improved and more targeted for young people. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We avoided something that happened in the last period of PSD governance, that is, these stages were used to put young people there, and then give them a kick out of there, to enter others and youth unemployment always continue in the same. We avoided these stages being used to perpetuate a logic of precariousness and, today, not only do we have more stages, not only do we have better scholarships for young people who access the stages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u140	It's wonderful!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u141	... not only do we have scholarships that differentiate the level of qualification of young people, because studying should be awarded, as, moreover, we have an Employment Award that favors companies that keep young people working there, at the end of their internships. This is something that the State Budget for 2021 is strengthening. The stages are only one of the measures, among others, which have been created, from the Entrepreneurship Support Programme, the Youth Impulse, the Youth Guarantee. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] There are several measures which have been set up to combat young unemployment and which add to the need for response in the stages of the Public Administration. But let us talk about the right to housing, how in the past, in times of crisis, the Porta 65 Youth program has been cut off, and how it has been strengthened in recent years. We talk about how we establish the absolute importance of building public housing;... [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] ... and how it certainly did not favour the right to housing for young people that the PSD and the CDS had approved a new urban lease regime that had brutally increased income throughout the national territory. But we are still talking about economic convergence. Yes, because a young Portuguese man owes nothing to a young Swedish or Luxembourger and we must be paid by the value of our talent and not by living here or in another country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] If we look at these 25 years that you have spoken about, let us ask what were the 25 years in which Portugal converged with the European Union, where wages and available income have increased. I tell you, Mr. Deputy, I tell you: 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. It was the years of the Socialist Party's governance! [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] It was the years of government of Antonio Costa! I would also like to congratulate Mr Bruno Dias on his speech. In fact, we have a great need to strengthen the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u142	Mr. Deputy, you have to shorten.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u143	Of course, Mr. President. But there were four requests for clarification and two times four is eight minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u144	Mr President, it would normally be three minutes, but I am giving some tolerance, because if you had chosen to respond to requests for clarification one to one you would have much more time. But I want to finish, shortening.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was my wrong interpretation. Very soon then, PCP Member, the strengthening of the National Health Service, vis-à-vis the 2020 State Budget, was EUR 1200 million. All the descent that occurred during the period of the troika, however, we compensated during the period until 2019 and in the last year we compensated by more than 50 % what the right cut last time. Mr PAN, of course we will soon have a debate on the basic climate law on how to strengthen the requirement to combat climate change. Finally, Mr President of the CDS, which I also welcome, I do not admit to you that you use my age, or that of any Member, to devalue our interventions here, or that you use the age of anyone to devalue the interventions of a young person anywhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I ask the Bureau to make this note to you that you have failed the Parliamentary decoration there. Of course, with regard to the preparation of the administration of the vaccine, we have a long way to go, but the truth is that this preparation is being done, and the vaccine will be ready to be administered as soon as it is available. So when we thus establish the basis for economic recovery, at the end of the pandemic, we are laying the foundations for debt to be reduced. In fact, the last time debt has decreased in our country was even in the governance of the Socialist Party and that is how we ensure the sustainability of public debt. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u146	We will now move on to the PSD political declaration. To that end, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese are being confronted with the TAP nightmare: 3, 7 billion euros flying from their pockets over the next four years; the greatest public collective dismissal there is memory; and the doubt about whether the restructuring operation is a remedy to raise chronic damage and antidote that ensures that no further demands are made on taxpayers effort size. This is the price of the pandemic, but not just of the pandemic. It's the price of aviation paralysis, but not only. It is the cost of a chaotic political management, a gallery of horrors that portrays the state as grossly inept to manage the company. And it is also the cost of the last five years, in which the government has, in any event, transformed TAP into a battlefield, with damage to the company and the conditions of revenge in a vehemently competitive market. It is the cost of a government that reverted privatization and brought to taxpayers the risks, which reduced the obligations of strategic interest and control of private action to dust, left the private at its own expense, encouraging him to take unmeasured risks, and still offered him, permeio, leonine clauses, in the value of many million euros, which allowed him to leave the TAP with a golden parachute, jumping off the plane, while the taxpayers and the workers continue there, hostages, while the plane travels. It was this aberration, in which the government pretended to control the TAP for exclusive party convenience, a cosmetic operation that pushed the TAP into an unsustainable situation and brings up the account that they present to us now. This only explains that they have now been saying that TAP has been mismanaged over the past four years and that, even if the State had held most of the capital, nothing had been done over that time. They did nothing, because, deliberately and consciously, they put themselves in the position of nothing to do; they did nothing because for the government, for the PS, it was better to appear than to be, and it was enough for them to think that they were commanding, in a sad exercise that undermines the confidence of the Portuguese and despising the exercise of political office. And they still dared after all this to host the exit of the private partner, now, and with all the defects—and there are not few! — the only person who knew anything about aviation, with a loud « the people pay, the people command»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u148	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u149	... at another populist rally, accompanied by the competent cheque of 55 million euros, at a time when no one gets a toss to leave an aviation company. It's a play! « The people pay, the people command»! Well paid, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it pays EUR 3, EUR 7 billion, without any guarantee that the company's operating paradigm, its culture and the political and economic conditions that can free it from successive disasters will change. Pays 3, 7 billion euros without taking care of evaluating alternatives and just pointing out that the company is strategic. Pays EUR 3, EUR 7 billion without the Assembly of the Republic, the representatives of that people who pay and send, even knowing the plan to be negotiated in Brussels. It pays EUR 3, EUR 7 billion without guarantees, for those who pay and send, that for four years now, the company will not go bankrupt, because the state will no longer be able to put more money, because of European rules, and all this has been, after all, in vain. Pays EUR 3, EUR 7 billion without the introduction or knowledge of measures leading to efficiency, which end with compensation for delays, which eliminate costs with aircraft chartering, summarizing all and any responsibilities to workers, who demonize in the public square, who ignore the solution and to whom, subsequently, require social peace, so that it is possible to achieve objectives. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is these Portuguese who pay and send, according to the Government, that the Government has been abdicating the defence of the TAP with the European Commission, giving no resistance — unlike all other companies — to the company being outside the rules of the COVID-19. The Portuguese are like those passengers of the famous comedy, in which a pilot afraid of flying and a problem of alcoholism assumes the commands of an unmanned plane. Only in this case, when it comes to passengers, he says, thinking that it is for his comfort: “This is what ‘ The Commander ’ says. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u150	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u151	This is the manual of how you are not able to manage a process of this nature. And with this record, with the gruesome history of errors committed by the government, it's hard for someone to believe that the government will be able to recover the company. It is imperative that you make sure that this will no longer be a white elephant. This is the money of the Portuguese, which no word had to say on the subject. That these public resources, these EUR 3, EUR 7 billion — almost as much as the other 400 000 Portuguese companies will receive the funds lost during the pandemic in 2020 and 2021! — only be delivered if there are irrefutable guarantees that the restructuring process is successful. Let the TAP remain sound and healthy management, that it has adequate geographical coverage for Porto and Faro or that these regions, if they are not served, have the means to attract routes from other companies, so that it is, as we all certainly wish, a driving force of the economy and not a costly bakery of public money. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u152	The Bureau recorded the registration of six Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u153	Mr President, I will answer three and then another three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u154	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cristóvão Norte, thank you for bringing this issue here and for the way it has brought it, at the risk of angering the PS bench, because once again it brings the TAP here the debate, as if this matter did not deserve to be discussed as often as necessary. I will begin my request for clarification by doing something that I think in politics must never be done, which is a prophecy. My prophecy is that, less than two years from now, we will have to be in this Chamber to debate again a new injection of public money into the TAP, with the same arguments that have justified the decisions that have been made here: the strategic importance of the company for the economy, for territorial cohesion and for the protection of employment and which led to the fact that within just six months the bill has passed from 350 million to 500 million, to 1200 million, to 17 billion, to 3000 million and now to 3700 million euros! Will you stay this way? Oh, my God! Well, I'd think I could stay around if we had the slightest hope of having a well-designed and well-executed strategy. But well-designed? Oh, my God! When there is obviously no exit strategy, obviously there is no alliance strategy, is it obvious that there is not even a negotiating strategy with Brussels on this plan? Oh, my God! And well executed? Oh, my God! When isn't even the management team chosen? And, one day that is being chosen, there are only two things that are right: you did not participate in the design of the restructuring plan that you are going to have to implement and you will gain less than 30% than the current management team, which, in my modest opinion, limits the recruitment field a little bit. And well executed? Oh, my God! When the great strategy and manager of the TAP is Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, whose first great deep analysis of what has happened in the TAP is that the company has grown too fast, without even realizing that this was what allowed the Lisbon hub to have the strategic importance and value it has today. In the face of this strategic disorientation and facing these capabilities that he very well designated as "El Commander", are you or do you not agree with me, Mr Cristovão Norte, that my prophecy, unfortunately, is much more at risk of proving itself than otherwise?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u156	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cristovão Norte, I would obviously like to begin by welcoming the PSD for bringing this issue to today's political statements. There are, however, a number of concerns that seem relevant to us to stress again. This is the case, of course, of the strategic importance that the TAP has, undoubtedly, for the country and the socio-economic impact, in particular, the devastating effect that redundancies may have, not only at the level of direct jobs, but also at the level of indirect jobs that this company generates for the country. Given precisely this relevance, in view of the strategic importance that the TAP assumes — also at the level of territorial cohesion — what would be crucial for us to realize at this time is whether, in fact, the PSD shares the view that it would be relevant for this House to have come to discuss the restructuring plan. We have heard, at some point in the media, the position of some disabling way on this subject, but it seems to us - and I do not question here the subjects and powers of the Government in this area - that this is a very important issue, given that we are talking about a financial impact that is too relevant to the country and also taking into account the history of the various injections that have been made in the company and the private management itself, which has not been better - than they can often believe than public management. Yesterday we had an opportunity to mention the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, who seems to us, in fact, relevant to this debate in the House, taking into account all this impact that the TAP has on the country. I would therefore like to ask whether you do not agree that passing through the Assembly of the Republic would be a time to deepen the information that is absolutely necessary and the vision that we have to have for the TAP: a TAP that is aligned not only with the budgetary balance that is imposed, which is required, with the environmental counterparts and with the social and labour counterparts, since we have no further knowledge of them so far. Therefore, questions of ideology aside, honourable Member, because we can often have differences in the model we want to adopt for this company, it seems to us that the in-depth debate in this Chamber has never hurt anyone and even less when we are talking about a topic of this relevance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u158	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u159	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, said in his speech that Mr David Neeleman was, in TAP, the only person who knew about planes — I still had to ask if that was what I had heard... and, a little while ago, the CDS said that the privatisation of TAP had brought professional management to the company. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be to laugh if it was not so serious and if it was not so insulting, particularly for what is the work that has been done in the TAP for decades and "giving letters" internationally. It's just that these gentlemen to whom you are. Ex.s delivered TAP, in privatization, are professionals, yes sir, but it's not managing, it's doing something else. What Mr. David Neeleman was doing at TAP is what he did all his life in the United States of America and not only: he was mobilizing TAP resources himself, imposing ruinous management options for TAP, but very advantageous for Blue Airlines and instrumentals to sell TAP again, next. The process that the TAP was going through was not growth, it was fattening. And those who were « sharpening the knife», I know very well, were these foreign companies that have not yet given up on this market. The gentlemen. Members believe that TAP, a flag airline with 75 years of history, can disappear like this? Oh, my God! And then is it the market that will replace TAP? Is that the market? Oh, my God! Is it any other foreign company? We are well aware of the responsibilities that PSD, CDS and PS have had in the destruction of strategic companies for our development and our sovereignty. The market did not replace SOREFAME, it did not replace Cimpor, it did not replace the merchant navy. And in all these processes of dismantling the attack on workers' rights has always been a constant mark, as well as submission to the policies of the European Union, supporting the concentration of economic power and domination by the great powers. The PSD agrees with the operation of social dumping and the attack on rights, of course. The PSD agrees that the European Union imposes its policies of economic submission and sovereignty. The remaining question, Mr President, is how do you defend, with the population of Madeira and the Azores, with the populations of Porto and Algarve, with the small and medium-sized companies working for the TAP, all these requirements that you claim in relation to the TAP, when, in essence, what is in the PSD strategy is to drop the TAP and submit to the power of the great powers the national interest and a strategic factor for our development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u160	To reply, Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u161	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I am grateful for your comments, which, from my point of view, are very correct, and would allow us to start by looking at the prophecy he presented to the House. Unfortunately, Mr President, this is a risk that the TAP is running and that is why the Democratic Social Party wants the process to be scrupulously scrutinized. We all know that, historically, TAP causes and accumulates damage. And we all know that European rules prevent the state from putting money there again. So if we are putting EUR 3, EUR 7 billion there and we do not change the company's political, economic and social culture, we do not restructure it so that it is competitive in a market which is very demanding itself, then what we are doing is destroying what you note as the strategic capital of the company. It is therefore almost extraordinary that during these years there has not been a word in this sense. Here are the shareholders of the company. Surely the shareholders made decisions that were bad decisions, I have no doubt about that. But I must also say one thing: if these shareholders made bad decisions, then what did the Portuguese State do? The Portuguese State had made a privatisation and then renegotiated the clauses of this privatisation, when the private partner could either go out at zero cost or for EUR 10 million and then put there a clause of EUR 225 million for the state to leave, which resulted in the payment of EUR 55 million, when at this time no one in the aviation receives money! Where's the answer to that? Where's the morale for that? How can we ask the Portuguese to comply with the rules, to be able to safeguard employment, when we are giving a "gold parachute" to whom you say it is not worth it? Oh, my God! How can it be that the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party have all said that it was a great day, a new era for Portugal and the airline when it began to reverse this privatisation and that now, we are here, in this lodaçal, which has a much bigger bill than what should have been, because of what you have done? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u162	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we fully agree with you: then, one week, the Minister of Infrastructure wanted to bring the restructuring plan for the vote to Parliament and, the following week, we did not even get the government to inform us of the plan? It's extraordinary! The people pay, the people send, but the representatives of the people — of what they pay and what they send — they cannot even know the details and what they will be negotiating in Brussels. It's in the good way of the Socialist Party! Mr Bruno Dias, how do you defend TAP? Look, it defends itself in the following way: by making it a company that does not harm every year, to the point that it is useless for taxpayers and these to view it as a burden and a boil of public money. That is how TAP defends itself, Mr. And this imposes a plan that is serious, credible and that has the ability to rescue TAP from this situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u163	We will continue with requests for clarification. Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u164	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, first of all, thank you for bringing the debate to such an important issue and that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is very pleased to discuss. I would like to begin by saying the following: so many words written on paper and read for long minutes, so much "sweetness" on the subject and we are exactly the same as we were yesterday, as we were a week ago, as we were nine weeks ago, as we were nine months ago! Let us be frank, Mr Cristovão Norte : you have no idea of an alternative plan for the TAP and have, throughout all this time, limited themselves to discussing the plan of the Socialist Party. That's what you guys do, that's what all right does. But most importantly, it is the following: either you are afraid to try to tell the Portuguese what you want — that is, if you want to close the TAP definitely and question what is absolutely relevant, such as territorial continuity, our communities, or the contribution to the economy, what has been widely disseminated, but that you are systematically undervalued — or, after all, what you are afraid is that the plan of the Socialist Party, the plan of the government will eventually come true, ends up and that is what the country, TAP has to do. Mr President, it seems to me that this is more of this you are afraid of. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But one more thing — it is important that this be clear: Mr President, as well as Mr John Gonçalves Pereira, spoke of Mr Neeleman. Mr President, you have put Mr. Neeleman in the company! It was PSD and CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u165	And who gave the check now?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u166	But the honourable Member also spoke, as well as Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of such EUR 50 million that had to be paid. Mr President, let us be clear: it is true that the Socialist Party and the Government have managed to turn an invoice of EUR 300 million into just EUR 50 million, because you put a gentleman in the company who had EUR 225 million of supplies and more than EUR 90 million of obligations. True, you don't need to thank. But we will not forget the responsibility that you have had when you have privatised the company in an absolutely wrong way, the horse mackerel, as I have already mentioned, and in the twenty-fifth hour. No one can forget that! The Socialist Party won't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u167	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u168	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, honourable Member, you have another opportunity, the last chance, to say exactly what the PSD wants. And don't turn the debate into a three hundred store, as Rui Rio did, when he spoke in 300 €. No, say what you want for TAP, say what the Portuguese should expect from the PSD for TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u169	To request clarification, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP, has the floor :
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u170	Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Cristovão Norte on his political statement and I would like to say that I follow the intervention he has made, if not entirely. I do not, however, resist commenting on Mr Carlos Pereira's speech. Mr. Carlos Pereira is a sort of socialist case-study. The honourable Member seems to have not heard the debate here recently, nor has his colleague Hugo Costa, who started by saying that the CDS found it strange to have brought the TAP issue here. It is that in consistency you should say the same to the PSD. But, no, you say exactly the opposite. What you say is that it is very important to bring this issue here the debate. And then there's something else: the honourable Member should be more cautious. Your Minister, even for all the purposes we know him, is more prudent. And what does the Minister say? He says: "I deliver a plan in Brussels and let's see what Brussels tells us about this plan. » Now, for Mr. Deputy any plan serves, everything works. Indeed, Mr. Deputy is a case-study! But I won't waste any more time on it. I would like to ask Mr Cristovão Norte two questions. The first has to do with Mr Neeleman's "golded parachute", which means a big, heavy parachute with a lot of money, with 58 million euros. So I ask: Mr. Member, this business, that contract, that agreement, that understanding must be monitored by the Court of Auditors or not? This is the first question I ask you. Then I would like to say the following: in my political statement, I spoke about such socialist selectism a little while ago. That is, when we have a governor, a minister, who, in the parliamentary committees, speaks in the representation of the Portuguese people, the leftmost benches, all happy, applaud, but then, at the time that same government, that minister signs a check of 55 million euros, the left pretends, "swifts aside" and says nothing. We haven't heard a word about it yet. Secondly, I would like to ask you whether you do not think that, from the leftmost seats to the left, and on Mr Pereira, frankly, I do not expect a great answer, on the part of the CFP and BE, on the issue of Mr Neeleman's 55 million, there is a total silence. I would like to know what you think of the honourable Member in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u171	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u172	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, the PSD and the CDS have brought the debate, with some amendments, not only the same subject as the same political statement, which could even be ironic, because we are again before the PàF (Portugal to the Front), and this brings us back to the process of privatization of TAP and to the mistakes that have been made with the process of privatization of TAP and therefore to the bad memory that leaves that process. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't so bad what happened, they could still try to escape this debate. But the fact is that private management, the way in which it was done and the way in which PSD and CDS, during these last discussions on TAP, have tried to bleach what was the action of the private shareholder, Mr. David Neeleman, who seriously harmed the company, is absolutely unbelievable, so perhaps they should reconsider the privatisation contract that the PSD / CDS government has signed and the consequences of that. I would also like to highlight another important issue because, apparently, not only do they come here to make a revival of the PàF as, at the same time, they have selective amnesia in relation to the process carried out in 2016, in which the Government of the Socialist Party decided to enter to obtain a majority of the company's capital. And if you remember — and you may go to check, because you have clearly forgotten — the criticisms on the part of the Left Block had exactly to do with the fact that the State is entering the capital of the company, but not taking up management of it. That, yes, would have been absolutely essential. So, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen don't remember, they can do it. Finally, I would like to say that the right has once and for all to be clarified in this debate. The Liberal Initiative seems to be more concerned with the manager's salary than with anything else, which, therefore, if it weren't so bad, would lead to a humorous sketch. But the PSD also has to tell what is coming in this debate. We haven't been able to figure it out in the last few months. Do you think the company is strategic for the country or not? What is important to the Portuguese economy or not? Is it necessary to safeguard jobs or not? What is needed to safeguard what comes from the point of view of exports and thousands of companies selling directly to the TAP, particularly small and micro-enterprises? That's why the right doesn't have one word to say. And more: what the right has done in this debate — I will even finish, Mr President — is to use workers as a form of political jet, without having a single word to speak about what is in the restructuring plan, what is known as layoffs, pay cuts and suspension of company agreements. I repeat : about this the right does not have one word to say. And you know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It is because it is very comfortable with the redundancies that may exist from here to the front — this is clear in this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u173	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u174	Mr Cristovão Norte, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u175	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, you alluded to the fact that during my speech I had put on my arms, and you are right. Do you know why I hug? Because I'm outraged at this situation. [[PSD applause.]] I am outraged at the fact that the Portuguese have to pay EUR 3, EUR 7 billion! And I am surprised that the Socialist Party's bench is engaged in dealing with a plan that does not know and is not diminished by the fact that the Government rejects presenting the plan to the Assembly of the Republic in all its details so that Parliament can vote on it. The PS looks like an acepal being. He accepts the plan without knowing it and says it's good for the Portuguese without those who are mandated to know the plan and to evaluate it they can know it. It is unbelievable that the Socialist Party's development in this matter is unbelievably unimaginable! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u176	Mr President, I would like to say the following: you say that we are like nine weeks ago, or nine months ago... No, Mr, we are not; for nine months, we have already put EUR 1200 million there, and we are going to continue. The Minister, who is from your party, said here, first, that layoffs were not inevitable and then said that EUR 1200 million had to come. And we asked: "Do you arrive, Minister? Or is this going to be a public money ice cream? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And the Minister said: "No, in principle it is so! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And the Socialist Party's bench applauded standing, urging the Minister's words, as if that were an acknowledgement of the unusual trust they always devote to him without any scrutiny and without any evaluation. Mr President, with regard to territorial continuity, I would like to say the following: in the privatisation that was made there was a strategic partnership agreement establishing a set of obligations to the private sector. Do you know who removed many of these private obligations that were expressed there from financial balances to others? It was stagnation, it was the grotesque ambush of the Socialist Party when he wanted to complain, proclaiming to seven winds that the company is public and that the people are in charge. That is what you have done, and that is what you should be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u178	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, in a business like this, in which no one realizes to what extent the state has been harmed, because there was a clause that established that the private could go out for EUR 10 million, how do 55 million are delivered? The Court of Auditors, like any other entity, has to look at the terms of this business, because at this time the Portuguese do not admit a barbarity like this without sufficient legal basis to support it. That is what we fully agree with. But once again, we found a deafening silence on the side of the Socialist Party's bench and, as I was asked, and well, also on the benches of the Left Block and the PCP. But these are the apparent alliances that often do not decouple in this Plenary, but that have determined the country's policy. Mrs Isabel Pires asked me: "Well, is the debate very important, but and the PSD...? » I would like to remind Mrs.Deputy the following: the PSD, did several studies to prepare this privatisation and pointed out that it understood that the company was a strategic company, surely, but never said it was strategic at all costs. That's what we don't accept! [[PSD applause.]] What does it mean for the company to be strategic that not an empty proclamation of content and that pushes the Portuguese to support it regardless of the efficiency, regardless of the quality of service, regardless of the costs and regardless of the profits it has for the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u179	Mr. Deputy, you have to shorten.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u180	So, to finish... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u181	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Deputy finish. Mr Cristovão Norte, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u182	Finally, I would just say that I believe it is important for the House to consider this when privatisation is taking place. If the company was not privatized, it had no capital to acquire new planes and had gone to a restructuring process when the country was on the brink of bankruptcy and could not be financed. That was the best decision and what happened in the last five years was the worst that was done to TAP, workers in TAP and the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u183	We move on to the political declaration of the Left Block. To that end, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nine months ago, Ukrainian citizen Ihor Homenyuk was tortured and murdered by the Portuguese State. This heinous crime occurred in the premises of the space comparable to the temporary facility of the Lisbon airport and three inspectors of the Foreign and Border Service were charged with the crime by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The conditions under which this murder occurred must alarm us, not only for the extreme violence of the act and for the attempt to conceal it, but also for having been practiced while the Ihor was unjustly detained and having counted on the convivence or at least the neglect of the hierarchy. Temporary installation centres and comparable spaces are places of detention where people who have not committed any crime are found, being detained only because of their undocumented status as undocumented migrants whose entry into the country has been refused. Most people feel they're being treated as criminals. They are deprived of their freedom and of contact with family and friends and do not have adequate legal support, nor do they have a translator or interpreter. They are the target of abuse of all kinds of arbitrariness in the form of denial of rights, humiliation, intimidation and aggression. These situations have long been reported by organisations defending the rights of migrants and refugees and by the Ombudsman. In recent times, there have also been a number of complaints from the public of people who have been arrested in the Lisbon airport area, which show that this is not an isolated case, only unfortunately had more tragic consequences. These migrant persons and their legal representatives report that the attacks on detainees are common. The room where Ihor Homenyuk was beaten to death was known as a space where people arrested were humiliated and assaulted. This was, unfortunately, an announced death. The Left Block immediately requested an urgent hearing with the Minister of Internal Administration, in order to ascertain the political responsibilities of those who have the protection of the SEF. The Minister, both at the hearing on 8 April and yesterday, took on the commitment of rapid investigation, the clearance of all responsibilities, the assumption of consequences without regard to who and changes in the structure of the SEF. But the few measures taken in the meantime are far from what is necessary. There was a requalification of the space facilities comparable to the temporary installation centre of the Lisbon airport, but this was nothing more than a cosmetic operation that did not alter the structure at all. People who are not allowed to remain in Portugal are still being arrested, and this is unacceptable in a democratic rule of law. Only strong public and media pressure ended with state silence. The national director of the SEF has, at his request, abandoned the office and the State after having ignored and neglected the Ihor family, finally decided to pay him compensation. The government treated this murder as if it were a mere path accident, an exceptional spot in a police institution in another exemplary way. But what this heinous and shameful crime reveals to us is the failure of an outdated and inhuman model to deal with immigration. A model that initially treats migrant people with distrust and suspicion as a threat to security. Migrants and asylum seekers looking for a better life, as so many Portuguese and so many Portuguese have done in the past and continue to do in the present, cannot be treated as suspects or criminals until proof otherwise. They must respect their rights and be treated with all their respect and humanity. The rule of law shall not be suspended when crossing the entry border in Portugal. We need a welcoming policy based on a humanist approach that respects human rights and values the diversity and contribution they make to Portugal. It is necessary that the reception of migrant persons and asylum seekers should fall to a designated body for this purpose, with officials and officials with strict training, which ensures the same respect for human rights as is guaranteed to citizens and national citizens. An administrative body that receives and not a police officer who represses. It is necessary to ensure at all stages of the admission process access to specialized legal support, interpreters and mediators, the support of non-governmental organisations operating in this area and consular support. It is necessary to abandon, once and for all, the model based on the detention of migrant persons, including minors. It is urgent to end these prisons and implement alternative models of detention, which respect the freedom, autonomy and rights of migrant persons. Alternative solutions exist, have already been tested in other countries and should also be implemented in Portugal. It is also necessary to end the security of the State's relationship with migrant persons living in our country who continue to have to deal with a police officer in order to deal with mere administrative matters, such as obtaining a residence permit. Is Minister Eduardo Cabrita the right person to implement the profound changes that are necessary and urgent? The answer is « no ». Because of his conduct in this case and his manifest inability to question the current model of State relations with migrant and refugee persons, the Minister has already shown that he does not have political conditions to remain in office. Migrants and refugees deserve more respect and humanism, they deserve better than remedies in a system that has proved to have failed for a long time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u185	Mrs. Members, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification, and Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias informed the Bureau that she intends to answer two to two. First, you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u186	Mr President, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, I would like to begin by welcoming you for bringing this issue to debate, an episode which very much confronts us all, and which translates what can be most grotesque in our society. In fact, this seems to be an isolated case. It is clear that, fortunately, in our country we do not have episodes that assume this gravity, however, from a systemic point of view, it reveals an institutional culture that is indeed questionable. And because of this, I do not want to create a generalisation which could in any way undermine the serious work that many of the professionals involved in this structure do, particularly at the level of humanitarian missions, in the reception of foreigners, and which do so in a serious and dignified way, there is, however, a component and a dimension of this crime that is of great concern to us and which cannot be ignored, in particular by the government and the guardians. In view of this, it seems to us that, on the one hand, there is a lack of timely answers, which have not occurred, but also a lack of vision and restructuring which should already be shared with the Assembly of the Republic and which is not happening. I would therefore like to ask you from the outset if you are accompanied by the concern about restructuring, because if there are aspects of the security dimension of our borders that are effectively responsible for the solutions of the police security bodies, there are other aspects, including humanitarian or even social or labour and administrative charities, which make no sense in the hands of an entity with a lifting of the criminal police body. So we follow what you said. We cannot continue to treat foreign citizens as criminals and it seems to us that this change from the point of view of institutional culture, but also public policies in our country, obviously has to be done. The current model is, in fact, expired, as you mentioned, and we would like to know whether, in the way of this restructuring, there has to be a prior internal evaluation and also an auscultation of the sector itself, of the professionals who make up this structure, so that there can be an identification of job improvement opportunities, but also the end of the model that includes private security in this context, which is something that has not been spoken of, so that it is called what is right for: the police, the administrative bodies, what is administrative bodies and the humanitarian mission that is all of us, namely the reception of refugees. I wanted to ask you if you agree with this vision and this path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u187	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u188	Mr President, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, there are no words for what happened to Ihor Homenyuk under the custody of the Foreign and Border Service. That is an absolute gravity, it is heinous, there are no words to describe, and therefore, as we have said — we said on 30 March, we said again on 8 April and we insisted on saying — there must be a complete clearance of all responsibilities, whether they are criminal or the disciplinary forum, of all the actors who contributed to this murder or who, in some way, have committed themselves to it. It is also necessary to draw lessons at the level of direction. The Director of the SEF resigned following an interview, but what we think is more serious is that she did not quit following a murder. That is the bottom line, and that is what we are concerned about. Of course, we believe that the responsibility of the Portuguese State to the family, in particular with compensation, and all the support that must be provided must be as brief as possible, if we are still going to be in good time. But what is needed is that these things do not happen, and this is about taking measures, not on the surface, but on restructuring of the SEF, which justifies the deepening of the separation of police functions from the administrations and ensuring the intervention of external entities that can go to control and guide the performance of the SEF, such as the Portuguese Council for Refugees and the Order of Advocates. In fact, what this shameful situation reveals to us is that every time an immigrant arrives, every time someone asks us for asylum, every time someone tries to access our country, we cannot treat this situation as a police case. That is not acceptable and must be exceeded. It is not acceptable for someone looking for our country, looking for a job, as happened to Ihor, to be one night with handcuffs and ligatures to hold him hands and feet, no longer to talk about the rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u189	In reply, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u190	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by Mr Inês de Sousa Real and Mr Alma Rivera, who are very relevant questions. I shall begin by answering the questions that Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has asked me about the fact that, when we deal with what happened, which exposes all the violence and barbarity that happened in the SEF, we are putting all our strength, the whole structure in question. The question is that this was the most visible face of violence, impunity and discretion that occur in temporary installation centres or in spaces comparable to temporary installation centres. This violence needs to be combated, and it needs to be done systematically. We need to think of a model that looks at the reality of the vulnerability of asylum-seekers, migrant persons, and that addresses this vulnerability. Therefore, professionals working in the SEF should have continuous training on migration issues, should be specialized in migration and should know how to respond to the vulnerability of people who often do not dominate the Portuguese language, who often come from war contexts or places where they are persecuted and therefore have specificities in their treatment. Therefore, there can be no temporary formations, which take place in a short period of time and then have no continuity. That is the account of what has happened. If we do a restructuring of the mode of reception of migrant people in the ECID ( Continuing International Distance Education ), the workers of the Foreign and Border Service will also benefit from this remodeling, because it is another view about a Foreign and Border Service from which migrant people have a quite negative view. That is to say, it seems to us that we live in two different countries: a country where migrant people have no rights, are treated with casualness and an alternative form, and another country where this reality does not happen. It is necessary to join these two countries, to match these two realities so that all people can be respected and also so that the workers of the SEF can see their recognized work and not be associated with these negative messages and this frightened way of looking at the SEF, because many migrant people do not have resources, alternatives or tools to be able to respond to the violence they are subject to, and there are many complaints in this regard. Another important aspect is that it was necessary for the Government to make an agreement with the Advocates' Order. This agreement has been provided for in the law of foreigners since 2007. It took 13 years — 13 years! — to make this agreement and it only happened after someone died, it didn't happen before. So there are serious political responsibilities here. There are international reports that denounced the conditions under which people were installed in the installation centres and which also made recommendations for improving the conditions, one of them being that legal support was given right at the first moment, right at the first interview, which is the moment when the problems happen. This legal support did not happen or, when it did, was not exercised continuously. The lawyers faced obstacles to reaching their representatives and, when they were able to arrive, often the interview had already taken place, all the arbitrariness and discretion had already happened, there was no longer much to do, and the people had already been arrested.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u191	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u192	It is this opaque way of acting, this way without hierarchy, discretionary, in which each one decides what he does, which needs to be fought. This is also what despised an institution, and no institution wants to be represented as chaotic, disorganized and violent. Mr. President, I apologize for the delay. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u193	However, Mrs Mariana Silva had also registered to request clarifications, but the Bureau had not registered. However, I reiterate the appeal for you to be present. Members signed up in good time. You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Bacaler de Vasconcelos, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u194	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias for her speech and tell her that both I and my parliamentary group share not only her dismay but also her impatience. It has spent a long time, almost ten months, and what has been found in numerous initiatives for the establishment of disciplinary processes, for the initiation of criminal proceedings, has shown the existence, as the honourable Member mentioned, of a truly institutional culture, which goes through less-expected sectors, by an attempt to conceal, which has dragged and delayed the clarification of the facts, and, salutefully, public opinion has contributed to the lack of clarity of the crime and shame of this nature. Many investigations are still under way. What has long been desirable, but has not been done so far: a profound restructuring of what is weak, perverse legal framework in the reception of immigrants. It is the restructuring of the SEF, it is the integration of the first interface with those who intend to cross the border and reach us, of the first interface not of a police nature, but of a humanitarian, administrative nature, that we need not to sustain the continuity of this culture, these procedures, these infamilies. Mrs. Deputy, I'll leave you with just one question. Mr De Lampedusa said, in a beautiful Visconti film — that I had the opportunity to invoke a few days ago, when the North-South Council of Europe Prize was delivered to a feminist activist from Tunisia and the President of the Palermo Chamber, Sicilian — that "something needs to change so that everything will remain the same". There is nothing more forward than making a few heads roll so that nothing is changed, so that the responsibilities are not cleared up, so that they do not go, as Mrs Deputies recently required, at the bottom of things, at the bottom of the responsibilities. And we're together in this fight. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u195	To make a request for clarification, Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened at Lisbon airport is a shame. I'd say that joins the Left Block from now on. Everyone has already recognized this, everyone recognizes this and those who do not recognize it are not being serious. But what divides us and what can divide us is the evaluation... [[BE's protests.]] You do not bother because in certain things we think the same way, because it is good that we think the same way in human rights. Anyone who thinks he owns morals or human rights is not a true humanist. [[BE's protests.]] But what concerns me also and that we should be even more concerned is how we are going to get out of this, because what is strange is that the Socialist Party, which took the positions it took in the last few days, can hear Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias's speech, which is very respectable, and can agree with the vision it has for the SEF : for the PS, which has been in the government for five years, after all, the law of emigration—it was the PS that changed it—it is already a shame, it is no longer inclusive. The government has always forgotten the temporary facility, for which the PSD has been drawing attention for three years, because the number of immigrants and tourists deserved better conditions. How can we talk in this way about the recent past when the government leaves EUR 23 million of Community funds to be used to improve the conditions of immigrants arriving? And now you want to restructure the SEF? Oh, my God! Now, at the end of five years, have you remembered, after the fifth director of the SEF, what after all is the SEF that is wrong? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, what happened is a shame! I hope the sinners will be punished! We will improve the SEF, we will not extinguish the SEF. It's just that there are a lot of people who were what I wanted. Let's restructure this security service. Let's have a serious discussion. We are not going to make the mistake of wanting to call all SEF inspectors criminals, as will be done with those who are guilty. We will protect a security service that is important, which must be more humanist, perhaps, that must have even more training, of course! We'll give him conditions. We're going to let the security service have the inspectors you need to do your job, the facilities you need to give conditions to the people who seek us and who don't embarrass us. It is that many of those who are now concerned, especially the Socialist Party and the Government, have made their ears dull to Mr. Ombudsman's report, which is already the third year that speaks of it! My ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, we will have different views, but they have the same objective. I believe that there are no conditions for reform, whatever it is, with a minister who is the country's generalized chacot. And if the Prime Minister agrees with this and thinks he has enough strength to do so is because he sees himself in what is Eduardo Cabrite. And Eduardo Cabrite is increasingly the mirror of a disgraced government! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u197	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u198	Mr President, I greet Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias for the opportunity and update of the subject she has brought to debate. The purpose of the Foreign and Border Service is to ensure the control of persons at borders, foreigners in national territory, to prevent and combat crime related to illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, to manage travel and identification documents of foreigners and to conduct the investigation of asylum-seeking procedures, to safeguard internal security and individual rights and freedoms in the global context of migration reality. What happened on March 12th with the Ukrainian citizen Ihor contradicts everything that is stipulated as the mission of the SEF, since instead of protecting a citizen, inspectors of this service, according to what has already been learned, they will be responsible for his death. This inhumane attitude with a human being, subject to various acts of atrocious violence, which caused him death by mechanical asphyxiation, is something that we can only classify as a heinous crime that shocks and shames us all as Portuguese. In view of this scenario, we must demand both judicial and political consequences. For the Greens, there is an urgent need for serious reflection on the SEF, its means, its methods and the arrangements for its supervision, which, integrated in a broader approach on all internal security and not only of reaction to these events in particular, can force a profound reformulation or restructuring of the SEF. What is really at stake is the guarantee that the State must ensure the fulfilment of human rights in public places and the duty to guarantee and ensure the principles of the democratic rule of law. Don't you agree, Mrs. Deputy? More important than the change of faces will be the realization of a true immigration policy, in which international protection is ensured to all those who need it, in particular as regards the most vulnerable, respect for human dignity and respect for human rights. And this is only possible if we train the human, technical and material services appropriate to the performance of the intended tasks, with clear and precise guidance on the mission to be carried out. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u199	In reply, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u200	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions of the Bacalar de Vasconcelos, Duarte Marques and Mariana Silva. I would like to begin by answering the question « how do we get out of here? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have come out of this situation when we recognise — and it must be a national recognition — that the central issue of this problem is the way migrant people are treated in Portugal. The first contact of migrant persons in Portugal is made through the Foreign and Border Service. And all this culture, all this imagination that devalues people, that subalternizes them, that puts them in second-class citizen's place and in the criminal's place, is that it allowed this barbaric crime to happen. We will only be able to get out of this place when we accept that what we have to transform is the model, that what we have to transform is the way we welcome migrant people in Portugal. If we maintain models based on detention, we will continue to perpetuate the same system, which will, in the long term, enhance a new death. That's what we need to do. We need to understand that the system that we have makes migrant people, to make their identification documents, have to go to a police station—it was the same thing if I had to go to a police station to do my citizenship card. This is what happens: they have to go to the Foreign and Border Service, even if it is to their administrative services, they have to go to a police station to make their documents. We cannot believe that migrants are equal to criminals, that migrants are equal to dangerous, that migrants are equal to those who must be watched, that must be controlled. We can't keep thinking like this. We cannot continue to have this reference and we cannot continue to have this model.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u201	Of course, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u202	That is what worries me, because nine months have passed and there has been no deep reflection on the model. I repeat, the problem is the model. It was this model that caused the death of the Ihor. It was not only the SEF inspectors who killed him, it was a model that was not monitored, a model that was placed and left loose. That is what needs to be corrected. And we're just going to get out of this situation when we look at and recognize this reality and recognize the way prejudices and discrimination infect our society and condition the way foreign people are treated. There are other models. Other European countries have other ways of welcoming migrant people. They have open systems and other models that we can study and transport to Portugal. It is very important that this process be done with an extended discussion in Portuguese society and with those who have structured thought in migration, people who are migration specialists, migration laws and who are well aware of migration law; people who are economists, who know the contribution that migrant people make to the country; people from non-governmental organizations, who know all the human rights violations that happened to the people they work with. So we have to create these conditions and this group so that these cover-ups, torture, cannot happen again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u203	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u204	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that if the one who protects the SEF has so far not made the transformation that was necessary, then he has no political conditions to be responsible for this transformation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u205	The political declaration of the CFP follows. To that end, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existence of a properly structured public service of culture throughout the territory is essential to democracy, it is a right of all and it is a factor of progress that needs to be valued. As a guarantee of free artistic creation and cultural use, the State must ensure a strong component of public funding and ensure the independence and autonomy of the creation of private interests or strict market logic. It also has to view culture as work, and work has to be with rights. All those who today work and live from the arts and culture go through a moment of real challenge to their own survival. Fat despair among many of those who are already resisting delays, cancellations and loss of work, depending on the solidarity of others. They are forced to sell their working materials to scrape away so they can feed their mouths at home. With the pandemic, it has been shown that the blanket, which has been too short for many years, is also crushed. The damage is not only the creators, the structures, the workers of culture, in general, the artistic and cultural fabric, it is from the country, it is from each one of us. The social value of art and culture cannot continue to be despised if we want to be more than a poorly occupied area. Therefore, in addition to urgent measures, it is necessary to radically transform all the yeast that has enabled the disaster situation currently experienced in the arts and culture, to reach workers who have lost income and who have not yet been able to access the support provided through social security or the Ministry of Culture itself and to combat the stopping of artistic activities, ensuring the financial means so that they can even multiply and happen with all the necessary health security and appropriate at the time we go through, as proposed by the CFP for 2021 and as approved in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u207	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u208	Support for artistic creation needs to be increased, ensuring that the budgetary strengthening of the CFP proposals reaches the ground as quickly as possible. In addition, the transformation that is required is drastic so that the arts and culture get rid of the pressure operated by the great private interests, which find in free production and cultural and artistic use an obstacle to their project of economic and ideological hegemony, pressures that often find support in successive governments, who have coexisted badly, very badly, with the idea of a living cultural fabric, critical, interventionive, free and popular. The PCP argues that it is urgent to look at the arts and culture in a radically different way, as an effective public service, in which the fratricidal struggle for access to the so-called competitive financing ceases to make any sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u209	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u210	It is enough to hear every year that ‘this’ theatre company, ‘that’ plastic artist or ‘that’ producer or ‘that’ cinema director are excluded from public funding. It makes so much sense to say that, this year, some schools have funding and others do not, that health centres will have support or, until they are eligible for such support, they will not have it, because, by continuing everything as it is, problems will not be solved, they will get worse. For this reason, the CFP advocates the need to change the entire public financing system to artistic creation, either at DGArtes (Direction-General of the Arts) or at the ICA (Instituto do Cinema e Audiovisual). Yes, more budget is needed, but it also needs a plan and the courage to confront the gigantic market interests, such as streaming platforms and the need to defend Portuguese cinema with the transformation and enhancement of the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual, as a public service body.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u212	It is also necessary to take urgent action in the area of cultural heritage. The very limited and insufficient budgetary measures in this area must be implemented as quickly as possible, such as the reactivation of the National Plan of Archaeological Work and the interventions to safeguard and enhance cultural heritage, despite the proposal by the CFP that they be much further and in a much fairer sense. In fact, the systematic destruction of archaeological heritage in the Alentejo which has been recorded by force, above all, of the agribusiness revealed, with all clarity, that what is needed is the strengthening of the means of the State to safeguard cultural heritage and not to abandon it when it destroys or alienates and grants to the waste, for profit and profit of the great private interests, when it works.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u213	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u214	The recruitment of more workers without precarious links and the existence of more technical and material means for the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage and dependent structures, such as the regional branches of culture, which leads to long-term stabilization, allowing all the functions and missions to which the State is affected to be properly fulfilled, which, quite rightly, should also be considered for national museums, palaces and monuments. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, only with fundamental measures in all areas of the arts and culture will be able to end at once with the enormous precariousness that affects their workers: from highways to archaeologists, from actors to guards and guards of the museums, from light technicians and sound to dancers, from musicians to museumographers and educational service technicians, and out there, in each of the professions. All of these workers deserve to see their dignity and their labour and social rights fully fulfilled. This is the way to defend the public service of arts and culture, and of culture as a pillar of democracy, which the PCP will continue to tread. This is the time for the demand and the proposal, but it is also the time for the struggle to achieve rights. We'll be there to do it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u215	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification from Mrs Ana Mesquita, who informed the Bureau that she was going to respond in two sets. Therefore, to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Alexandra Vieira of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome the CFP for the initiative to bring here the debate on culture. Now, the workers of the culture of all areas, from music, dance, theatre, cinema, sound, light, stage technicians, highways, wards, educational service technicians, among many other activities and professions on which culture depends, are not working since March. It is necessary to define an urgent, comprehensive response to the sector, which takes on the costs of these structures which have not been working since then. It should be remembered that the workers of culture were the first to suspend their activity and it was also they who made company, free of charge, on the Internet to the millions of Portuguese during confinement. Isn't this also a public service? We can't turn their backs. The country cannot turn its back on them. The government has to assume responsibilities in this sector, from which thousands and thousands of families are supported, on a nearly always precarious basis. That is why I need to do so much more than what has been done. The State and the Government have responsibilities in this area. The answers given in the context of the economy, in addition to being very small, do not apply at least to the cultural sector. On the other hand, as already noted, funding for artistic creation is not exactly cultural support. They are generally located in large urban centers, penalizing the rest of the territory. Finally, and taking advantage of the fact that we are at arms with a pandemic crisis and with attention focused on people's lives and on the social and economic crisis, speculative interests and predators make terraplanes as if there were not in the Alentejo tomorrow, rooting out everything that is archaeological evidence of all times. Is there not, therefore, the need to deepen the legislation — I ask the honourable Member — and also to provide the structures with more technical, financial and, above all, human resources to prevent these irreversible destructions of unclassified and unknown heritage? Add to this situation the cuts, from long ago to this part, in the number of people who work in museums, monuments, sites, libraries, archives, laboratories, which are, too, structures to need renovation works, and it is also necessary to renew their workers, under the penalty of ever losing knowledge acquired in years and decades of practice. Finally, I would like to ask whether the honourable Member understands that culture deserves, in all its scope and multiplicity, another policy, which, for the time being, responds to the immediate need for survival, another policy that gives structural response to the sector, empowering it, supporting artistic creation, whatever it is, with dignity and contributing to the cohesion of the country as a whole. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u217	For the next requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I congratulate you on bringing to the Assembly of the Republic such an important and current issue as that of the difficulties that cultural workers are experiencing. The culture sector has been massacred over the years through chronic underfunding. That is why, in times of crisis, this sector, already weakened by the neglect with which each of the governments has looked at it, suffers quite profound consequences. With the pandemic we live in, the government has two options: to let define the sector or to save culture in Portugal. For the second option, it is necessary to make a public investment consistent with the real needs. As long as the Minister of Culture is making announcements in the late afternoon of another measure, workers, agents, men and women of culture will continue today without knowing what to do with their lives. The uncertainty is a lot. We know that problems reach many sectors and reach this sector in many countries, as we saw yesterday by the great demonstrations of cultural workers in Paris, but this is not any sector. We have said that culture is more than a right, it is a need of people, of those who do it, produce it and live it, but also, increasingly, of those who enjoy it. The drama that is being experienced by the workers of culture must still be seen from two dimensions. I therefore ask you two questions, Mrs Deputies. First, on the immediate support for these workers, asking whether it does not seem that the Government has to find faster mechanisms to bring workers in the sector, who are desperate, emergency support for their survival. The second question concerns the priority given to this sector, questioning the way in which it is necessary to ensure the objective of more funding in the State budget subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u219	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u220	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block and Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. I believe that they go a long way towards what was our political declaration today, that is, a great deal of concern about what is a dramatic situation that cultural workers are experiencing, with the stops of activity, cancellations, delays, which are in fact a problem that has a very immediate reflection, which is the loss of income. There is a very concrete issue. Many of these workers, even though they ask for support, either for social security, either through the lines established by the Ministry of Culture, often because they do not have the regularized situation at the level of contributions or at the level of finance, cannot access these support, being left out. On the other hand, the support of the Ministry of Culture was of a competitive nature, and, therefore, it left more people outside, since it was not possible for these people to ensure their survival. We, PCP, have made several proposals for these situations to be corrected. At first, when the pandemic measures began, we proposed the creation of an emergency fund to address these situations, but also during the State budget we presented concrete proposals so that there would be a response to the dramatic cases that are currently living. With regard to what determines all this — it is true, Mrs Mariana Silva — we are talking about a chronic underfinancing of culture, which is a right and even a pillar of democracy and cannot continue to be underfinanced. In addition to what has been said about relief, emergency situations, which are now being recorded, there is a need for substantive intervention. — such an alternative approach, another policy that enhances culture and the arts, which prioritizes, in terms of financing, in particular, achieving the goal of 1% of the State budget, as we have long been claiming. But in addition, in addition to the budget proposals, there is a practical and direct issue that can have an obvious response from the Government, which is the intervention in what are the fundamental problems. And in the underlying problems we have a number of questions, ranging from the lack of workers—and the CFP even proposed the hiring of 250 workers to the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, a proposal which has unfortunately been rejected—to other issues that have to do with the planning of State intervention to ensure the existence of a true service of culture. This requires knowledge, land mapping, proposals, reflection, debate with all those involved and the elaboration of a plan that responds to this need to structure the public service of culture in our country. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u221	Good afternoon, everyone. There are also two requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Mesquita. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Rosário Gambôa of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members and especially Mrs Ana Mesquita. I would like to tell you that, in fact, the concerns you have raised are also ours. There is no one in this House who may be indifferent to the emergency situation in which the workers of culture live or, better, in which the culture lives, because how much their workers live is culture and we are all affected—as I said and very well, what I subscribe—in a right of citizenship, in a right that is diminished. The honourable Member has pointed out — and I also agree with you — that perhaps the main problem is this chronic underfinancing, a huge deficit that transcends the sector, and without funds it is often difficult, as the people say, "to make eggless omelets", such as hiring 200 workers or properly qualifying some services. I completely agree. Just as I fully agree when it says that structural measures are needed. And structurants in such a way that they can be a solid background to culture. However, what I do not agree with is that, despite everything, and even in this difficult situation of contingency, there is a path that has been taken. It is a difficult path, that is, it is not always easy, it does not always have all the conditions that would be desirable, but it has been made a way. Among other things, the honourable Member spoke, for example, in the model. With regard to competitive models, it is important to say that during this year the Government has met with several entities and will now be published for public discussion the model of review of DGArtes. And why is this done? Because it is recognized that this model has deficiencies and needs to be improved. It is this work that we are all called upon to do, for the improvement and improvement of what is important to the country and that is our ambition, as a whole, to gather in the best possible way. As far as financing is concerned, the situation is different there too. It must be acknowledged that, even during the time of the pandemic, many measures have been taken. They never ceased to exist measures and in the first months they came out with a 15-year fluency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u223	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u224	I will finish, Mr. President. I am referring not only to a reinforcement that existed, for example, at the level of the Supplementary Budget, where 70 million were introduced. Now, Mrs Deputy, we must also remember that there is a way: from 2015 to today, the Budget for the Arts, in particular, and for artistic creation has risen 95 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u226	Is it necessary and little? It's little! But on this path, which we are committed to continuing, we believe that the CFP will be an ally, as it has now been, when it strengthened the State budget with a proposal of itss, that we accompany and that we greet very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u227	For the last request for clarification, Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Mesquita, whenever anyone brings the debate in Parliament, culture, the PSD Parliamentary Group applauds and accompanies. Of course, because we too, at the right time, and back then, have called for an urgent debate on this matter. In fact, culture, in this environment in which we are, being a highly fragile, much more informal, much more intermittent sector—sometimes I even felt as if it was composed of a 'people' a bit strange that serves a 'people' it also strange—the culture in Portugal, which had a huge set of weaknesses, was hit by the pandemic, and, being hit by the pandemic, the expression 'no one stays behind' was replaced by the expression 'all stay behind'. When they looked for answers on their own site, which was the Ministry of Culture, they had zero, as we know — zero! And given the lack of answers, for the worst reasons, today the culture sector is much more united, but united in misery, I repeat, united in misfortune! Today, when we talk about culture, we just say what it is: go to the Ministry of Economics, go to the Ministry of Cohesion—"do anything, but don't go to the Ministry of Culture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u230	... that there is no answer to your problems there». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u231	Madam Member, perhaps we share the diagnosis, but we do not share the solutions. The truth is that today, in Portugal, there is no capacity of the Ministry of Culture to answer the specific issues of culture. And what is asked is: it will be possible, at least — at least! — no longer ensuring the right to difference, which was due to culture, but I repeat at least the right to equality? Is it possible to create conditions so that they can access transversal support, considering the specificities of culture? Because otherwise they will continue to stay behind, and therefore when the solutions leave some behind, they are not the solutions that we are interested in.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u233	It is particularly embarrassing that there are some who do not realize that culture is much more than spending money. Culture is employment, it's investment, it's internationalization, it's companies, it's people who have to be protected. Culture money is not spent, culture money is investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u234	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u235	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I end with a very serene and very direct question. Mrs Ana Mesquita is confident and convinced that what she said there on the rostrum can be done by this government? For this minister? For this Prime Minister? Is this government going to make that change? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u236	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u237	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Rosário Gambôa and Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, thanking me for the questions they have raised. The question that arises here, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, in relation to the path that has been taken, is that it is a path that is not enough and that often goes in the wrong direction. It is for this matter that we have been alerted here. In relation to the model of support for the arts, in particular, it is a path that is at the leagues of the one that the PCP defends.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u239	The honourable Member also said that this model has inadequacies, but it is worse than that. This model of support for the arts should be in the trash can, because it has no remedy. What is needed is to consider a radical change in the model of support for the arts, in fact, of all artistic creation, because also in film production there are issues that need to be profoundly changed. In addition, she recently referred to the 70 million Supplementary Budget and I was asking, Mrs. Member, although she knows that she cannot answer me, where they went, in particular, to whom they arrived, on the ground, because there are many people who continue to say that she did not see a single tot of these words that came from the Supplementary Budget. Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira says culture is fragile, formal and intermittent. But this is not by chance, Mr. Member, the result of the political options of successive governments, including the PSD and CDS governments, which have not appeared here today,... [[Protests by PSD Member Paulo Rios de Oliveira.]] ... and that have weakened, destroyed and compromised the cultural and artistic fabric of our country. Therefore, things do not fall from heaven into the tangles and we must assume the responsibilities of the PSD in the situation to which we have arrived today. It is clear that it is necessary to do so — and we have said this, with all certainty — and to ensure that the workers of culture now have a solution. But then, Mr President, it is also because of the concrete positions that we see things, because in the State budget, in relation to culture, we had about two dozen proposals that could all have been approved if for example they had counted on the positive votes of the PSD and the CDS. But they didn't count! She's freaking out... [[PSD protests.]] They preferred to be the mule, often, of the PS options,... [[PSD protests.]] ... not making it possible for the CFP's proposals to improve the State budget and ensuring that everything was in it. It could have been different, Mr. Deputies. At the same time, he asked the CFP if it was possible that the measures we considered in our intervention could be carried out by this government. I tell you how they can be achieved, Mr President: it is by the strength of the struggle of the workers of culture, of the structures, of the creators, of all those who live in the arts and culture, with the proposal of the CFP in the Assembly of the Republic that this will be possible. Mr President, when in concrete terms the CFP brings the proposals to be voted on here, we will see how they will vote on the PSD, the CDS and the right in general on these matters. And this challenge is also posed to the Socialist Party, because we will bring forward the proposals to solve the problems. Cultural workers can count on the CFP for them to be effectively resolved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u240	We have thus reached the end of the political declarations and entered the second point of the agenda, with the assessment of Petition No 82 / XIV / 1. a ( FENPROF ) — The reopening of educational and educational establishments should be preceded by testing together with the Resolution Project No 652 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By providing free COVID-19 tests to teachers, non-doctoral workers and students. For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) and the petitioners who bring us a cross-sectional concern to the school community in times of pandemic. On the one hand, the understanding of the need for testing, which, in the case of the petition, applied before returning to the classrooms, but which is maintained by other Parliament initiatives, as a relevant issue. Secondly, the petitioners are asked to guarantee distance education for students who test positive or who, because they are at risk, are at home and cannot be present at school; and thirdly, health prevention measures. These three issues do not exhaust the problems and challenges of school in times of pandemic, but they are important and it is important for Parliament to discuss them. Some of them are still questions with no definitive answer, as is the case with the tests. We still have much to learn and know about the effectiveness of mass tests. See what happened now in Slovakia, where mass tests did not prevent widespread confinement. If it is true that tests are important to avoid outbreaks, it is also true that what they do is a photograph of a group of people at a given time, and can therefore cause a false sense of security in the face of a risk that is not static, but rather dynamic. Therefore, on the question of tests, we propose that there be the possibility of sampling, in school communities, in public schools, in school groups; that the way that this is done and determined follow health guidelines of specialists, so that it is not an arbitrary logic and there is a defined picture and guidance by who perceives, studies and knows of the health struggle to the pandemic, by health specialists; and, thirdly, that the epidemiological state of schools is known. We believe that these matters are consensual. Parliament, the community and society need to have information about school and education in times of pandemic. There must be statistics, but they do not exist. There are no statistics and there are no balance sheets, neither pedagogic nor sanitary, of schools in time of pandemic. Then there is also a need for students who are at home to be able to attend classes and not to lose their feet at school, and this is not being done. We have received many contacts from parents, mothers, education officers saying that staying at home for 15 working days means that their children lose 24% of the first period because, in the time they are at home, the school can't accompany them directly and pedagogically. And why? Essentially, because there are no teachers. Here we come into another matter, which has to do with the weaknesses of the system. The tests are important, the uniformity of procedures in case of outbreaks is important, but all this is the end of the line. Before that end of the line there were things that could be done in the field of prevention. The reduction in the number of students per class, for example, would have been possible in many schools. The Left Block proposed, but it was not accepted. More officials could have been hired in the summer to disinfection and clean up schools, rather than what happened, with the government going after the damage, hiring officials as far as possible and it was necessary to respond to the complaints of the schools and to the alerts of the honourable Members. Directors of schools and trade unions who did not have enough employees to ensure health safety. Thirdly, more teachers, more incomplete hours, more ability to attract teachers to the system, in a year we know to be delicate and in a system we already know to have few teachers for what would be necessary. None of this has been done. The Left Block brings here a part of this debate, which is raised by this petition, which has to do with the possibility of testing and health information on pandemics, outbreaks and cases in school communities. However, this does not go out of the question, the problem of educational challenges in times of pandemic, and that is the debate we want to continue to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u242	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We thank FenPROF and petitioners for this discussion, in substance, on the safety, confidence and health of all educational communities, taking into account the health context in which we live. We take advantage of the role of schools and their educational agents, who, despite the lack of timely guidelines, have from now on made every effort to reduce risks and mitigate situations of infection. In this regard, I would like to recall that since March, the NAP has proposed measures to prevent and monitor educational contexts in order to ensure what everyone wants, health. We have, of course, followed the concerns of daycare and pre-school education when they were reopened, putting a number of questions to the government that aimed at ensuring the safety conditions and testing of these professionals. We accompanied the concerns of families and teachers who, on returning to present education, felt somehow anxious about the risks they might be taking or the risks they could put others at. We have warned of the need to reduce the number of students per class, compensating, to the extent possible, the lack of conditions for compliance with the necessary physical distance, but that, in the case of schools, we know that it did not have the same requirement by DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ). We also noted our concern with the teachers who included risk groups. We know that it is a class with a high age rate, which requires a specific rejuvenation program and that, due to some health situations, it integrates risk groups. in this sense, we presented proposals for the protection of these professionals, because, being at risk but not being ill, it makes no sense to be subject to medical leave, and can also guarantee support for students who are in distance classes or other school colleagues. This would certainly be possible, not only if there was political will, but also if the so-called plan for the digital transition of schools, which, after all, has not yet passed. We therefore follow up with the proposals and concerns of FenPROF — which are legitimate in our understanding — with regard to the promotion of a secure school. Although the school year has already begun and this petition aims precisely at this beginning, we understand that there is a lot that can still be done and resolved. We must applaud the efforts of educational communities to ensure the protection of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u244	Mr Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has asked the country to start the school year and resume the present education with responsibility and serenity on the part of families and education professionals. The PSD agreed, and continues to agree, with this design, but we cannot agree with the typical opacity of countries of the old Iron Curtain. We do not embark on the tide of negationists, laxists or selfishs to deal with the extreme difficulty in managing the pandemic situation in school context, but we consider it essential to ensure the conditions of serenity for teachers to work and students to learn. The petition we are considering today postulates that the reopening of schools should be preceded by testing. He entered this House last May and was subscribed by about 4500 citizens, who take advantage of it to greet. We all know that the classes started again and the schools reopened without prior testing. For analysis of this petition, as is the case with many others, requests for information were sent to several entities and all responded. All but the Ministry of Education. In June, the PSD questioned the Minister of Education as to whether the government was planning to trace the education professionals. Of course, without surprise, there was no answer. The opacity of the information is so much that even DGS status reports no longer contain information disaggregated by the municipality in respect of confirmed cases of COVID. In this regard, in November, the PSD questioned the Ministry of Health, but, of course, without surprise, there was no answer. The government, when treating citizens and school institutions with distrust, causes tension, anxiety, fears and mistrust in educational communities. Schools begin to accuse the effects of almost nine months of management under the daily threat of the new coronavirus. In several school groupings more people than in many countries in the country, groups with more than 2000 students, to which employees, teachers, education officers and a pandemic need to be joined. On the contrary, in France, it is published weekly on the official website of the Ministry of Education the situation regarding the number of closed schools, confined classes, number of confirmed cases of students and educational professionals, as well as the regions where they occur. But we do not need to leave Portugal to find good practice in this matter. We look at the Regional Government of Madeira, which, through the Regional Health Directorate, daily updates the information on the epidemiological situation of COVID-19, with the cases confirmed in school context by age scale and area of influence of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u246	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u247	The Ministry of Education created a platform for directors to report cases of infection or quarantine. The « platform for monitoring the epidemiological situation in the school environment » aims to « simplify the monitoring process », as if possible in the bureaucratic health of the Ministry of Education, which loves computer platforms to fill with data. currently, there are 42 platforms— 42! — that they do not produce relevant information, so often duplicated, to be returned to schools and their educational communities. And in this case, there is no need to trust those who support the education system and those who are the reason for their existence. It is not possible to evaluate the current situation of schools, to perceive their evolution and to compare it with the national indicators of contagios, to measure the effectiveness of existing health protocols in schools and, finally, to make the necessary adjustments, whether they are health or educational.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u249	In addition — of course! — the options taken can not be scrutinized. As this government propagates with everything and doesn't report on VOCID at school, we can deduce that the omission of information means that: the recommended in the National Testing Strategy for SARS-CoV-2 did not arrive at schools; computers, such as would be delivered to students on the first day of school, did not arrive at schools; students at risk, in most situations, do not have sufficient conditions to accompany classes; and teachers with risk diseases are unable to work safely, constituting a huge waste of resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u250	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u251	I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting Camões: « Cases, opinions, nature and use/ make us look like this life/that there is no more in it than it seems. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u252	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, although they are not present, and say that, although the petition has been delivered referring to the beginning of the school year, before the opening of schools, what they ask, in essence, makes sense and remains. The Government itself agreed, as I had the occasion to recall last week, since, in October, it announced the National Testing Strategy for SARS-CoV-2, which reported that, in an outbreak situation, for example in educational establishments, rapid antigen tests should be used preferably, carried out by public health teams indicated for rapid intervention, in conjunction with municipal partners. This plan, as I said, was presented in October and, until today, neither schools nor teachers nor students have seen any realisation. Last week, when I presented a draft resolution for this same purpose, the PS voted against. It will certainly not be against your own government, I assume it is against the CDS only, even when we propose what the DGS has undertaken to do. In fact, what really matters is that educational communities feel and are secure and that, in the second period, the government clearly improves the performance it had in the first period. As long as this does not happen, we will be sending in intermittent and recurrent teachers and students home, while they lose classes, and imposing on parents systematic costs and changes in their lives. It is therefore enough for the Government to comply with what it has committed to, that the draft resolution of the CDS should have been approved, but we will not be accompanying this draft resolution of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u254	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joaquina Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u255	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Regarding Petition No 82 / XIV / 1. a ( FENPROF ) — The reopening of educational and teaching establishments should be preceded by testing and the draft resolution of the Left Block in the same sense, testing throughout the school community, I must say that the definition of criteria and testing priorities, as well as any subsequent measures in the school context, is the responsibility of the health authorities. It should be noted that the school year has elapsed within normality, in compliance with the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health. From the first moment that educational and teaching establishments responded to the COVID-19, creating contingency plans in March, which have been updating in the light of the evidence of the epidemic. For the school year 2020 / 2021, the government area of education sought, at each time and in a timely manner, to create instruments of support for schools and to produce and publish, in conjunction with DGS, a set of guidelines, operating conditions, rules of physical distance, hygiene, respiratory label, which was sent to schools on 3 July. In addition to these guidelines, DGS produced a reference with information that allows the various school participants to know how to handle and who to contact a case of COVID-19 or suspected of it in school environment, which was released on 4 September. Joint guidelines were also produced with DGS for the practice of physical education and school sport and the Regulation for the school year 2020 / 2021 was also adapted. By placing on prevention, videos of awareness for children and students were produced from pre-school education to secondary education, and in September was launched the media campaign # SchoolInSecurity, in partnership with the government health area, with the aim of sensitizing the entire educational community to the importance of compliance with the rules of prevention of CVID-19. Regarding individual protection measures, and similar to what happened last school year, the budget of schools for the acquisition of masks for teachers and non-teachers and students from 2. the cycle of basic education and other personal protective equipment for the first and second periods in schools. Thinking about the most vulnerable, it was ensured, through an order published in September, the possibility of applying educational support measures to students who, according to the guidelines of the health authority, should be considered as at risk patients and are unable to attend present educational and training activities, in the context of group or class. Special conditions of assessment and school frequency and educational support are provided, either in the school context or in the home, presence or distance, thus ensuring that they do not lose contact with the class of origin. In view of the increased requirements arising from the hygiene and safety guidelines, and in the area of prevention and combating the new coronary virus, a set of measures to strengthen non-teaching staff in the groups of schools and schools not grouped for the current school year has been adopted to ensure that the educational, non-teaching and face-to-face training activities take place as normal as possible. Finally, the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 20 July establishing exceptional and temporary measures for the organisation of the school year 2020 / 2021, in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, favouring the present regime but providing for the possibility of schools moving to the mixed or non-presental regime, with the appropriate declaration of the health authority and by the acceptance of DGE ( Directorate-General for School Establishments ), in order to address the possible need to ensure the response to students in the event of a worsening of the situation of the epidemic. The resolution of the Council of Ministers mentioned above also determines, for example, the strengthening and extension of the support of the tutor teacher, as well as the strengthening of the hourly credit, which has resulted in an increase in the number of teachers in public school, which is also fundamental to the implementation of the plan for the recovery and consolidation of learning. We are coming to the end of the first school period and confirm that the prevention measures implemented in schools in the context of combating the spread of the virus have had positive results, within this absolutely extraordinary, difficult and challenging context that the country is going through. When, in January, schools resume their activities, we will certainly have the vaccine, which will strengthen us in fighting the pandemic and give us confidence in the future and more stability in the lives of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u256	Mrs Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this petition, we address our first words to FENPROF, who promoted it, and to the petitioners who have subscribed it, speaking on the reopening of educational establishments in this school year and the need for this to be accompanied by tests that would be able to clear positive cases of CVID-19 and thus prevent possible outbreaks, not failing to signal that, even if the school year has already begun three months ago, this matter does not lose its current status and should be discussed in depth. In the difficult and complex times that we live in, trust is a fundamental issue for us to pursue life as normal as possible. As we know, the school community is larger than the school walls and we not only want education to be present as we recognize this need and the dangers that arise from a model that drives students away from the school. Only in school is it possible to monitor learning, identify difficulties, intervene to respond to needs. This is only possible at school. In addition, and perhaps more than that, the school is sharing and socialization. in this sharing, it is necessary to ensure the essential to ensure that daily routines are done safely, that the investment necessary for the health safety of students, teachers, non-teachers, that the investment for the hiring of operational assistants is guaranteed, so necessary to ensure the care for frequent hygiene and to monitor students. However, we cannot help but agree that the uncertainty of the days, the news that is coming about the number of infected people and the unique conditions in which they work leave the teachers insecure and anxious. Many of these professionals are close to 60 years of age and are at risk patients, being normal that fear and anxiety are installed. The rooms full of students, where you can't open windows to air because we are in the winter, bring insecurity to these professionals, who work daily with the students without being able to keep the physical distance required. This petition raises the important question of ensuring investments for the health security of teachers, non-teachers and students, which we are discussing a lot in the State budget for 2021 and which must now be implemented. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Teachers, like all other workers in public service, are not enough to thank and congratulate. It is necessary to value and respond to your anxieties and your problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u258	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP wishes to greet FENPROF for the dynamisation of this petition, which raises legitimate concerns about the need for health security in schools and the safeguarding of the school community as a whole, whether of workers, students and their families. In part, we have a recently discussed theme in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, but the truth is that this is a theme that keeps the whole of today. The health conditions for the CFP should be ensured by the Government, taking into account the guidelines of the health authorities, and the government is responsible for achieving what is required in the field of health safety. Therefore, all means must be made available by the Government for such health safety to be carried out. Of course, it would never be enough just testing. There should be much more extensive measures, taking into account, inter alia, the underfinancing approach with which education is still characterized and the level of problems preventing other solutions and other ways of ensuring, inter alia, health safety in schools. This issue, for example, of the lack of workers in schools, which we had the opportunity to mention last week, is absolutely dramatic. As a rule is adopted in the State budget on a proposal from the CFP for the hiring of 5000 assistants and administrative officers, it is now necessary for it to be implemented as quickly as possible, so that these workers arrive at schools as quickly as possible, so that they can contribute to important measures in terms of hygiene and clean-up of spaces and so that it can be ensured that, everywhere, they are the employees needed to open up all the necessary services, because in many schools we know that there are services that are not working. In addition, all personal protective equipment must exist in sufficient numbers and be suitable for the performance of particular functions. The decrease in the number of students per class, as proposed by the PCP, was a path that could have already been taken and that would contribute to the issue of physical distancement. Now, it would be a more than useful tool to deal with what's happening. Unfortunately, this was not the path followed in this school year, with a greater extension of our proposal in relation to this decrease in the number of students per class. More teachers are also needed in schools, with an incentive to set teachers. It was a proposal that we made, which could be applied and which would also contribute to a number of problems that are already identified, in particular taking into account the needs of follow-up to students who cannot be in schools. However, it cannot be forgotten that there is a fundamental tool to which the Government should have traveled so long and which would contribute to many problems being solved, which is the dialogue, which continues to be lacking, including in relation to compulsory negotiation on health, hygiene and safety at work, which would involve taking particular measures in relation to this situation of combating pandemic in schools, involving all workers in the decisions to be taken. It is in fact with education and science that we can best combat any disease and also this epidemic, with the State taking on its collective responsibilities in the management of this situation, without generating alarms and no instability that, more openly or more incapacitated, as some want, contribute to attacking public school. We defend that the Government has an obligation to guarantee all means and conditions for present education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u260	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u261	I shall indeed conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the Government must take all measures to reassure the school community and ensure health safety. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u262	We will enter the last point of our agenda, of which is the discussion of Petition No 619 / XIII / 4. a ( SINDEL — National Industry and Energy Union) — They request the recognition of the profession of workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers as of rapid wear, together with Resolution Projects Nos 658 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By regulating the worker activity of the maintenance and assembly of air carriers, with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring the safety and health conditions at work and the adequacy of access to the reform, and 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement scheme for workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers. You have the floor for an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u264	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u265	Mr President, if I may, with regard to the previous point, I think that in the initial time grid there were four minutes, which did not include extra time. But it may have been a wrong interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u266	Mrs. Member, when I arrived at the Bureau, I checked that they had not four minutes there, but one minute. It was five minutes, in total. That's why I went to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u267	It is irrelevant at this time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u268	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. So let's get to the last point. Mr José Soeiro of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The maintenance and assembly of air carriers, which are involved in the production of energy from wind generation, includes high-level work; includes climbing and descent several times a day of stairs with 70 or 80 meters; includes working under adverse weather conditions; includes work in places of difficult access, in places in small places; includes work that requires physical effort and ergonomic positions responsible for injuries from the musculoskeletal point of view. It is for this reality that we are reminded of the petition we have discussed, which we welcome and, of course, its petitioners, and are these exhausting conditions that characterize the work in this sector. These conditions, moreover, are not a single case. The Left Block has been alerting successively to the growth of the number of professions and groups of workers who, for various reasons, have released alerts to their working conditions. It is not by chance that there are more and more professions of different sectors of activity that address this Parliament, particularly through petitions, to recognize the rapid wear of its profession. We understand that it is necessary to ensure that workers develop their activity, whatever it is — and in this case also, of course — in health and safety conditions and that there is a regulation of professional activity which guarantees precisely those conditions. This is done in a number of ways: by strengthening collective bargaining; by means of labour legislation that protects workers and changes to the Labour Code, which we have insisted on; by reducing working hours to reduce the weariness of the professional exercise itself; by changing the rules of access to reform. We continue with rules of access to reform that imply that each year the age of reform is increased and the early reforms are maintained with a significant cut due to the application of the sustainability factor. Therefore, the Left Block, accompanying the concerns of the petitioners and the petitioners who bring us this discussion, proposes that Parliament recommend to the Government that it engage in the regulation of the profession of maintenance and assembly of air carriers in order to impose more protective and more limiting conditions in relation to the wear-out caused by this activity, and that it also provide for conditions of access to adequate wear-over reform that this profession causes. That is the proposal we make, and that is how we follow the challenge posed by the petitioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u270	To present the draft resolution of the CFP and to participate in the debate, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would naturally like to welcome SINDEL and all the petitioners who have associated with this initiative. In recent years we have seen a great increase in wind power production in Portugal, a growth that means an increase in the number of workers in various functions associated with this wind energy technology. In particular, workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers are subject to a type of work with special penosity, in addition to the safety and health risks, as highlighted by the petitioners. The realization of high-level work, subject to adverse weather conditions—which become even more adverse at altitude—, the need for a constant climb and descent of stairs with more than 80 meters of height and in very confined spaces, such as air carriers, and the provision of work in non-ergonomic positions by these workers are some of the elements that justify the recognition of the specific conditions of the labour system and also of retirement for these workers. It was in this sense that the CFP submitted, following this request, a draft resolution for this House to recommend to the Government the definition and regulation of a specific scheme for air carriers maintenance and assembly, considering its special risk and penosity. We also propose that the regulation of this scheme be articulated with the workers' representative organisations and that it do not, of course, harm at any time, any more favourable provisions provided for in collective labour regulation instruments. With this proposal, we want these specific conditions to be recognised, in meeting the demand for this petition. in a sector such as energy, which increases its millionaire profits, workers cannot end, with regard to safeguarding their safety, health and labour rights. The CFP will continue to intervene in this regard, giving expression to fair claims such as the one we are discussing today, without mentioning the need for a general valuation of wages, conditions and rights of all workers, which is indispensable for the progress and sovereign development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u272	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to make an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would initiate this intervention by addressing compliments to the National Union of Industry and Energy, which, in the exercise of civic participation, challenged the Assembly of the Republic with this petition in defence of the rights of workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers. We record the fairness of your demands for qualification of this profession as a rapid wear. The harsh conditions in which this activity develops justify it, since we are talking about a profession exercised in difficult conditions, with increased physical effort and injuries of various types that proceed there. That is why it will not, of course, be by the vote of the NAP that the qualification of this profession as a profession of rapid wear will not happen. We shall vote in favour of the two initiatives brought to the debate. However, we cannot fail to take this opportunity to remember that there are also other demands from other workers who are equally fair and who have been brought to this House for discussion. These petitions have happened one after the other and the truth is that they remain unanswered by the government. It is essential to find a solution that, not being a blanket of flaps, avoids unequal treatments, which, so far, has not actually happened. For the NAP, one of the viable solutions is for the government to set up a working group to amend the legal framework of the rapidly worn-out professions by defining the criteria for the allocation of this qualification and can then identify all the professions that can be classified. This proposal from the NAP will be in discussion and voting on the next Tuesday, obviously for the other parties to decide whether they want to solve this problem in a fair and cross-cutting way, including all the professions that have come to make this fair appeal, or whether they want to continue to arrange subterfuges to postpone the resolution of this problem affecting thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u274	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition and who have made use of this important instrument of our democracy. Through this, these citizens go to the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the profession of workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers is recognized as a rapidly worn-out profession. The Greens, of course, also extend this greeting to the National Trade Union for Industry and Energy, which promoted it and dynamized it. As a first note, I wanted to say that the Greens consider the petitioners to be absolutely right about the purposes and reasons that led them to present this petition. In fact, as mentioned in the petition text, the wind energy industry, in addition to representing the sector that grew most in the energy sector, also involves a large number of workers. Many of these workers, especially workers in the assembly and maintenance of air carriers, in the performance of their own functions and responsibilities, face a work with special penosity, but also with risks in terms of safety and health. The petitioners therefore point out without exaggeration that «the maintenance and assembly of air carriers include several safety and health challenges ». In fact, it is not only work at the height, with the rise and descent of vertical ladders, 70 or 80 m high, several times a day, these workers still deal with electrical and mechanical energy, even above in confined spaces, in weather conditions sometimes adverse and in difficult access points. Moreover, the work is developed in places that have as their common denominator the fact that they are difficult to access and in scarce spaces, which obliges an added physical effort and ergonomic positions that cause musculoskeletal lesions, mainly due to the movements or forced postures that this work requires. Therefore, in view of this framework, bearing in mind the way and the circumstances in which this work is carried out, the Greens fully monitor the concerns and objectives of the petitioners, considering that these workers should have due recognition — without prejudice to other workers who are also in the same circumstances — which goes, above all, through the review of the regulation of the profession of maintenance and assembly of air carriers. in this regulation, from the perspective of the Greens, in particular, the guarantee of more and better conditions for the health and safety of these workers, the promotion of reduced wear and also the establishment of specific conditions with regard to access to their reform. Therefore, for this purpose, the Greens will follow the legislative initiatives that both the BE and the CFP have brought us to debate, along with this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u276	It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, of course, the National Trade Union for Industry and Energy. This petition, as has already been said, has as its object something we have discussed successively in this Parliament, not only in this Parliament, but also in previous legislatures, which must have an individual consideration, but in order for this individual consideration to be possible, it is necessary to have a general framework, which does not exist. What happens in this case? We are faced with another profession — the professionals in the maintenance and installation of air carriers — which, due to the characteristics of the work they do, of course, have, from a physical point of view, a significant weariness. The qualification of this remarkable wear is something that must obey the rules, the tables, the consequences that are equal to all these professions. We cannot establish schemes of rapid wear and tear professions after each other, because it will be impossible for us not to establish any related injustices between these professions. Therefore, the CDS, already in this legislature, presented a bill to create a working group to complete a legislative process. This is due to a very simple reason: it is impossible, from our point of view, to be the Assembly of the Republic, because of the technical characteristics that such a law has to have, to be able to build the legislative solution. It is essential to have, not only on the part of the Government, but also on the part of the social partners and, of course, the representatives of the workers, a technical collaboration which is only possible in sufficient terms in the Government. What happened? At the time, on May 14, the Socialist Party rejected the CDS legislative initiative and said it was not worth approving because the government was already doing everything the CDS proposed. Therefore, of two, one : either the government is very slow to do what is its obligation and is not giving answers to these workers or, then, what the Socialist Party here told us did not correspond to the truth. I hope this is the first chance, but for that reason, I would ask the Socialist Party, who will still use the floor in this debate, to tell us, after all, when this work that was being done at the government level will produce results. this time, we are talking about the installation and maintenance professionals of air carriers, but we have already talked about portfolios, airlines cabin professionals, a series of professions that continue to wait for this government commitment to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u278	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming SINDEL for his commitment to improve working conditions and to defend the rights of workers in his sector. We also want to greet and thank everyone and all the signatories of the petition. The claims and position of the 4075 subscribers of the public petition, with the aim of recognizing the profession of workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers as a quick wear profession, deserve our full consideration and attention. On the draft resolutions of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, it is said that they are relevant to the importance of the subject matter and the need for regulation of the rapidly worn professions, despite the fact that these regulations require a thorough, reasoned and plural reflection in order to create a legal framework that serves not only a specific profession, but all professions that meet conditions of rapid wear. The challenge takes on a perspective of a global framework rather than a timely response. We fully understand the reasons put forward by workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers, who want to recognize the rapid wear to ensure their rights, in particular in the conditions of safety and health at work and in access to reform. We understand the arguments of the workers of the air carriers, but also of many other professionals who have led us, right here in the Assembly of the Republic, to debate their qualification as a rapid weariness. in this context, we have been discussing the claims of the portfolios or cabin crews for a very short time, and, by the week, we will discuss, in plenary, another set of professions that take on rapid wear. On the other hand, with regard to this subject and this debate, let me highlight three aspects which also compete for working conditions. First, the central and decisive role of the Working Conditions Authority in ensuring the effectiveness of safety and health conditions for workers, from the very point of view of the prevention and repair of occupational diseases and accidents at work and, hence, the fact that the government has strengthened the inspection of work with more inspectors and more resources. Secondly, the importance of strengthening and dynamising collective bargaining, which enables us to find the best solutions to safeguard the specificities of each profession and hence the measure of government, for example, to suspend the expiry of collective contracts for two years. Thirdly, the commitment to social dialogue and the involvement of the social partners, which must also be made on this issue of defining the criteria and the qualification of certain professions as being of rapid wear, so the social dialogue to be held on the Green Paper on the Future of Work in Portugal will also be a reflection area on this issue. It is also fair to say that the recognition and rights of workers of rapid wear and tear professions are a concern of the Government and that they have already deserved concrete answers and, hence, that the Government has eliminated the application of the sustainability factor to the pensions of the rapid wear and tear professions, ending with the cut-off in these pensions. Thus, the PS values all professions. In Parliament and in the Government, we have developed a dignified work agenda and it is on this path that, despite what has already been done, it is necessary to establish a set of standard rules that will enable us to define, in a fair and equitable manner, the professions of rapid wear and tear, as well as the promotion of effective and effective measures to mitigate penosity, with an impact on health and safety issues at work, thereby reducing the harsh working conditions and their negative impacts on the health of these professionals. Take note of the pre-eminence of very well-founded responses to the rapid wear-out professions, because there will also be a specific regime for access to the reform, in the case of air carriers workers, with the reduction of the retirement age for 60 years. This convergence and the homogenisation of social protection schemes, in order to give them greater transparency, to eliminate discrepancies and to guarantee the principle of equality, will have to be combined with the exceptional existence of a specific regime for the rapid wear professions. We are aware that the Government is monitoring and dynamizing the development of this regulatory framework for the rapidly worn-out professions. We therefore believe that, until the definition of the new rules, there should not be the qualification of rapidly worn-out professions in an avulge and torn apart of a framework of self-regulatory legislation and that it only results from a casual decision on such sensitive matters. In conclusion, we consider, of course, that the various contributions that have brought us here and that the debates we have here on the professions of rapid wear are very important, not only for the awareness of the multiple realities, but also for the knowledge and proposals that the Government and all of us here in Parliament will consider. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners, including the first subscriber, the SINDEL, National Industry and Energy Union, who, in exercising their right of citizenship, has applied for recognition of the profession of the workers of assembly and maintenance of air carriers as being of rapid wear. We recognize the importance that the industry of this sector has, either for what it represents in the protection of the environment, or for the large number of workers employed, or for its exponential growth. We set an example, within the energy of the oceans, of the particularity of the exercise of functions by these workers. The PSD is sensitive to the enormous challenges and difficulties these workers face, but the PSD does not forget all the other professions that fall under the requirements of the rapidly worn-out professions, nor of all those who, in this Assembly of the Republic, have already claimed for this design. The tasks these workers have to perform require an increased physical effort, in no ergonomic positions, under adverse conditions that cause or may cause injuries. In turn, the Left Block and the PCP, on the occasion of this petition, present two draft resolutions, also under discussion here, through which they want appreciable and specific changes to this profession. Lawmaking only for some includes inequalities and injustices and the PSD does not deal with the creation of these inequalities and injustices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u283	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the need to qualify a profession as a rapid weariness is a recurring situation in all legislatures and this is no exception. In fact, there have been a number of initiatives that aim to qualify a number of professions as rapidly worn-out. However, the PSD reiterates what it has been defending on this subject: we value all professions, we recognize the greatest wear associated with some, as well as the legitimacy of recognizing those that are worn quickly. We believe that standards should be established for the professions of rapid wear, thus ensuring justice and equity in the qualification and treatment of these professions. In this way, an in-depth, careful and serious study is required on this subject. In fact, the CDS presented Bill No. 234 / XIV / 1. a, which the PSD accompanied and in which it voted favourably, which intended to create a working group to do a study of these professions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS, to justify its vote against, announced that the Government has to proceed with an internal legislative process in order to produce a diploma in order to regulate the professions of rapid wear, adding that the Government had already been running a process similar to that proposed by the CDS and that the bill would be a redundancy. Now, where is this working group? Who makes it up? What have you done so far? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u284	It was another redundancy of harmless ads that once again demonstrate what? The inertia of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u285	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u286	Something we've been used to. In addition, in the context of the recent discussion of the State budget, the Socialist Government has said nothing or added to this debate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this matter is not resolved by means of legislation, which only serves to solve the problems of some, leaving others unprotected. The PSD argues that amendments to the Labour Code should be made through collective bargaining and social dialogue. This is the water brand of the PSD and of which it does not deviate. We reiterate our concern, our sensitivity to the thousands of workers who, day by day, work under stress and under adverse conditions, who question their safety and health. And here, without doubt, we all stand out, but especially in this time, health professionals. This should be an extended debate to all professions with these vicissitudes. We will reiterate the need to study and deepen the universe of the professions of rapid wear, but this Parliament, with the vote against the Socialist Party, has led it. The PSD Parliamentary Group is attentive and will fight for the in-depth study of the rapidly worn-out professions, so that all workers are treated equally, with the fairness and justice they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that « the times are changing, the wills are changing, the whole world is composed of change», as our greatest poet said. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u287	We have thus reached the end of this agenda item. Before announcing the agenda for tomorrow, Secretary Nelson Peralta has a communication to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u288	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I announce to the plenary that they were present at this plenary session by videoconference by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Mrs Marta Freitas, the PS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs Sara Madruga of the Costa and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD. They were also present by videoconferencing, by other subjects, Mrs Sofia Araújo and Mr Jorge Gomes of the PS, Mr Sr. Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Mr Hugo Carneiro of the PSD, and Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-16.u289	Mrs. Members, it is appropriate for all parliamentary groups to warn Members that tomorrow's session begins at 14 a.m., which is a little special time to start a plenary session. on the agenda of this plenary session, the first item shall be the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency, from 24 November to 8 December 2020, following the debate on the request for authorisation requested by the President of the Republic, on the renewal of the state of emergency and its vote. From the third point there is the discussion of draft resolution No 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to curb the increase in structural gender inequalities triggered by the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. In the fourth point, the Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime shall be assessed[ Parliamentary assessments No 32 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 34 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 35 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) ]. There is also, at the fifth point of the agenda, the general discussion of Bill No. 478 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reinforces the remuneration regime of wind power plants ( Revoking Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 of 28 February ). Finally, and without time for discussion, we still have the last point on Bill No. 594 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extends until 30 June 2021 the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, making the seventh amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARSCoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. And this is where we stay. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. The session is closed. Members' presences and shortcomings at the plenary meeting. [[It was 19 hours and 22 minutes.]]
