ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the galleries to the public. I also ask the Secretary of the Bureau, Maria da Luz Rosinha, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Resolution Projects No. 268 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Classification of cabin crew as a rapid wear occupation, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, and 269 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos. It's just, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is the general discussion of several bills along with two draft resolutions. [[The following are the following: 3 are the following: project Law No. 137/XIV/1.a (BE) — establishes the obligation and the freeness of the issue of the asset and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates the fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, and also prohibits credit institutions from unilaterally altering the contractual conditions of the claims granted to consumption (fourth amendment to Decree-Law-Law No. 133/2009 of 2 June); Draft Law No. 138/XIV/1.a (BE) — Establishs the obligation and the freeness of the issue of the loan and the declaration of settlement of the loan declaration of settlement of the loan settlement of the loan, eliminates the contractual transactions (four amendments to Decree-Law-Law No. No.139/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X/X.a/X.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.a.))))))))) — Amends are the following are the following: draft Bill of the following: Draft Law No. are the following: Draft Bill of Act No. are the following: Draft Law No. are the following: Draft Law No. are the following: Draft Act No. are the following: Draft Act No. are the following: Bill of the following: Bill of the following: Bill of the following: Draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: Draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Law No. the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Law of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Law of the following: draft Law of the following: draft Law of the following: draft Bill of the following: draft Bill of the Act, draft Law and free and the following: draft Law and the following: draft Law and the following: draft Law and the following: draft Law, draft Law, draft Law of the obligations of the obligation to (be — establishes: the obligation to (be — establishes To present the Bill No. 137/XIV/1a, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday we learned that the New Bank is preparing to ask the State, through the Resolution Fund, for a new capital injection amounting to EUR 1037 million, which will be added to the EUR 23 800 million of public funds, which, according to the Banco de Portugal, were made available to the Portuguese banks between 2007 and 2018. in this endless account of addition, state aid to the capital of the bank should still be considered in the form of tax benefits, which in 2018 amounted to EUR 3800 million. The bill passed to taxpayers with the financial system has not stopped increasing yet, but banks want more and now demand to recover their profit rates at the cost of exorbitant fees charged to customers, who are also the taxpayers. Banks are not even able to threaten Parliament with a wave of redundancies, with more closures of banks, or with disruptions in the financing of the economy, if the banking committees become limited. I therefore want to start this debate by refusing to blackmail the banks. For more than a decade, the bank lived as it wanted, financed the businesses it understood, gave credit to friends for power games in the Portuguese Stock Exchange, profited, paid bad bonuses to its administrators and even organized himself in cartel to manipulate the paid spreads. All this, of course, with the widespread complacency of power parties, but also of Banco de Portugal. When everything went in their favor, the result was less economy, less investment, less production, but more debt, more real estate, more negotiated. And it is unacceptable that, after having had the freedom to make so many mistakes, the banks now claim that their good behavior depends on freedom to spy on customers with banking commissions!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u6	Between 2007 and 2019, citizens in Portugal paid on average EUR 8 million in banking commissions per day, equivalent to EUR 40 billion. In 2019, the value charged on commissions amounted to EUR 1500 million, more than EUR 40 million in 2018. These numbers reflect two realities. The first is the increase or creation of commissions associated with basic banking services: maintenance of account to order, bank transfers or operations to the counter. In most banks, the exemptions in the case of domicile of order or applicable to young people and pensioners were replaced by new products, which are the so-called « package accounts », which are much more difficult to compare between them and much more demanding under their conditions. Today, it is necessary to have higher average balances in order to have an account exemption or, then, it is necessary to use other financial products, such as credit cards, in order to have that discount in the commissions. Customers who do not meet these requirements are thrown at prices that can easily reach the 60 € per year by accessing basic banking services. This strategy has obviously affected people with lower incomes, but it has also affected people with more difficulty in accessing online services and who were more dependent on operations on the counters, such as older people. More recently, we also saw the introduction of commissions in operations carried out through digital platforms, such as MB Way, which were previously made available free of charge. The second reality of increased commissions is the collection by operations that do not have any directly associated service. They are absurd or bizarre commissions, as the DECO called them, and include, in fact, the collection of more than 50 € for the issue of an official statement on the bank account, including the proof for the termination of the debt. No one owes anything to the bank anymore, but you still have to pay for a statement that you testify that this debt has been extinguished! And they also include a fee of 30 € per year for the processing of the credit provision. In other words, the bank charges a fee every time it debits on its client's account the credit provision that should already include all charges. It is true that the law already prevents banks from charging commissions that do not have directly associated services, but in order for this general rule to have practical consequences it would be necessary for the Banco de Portugal to be what it is not: an interventional supervisor and disciplinary of the behaviors of the bank. The fact is that banks continue to use and abuse their dominant position, including in order to unilaterally change the conditions of credit contracts. Competition, which has always been pointed out as a solution to all the problems arising from the privatization of public services in highly concentrated sectors, has had the same result in the bank as we verified in telecommunications or fuel, which was the cartelization of prices to the detriment of consumers. It is not too much to remember in this regard that in 2019 the Competition Authority condemned 14 banks for concerted practice of exchange of sensitive information over a period of more than ten years between 2012 and 2013. He writes the charge of the Competition Authority: « Each bank knew, with particular detail, rigour and modernity, the characteristics of the offer of the other banks, which discouraged the targeted banks from offering better conditions to customers, eliminating competitive pressure, which was beneficial to consumers ». On this subject, the Banco de Portugal, over more than ten years, not a word!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u8	We know that there are, at present, some cases in the market here and there of institutions that charge lower commissions, but it also begins to be clear now that these promotional prices hide other costs that often only start to be charged later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that Parliament is called upon to decide on the limitation of banking committees. This has happened in the past and not always with productive results. Some of the projects that the Left Block brings today the debate and vote, in particular those that want to eliminate the collection of absurd commissions, were rejected in the past, with the votes against the Socialist Party and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS. However, over the past few years, some progress has been made with the aim of limiting the abuse of bank fees and promoting financial inclusion. The most important is the Minimum Banking Services Regime, which should offer, in theory, a viable alternative to access to bank services at controlled costs. Unfortunately, the practical application of this scheme falls far short of the objectives, applying to less than 80 000 bank accounts in the first half of 2019 and it is now important to realize that mechanisms must be put in place to ensure citizens' access to basic services. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, access to banking services is today an insurmountable need for any citizen, and it is the duty of public policies to ensure that access is made in a just and proportionate manner. in this sense, the Left Block presented five projects that today place the debate and that affect four essential points: access to banking services, the elimination of absurd charges, the limitation of bank power in contractual renegotiations and the role of the public bank, which is the General Deposit Box. The first proposal aims to establish the universal basic account, which is proposed to replace the minimum banking services regime, correcting shortcomings that have been identified. Thus, the universal basic account will make available to all bank customers an extended set of services — an account to order, a bank card, access to homebanking, transfers — at a limited and scheduled price. This account becomes available to any individual bank client; any citizen shall have access to this account, regardless of having other bank accounts or having bank accounts associated with housing credits that may already exist without a spread loss. The second group of proposals aims to eliminate absurd committees, i.e. that have no associated service. It is therefore proposed that the issue of a non-debt declaration, the issue of a distraction and the prohibition on the collection of fees should be free of charge. In addition, it is proposed that banks may not charge fees for transfers made through brokerage platforms, such as MB Way, because also in this case banks are charging a commission for a service that does not provide, since the transfer is carried out by the customer itself through an electronic platform operated by a third party, in this case SIBS. The third group of proposals seeks to prohibit credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the conditions of claims granted to housing or consumption, so that higher rates and commissions cannot be applied than those initially contracted. Finally, and to conclude, a fifth proposal: we believe it is important to recognise, once and for all, that the General Deposit Box, as a public bank, has added responsibilities in this area. The Box should be governed by clear principles of public interest and be positioned as a reference to good practices on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u12	We know that, due to lack of clear political guidance or influence of particular interests, this was not the case for many credit decisions of the General Deposit Box in the past. Nevertheless, for depositors, the public bank continues to offer more advantageous conditions and stated itself as a pillar of stability in the system. In recent years, however, many of these customers have been confronted with successive increases in banking commissions. Since it is true, on the one hand, that the Box cannot simply abdicate from a source of revenue such as banking committees, it is also true that it must be required by the shareholder State to do so in accordance with clear criteria of transparency and justice. This is not about controlling or influencing specific operations; it is about issuing clear guidelines that protect the Box from arbitrariness and the decisions of occasion, which have proved disastrous in the past. It is therefore a matter of protecting the legitimacy of the Box, ensuring that it fulfils its role as public service and that it ceases to appear in the eyes of citizens as the institution that favored the business of large customers such as José Berardo, but that it does not hesitate to attribute the costs of these decisions to small depositors. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all the parties sitting in this Chamber have already had the opportunity to manifest themselves by the end of the abuse installed in the collection of banking commissions in Portugal. What the Left Block proposes is simple: stop bank abuse, eliminate absurd banking commissions, end the imposition of Leonine conditions on customers, ensure access of all basic banking services and bring transparency and rigor to the General Deposit Box. We will not yield to the blackmails and pressures of the bank and we hope that no party will do so for the benefit of consumers and of the public interest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u13	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record Mr Hugo Carneiro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, in order to request clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, today, there seems to be a consensus on some of the committees that are charged by the financial system, and it seems that this House seems to agree that they should finish. These are those of the banking distraction, the debt statement and the recovery of credit benefits. On this, we agree. However, what is brought about in the Left Block proposals is based on what we could call 'experimentalism in the financial system'. What the PSD proposes, which is the end of those committees, is reasonable, fair and balanced. What the Left Block seems to propose goes a lot to that and is unfair, is unreasonable and is unbalanced. The Left Block seems to enter the demagogy, wanting to ban the bank from charging all and any commission, whatever it is. We could, in the future, perhaps, get there. For now, it is enough to limit some committees, such as those charged on the MB Way. But there is not only the MB Way, there are other platforms, some of which outside Portugal, that would never be subject to the regulation that the Left Block has proposed to this House. As regards the bank service account, the Left Block proposes its end, purely and simply, by abandoning the construction of this House in the improvement of that type of account. They claim that there are few people joining the bank service account, but they ignore that, for example, from 2018 to 2019, there was a 75% increase in the number of people joining this type of account. However, they bring a new account, the universal basic account, based on an act of faith that this, yes, has solved the problem of commission collection. I remember that services such as MB Way, today, can be exported, which the Left Block proposal ignores, thus ignoring that national technology can be exported. With this, it is not possible to make any contribution to increasing unemployment in the sector, blocking the innovation process or invasion of the national market by foreign platforms. Question : Who will innovate in any sector, and also in the financial sector, if there is no possibility of these institutions charging anyone who is a fair price? It is no price whatsoever, it is a fair price — there, we agree. How does the Left Block propose to tax, for example, foreign operators operating in Portugal from abroad, to the detriment of national operators, who would probably disappear from the market? How does the Left Block respond to the need of institutions to continue to invest in combating money laundering, in computer security measures, if they cannot charge for their services? What do you think the Left Block that the universal basic account brings back that the bank's minimum service account does not have today? Can't this be improved, as the Social Democratic Party proposes, for example? The Social Democratic Party defends a fair and balanced legal system. What we think the honourable Member has presented is precisely the opposite and it is a system that will not contribute to consumer protection at the end of the day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u15	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, a further Member of Parliament was appointed to request clarifications. I wonder if you would like to reply to Mr Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u16	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u17	So you have the word for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u18	Mr President, Mr Hugo Carneiro, I shall begin with the demagogy of the Block which you referred to
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u19	It's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u20	The honourable Member has just said that the Bloc wants to ban all and any committee. So we are talking about demagogy, since the Bloc proposals are very clear on what committees we want to eliminate and what services we intend to create in order to ensure banking services to citizens. With regard to MB Way, the Block proposal aims to eliminate tax collection by banks by using digital platforms, whether they are MB Way or have another name. I regret that the PSD has taken so long to reach the consensus that it says there is about the collection of absurd commissions. I congratulate him, however, for having done so. If I had done it sooner, these committees would no longer exist today, but it is worth more late than ever. Finally, on what is unfair or fair, you have said that you think it is unfair to limit the fees charged by the banks, which means that you think it is right that the banks are spying on customers with bank fees for everything and nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u21	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u22	Yesterday, someone told me, in conversation, that any day the banks charge a fee to someone who puts a foot inside a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u23	Don't give me any ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u24	This is precisely what we want to limit: abuse of bank fees. I am sorry that instead of taking sides with anyone who wants to protect bank customers and consumers, he has put himself in the role of bringing the threats to the bank, saying that, if there are limits to commission collection, they will no longer prevent money laundering, there will no longer be innovation, there will no longer be economic growth. Mr. Member, the banks have been charging commissions and therefore have not prevented money laundering until now! I therefore advise you not to take so easily the blackmail that the bank is doing and to stand aside for the interests of consumers and banking customers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u25	To make a request for clarification, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there was a time when loaning money to the bank paid, in which the bank gained its copper to collect deposits and apply them on credits, in which the bank was gratefully receiving the payment of loans. That time is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u27	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u28	Today, it is necessary to pay to deposit, pay to return what is due and, not arriving, a certain bank is concerned about charging commissions for everything that moves. The world is on the contrary, so soon after a financial crisis that has already cost the Portuguese more than EUR 20 billion. What this crisis has shown is that competition fails and that we need rules that promote financial stability and protect consumers. This is the debate that starts here today, with consensus in variable geometry. Everyone wants to do something about distractions and debt statements, so that everyone can know and prove how much they should or even nothing should. Both the Block and the PS want to protect citizens from unilateral changes to credit contracts, and the PS also proposes to include the products and services associated with the credit contract. But perhaps the most relevant aspect for those who elected us is the commissions on the MB Way, this innovative solution that already has 2 million consumers and that will certainly not be the only one. After an initial free bait, one after one, the banks begin to charge disproportionate and anti-competitive commissions on this platform because they charge for the use of the appMB Way, but do not charge for the use of the MB Way by the bank's app. The PS proposes to end this discrimination and the committees of small operations so that innovation can flourish, yes, and its profits can be shared between bankers and consumers. This cannot be the reason for threatening to limit the use of MB Way, the closure of counters or the dismissal of workers. Public interest and legislative will cannot be conditioned by this blackmail.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u30	But if the digital brings great benefits, it also brings great risks, Mrs. Member, such as tax evasion or money laundering, something, indeed, that the Block has come to recognize in other instances. in this case, this risk is not in the small day-to-day operations, but in the abuse of the solution to move large sums of money repeatedly. Not strong with the weak or weak with the strong. I therefore ask you: Is it not a safe, sensible and effective way to protect financial stability and the user of the bank and MB Way? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u31	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Miguel Matos, as I said in the previous reply, about distractions and commissions due to debt extinction or recovery, there seems to be a consensus. These committees will end, and well, because they're absurd, they're weird and they don't make any sense. But there is another problem, which is to know how the power of banks is limited to charge commissions and to create new commissions in an unmeasured way or to alter contractual conditions, when customers cannot escape this contract. That's why we need to go further. The prohibition of commission collection on transfers through MB Way is a good way to do it. I must remember that the Portuguese multibank network, which is unique in the world, has been developed without charge of commissions. By law, operations carried out in the multibank network are free of charge and thus did not prevent the network from developing and creating national and own technology. What the banks are doing is something else. In fact, banks want to end the MB Way platform because they are integrating into their services and their websites the operations and services provided by MB Way, in order to extinguish the digital platform created by SIBS, that, yes, national production, that, yes, can be exported. Banks now have a conflict and are a barrier to the development of national technology with regard to MB Way. Therefore, I have already told you that if it is to develop national technology, whether it is to bet on the development of MB Way or other platforms created in national territory, we certainly have space and willingness to discuss these issues in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u34	It does not seem to me that the control of money laundering is done only because higher transfers are charged. There are other mechanisms to control money laundering. Nevertheless, in the field of expertise, we will certainly have room to discuss this issue. What does not solve the problem is the PSD proposal, which knows that minimum banking services only reach 80 000 people and therefore hypocritically says « we want to ban charges on MB Way, but only for minimum banking services », i.e. only for the 80 000 people with minimum banking services. A more interesting discussion, Mrs. Members, perhaps that is what we can do to ensure that all citizens have access to basic banking services, because we recognize that they are a public service. There we have to discuss, yes, how to extend the minimum banking services and the Block proposal is that we create a basic, free, universal bank account to which any citizen can access. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u35	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ownership of a bank account in order or a debit card for its movement is today a basic necessity for the overwhelming majority of citizens. As such, access to certain banking services should not be subject to the possibility of banks abusing their position to charge excessive maintenance fees. The price of bank accounts maintenance committees has not ceased to increase, assuming increasingly expressive values. Between 1990 and 2018, banking commissions tripled their weight in the structure of the banking product, moving from one tenth in 1990 to one third in 2018. at the same time, the financial margin decreased by 80 % to 68 %. These data show that the bank is increasingly dedicated to the commission collection business, rather than to the financing of families and the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u38	Following or facing the liabilities of successive governments, the administrations of the General Deposit Box, instead of asserting a strategy for differentiation of the public bank, adopt online management criteria with the private bank as well as with regard to banking commissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u40	The Government cannot go beyond these box options. The State is the sole shareholder and, as such, must assume this position of shareholder,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u42	... an shareholder who, like anyone else, is interested in and monitors management and who is not irresponsible, but also an shareholder who guides the bottom-up options by criteria of public interest and not by criteria other than or even contradictory to the public interest. The CFP will monitor the various projects aimed at ending abusive banking commissions. We need to give that signal and work in the specialty. But the problem will remain-CL until it is allowed to banks that continue to invent new names for committees. Even if a particular committee is prohibited today, tomorrow it appears with another name and the Banco de Portugal does nothing. So our option was to come to this debate with a proposal to extend and make the bank service account free of charge. The minimum banking services already exist and their regime has been improved last year as a result of several legislative initiatives including one of the CFP. However, it was necessary to make a measure that the CFP has defended and that it presents again: to end the requirement of exclusivity of the bank's minimum service account. Today, it is enough for a bank customer to have another bank account in order not to be able to access a bank minimum service account. What we want is that this limitation ceases to exist, and it is certain that each person could have only one bank minimum service account. For us, minimum banking services are not a kind of « bank account for the poor ». The second bill that the PCP brings to this debate concerns the rates that are being charged on digital platforms, particularly on the MB Way. We propose that, in the same way that multibank charging is prohibited, the same digital platform operations should also be prohibited. The digitisation of banking services has enabled banks to increase their profits as it reduces their operational costs. That is why the bank has widely promoted digital applications for ease of transfers, payments and other operations, which is an example of MB Way. These applications, when promoted, are presented without cost to the user, which brings them a marked expansion. After generalized, we have seen the implementation of costs associated with these operations, which penalize customers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u43	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u44	The introduction of these rates continues to be linked to the old ambition of the bank to charge for the use of the multibank, which will have the strong fight against the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u46	Unlike the other proposals, the PCP proposal makes no distinction between digital platforms operated by third parties, such as MB Way, and platforms developed by banks themselves. What makes a multibank transfer cost-free, but if it is done in homebanking it already has associated costs, being an even more dematerialized medium?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u47	And how!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u48	We are confident that, in the specialty, it will be possible to improve the aspects of each of the projects and arrive at a solution that saves the banking customers who use these platforms today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of MB Way, speaking of multibanks, it is fair to recall that in Portugal we have one of the most advanced systems in this matter. And as for the multibank, we remember that this pioneering system arose at a time when the bank was mostly public. Yes, it was the nationalized bank that made this innovation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u49	Exactly! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u50	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u51	contrary to what we heard there, the multibank well shows that the thesis that only in private is that there is innovation is totally wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u52	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u53	And the recent reality also shows that the private bank, in addition to being unable to fulfil its role of financing the economy, also increasingly dominated by foreign capital, when it produces an innovation — and we recognize the MB Way as a good innovation — so it has the massive product, only a few months ago, already plans to place commissions and fees to appropriate the surpluses resulting from that innovation. To this end it is clear that the option for the future, as the CFP has reaffirmed, is to ensure public control over the bank, placing it at the service of the economy and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u54	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: EUR 1,500 million was the value that the General Deposit Box, the BCP, the BPI and Santander took up banking commissions in 2019, representing an increase of EUR 40 million vis-à-vis 2018. These values are exorbitant and have resulted from successive increases in commissions that have occurred in recent years. In the first six months of 2019, bank commissions increased more than 780 times in Portugal. According to Deco Protest, in 2019, more than 60 % of the bank's revenue in Portugal came from the collection of bank fees. Today, due to the NAP and other parties projects, we discussed the imposition of limits to these excessive practices carried out by the bank to bridge the historically low interest base due to the action of the European Central Bank. These excessive practices harm elderly people who are unable to change the way they consult their accounts or to change their banks, harm couples who, due to the housing loan, have to account for each remaining euro in the account at the end of the month and push young people who seek to make the first savings for more modern and less expensive alternative solutions, such as PayPal accounts. It is on behalf of these people that we must seek a consensus that achieves solutions with some urgency. We must act, because it is clear to everyone that the bank is more concerned with the easy short-term profit than with the stability of its customers, insisting that it will not see that this kind of stance will call into question its existence in the medium term. With this bill that we present here today, following the recommendations of the Deco Protest, the NAP proposes the elimination of a set of five commissions in which there does not exist as a counterpart a service provided by the banks, as in fact requires Article 7. the Law No 66 / 2015. We propose the necessary clarification of that law so that banks can not continue to steal on their compliance and unduly charge bank fees. Specifically, with our bill, we propose that five committees be eliminated. Some of these have already been classified by Deco Protest as « bizarre commissions », so it is important today to talk a little about each of them, so that what is at stake is understood and why they have to be eliminated in order to effectively comply with Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July. First of all, we start with committees associated with brokerage platforms, such as MB Way, which are the most recent commissions and which largely affect younger customers. The use of these platforms by option of SIBS, the platform manager, began to be free. However, banks have seen here a source of income and therefore, despite this being a service operated by third parties and the amounts traded are low, since 2018 banks have been charging fees for these platforms. Today there are five banks that do: the BPI charges 1, 20 €, the Agricultural Coat charges 0, 25 €, the Millennium BCP charges 1, 20 €, the Santander charges 0, 90 € and the General Deposit Box charges 0, 85 € and more 4 % of seal tax for each transfer made. With what legitimacy can a bank impose bank fees for a service that not only does not provide, as, worse, is a service provided by an entity that, by choice, does nothing want to charge for these services? For the NAP, bank customers have the right to technological modernisation without this costing them more and therefore the way is to prevent banks from covering bank fees for these services, something because the principle that under Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January applies and applies with respect to the use of automatic boxes should be applied. Secondly, we have bank fees associated with the processing of credit benefits and the analysis of the renegotiation of credit conditions, in particular the spread or duration of the credit contract. As pointed out by Deco Protest, these two committees deal with mere computer procedures in which there is no type of customer service, which in the credit agreement has already agreed the payment of the capital in a number of benefits and which supports the interest contracted. However, even though the customer has already paid this service when he signed his credit contract and despite the law preventing fees in cases like this, the processing of credit benefits costs between €2, €50 and €3, which may lead to a bank customer’s annual payment of €30 for a service that he has not received. It is in order to respect the rights of bank customers and what the law now provides that the NAP wants to prevent the collection of these commissions. Thirdly, we would like to refer to the banking commissions associated with the issue of the distraction by the borrower at the end of the credit agreement or in the event of early repayment. These commissions are absolutely incomprehensible, because the bank customer who has already fulfilled all his obligations to the bank will only be able to see that the mortgage burden is removed from the bank if the bank's distraction is issued. However, despite this document being compulsory, its issue is processed automatically and the customer has fulfilled all its financial obligations to the bank, the customer will only get this document if it pays around 160 €. Here you go, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one more case in which it is urgent to guarantee the rights of bank customers, because banks are not complying with the law. Fourthly, we have the banking committees associated with the issue of debt declaration documents, their charges or regularisation. These are unfair commissions, since bank customers, either for tax purposes or for social support, often have to obtain from banks debt declarations related to loans, be the debt value, be the value of the monthly benefit incurred. However, although the customer has already paid this service when he signed his credit contract and this is an automatic issue document by the bank without relevant operational costs, a statement of the monthly benefit value costs on average more than €39 and a declaration that attests the debt value costs on average more than €61. Another case where there should not be bank commissions, but where there is why banks continue to make a table of the applicable legal framework. Fifth and last, we have the committees associated with the change in ownership of the deposit account to order. These commissions amount to almost 5 € and serve only for banks to change the ownership of an account, placing it or withdrawing a holder. We are faced with a mere bureaucratic act, without operational costs and which does not imply the provision of a real service by the bank. Damaged are young couples who want to build a common life or parents who, because they are older, need the help of their children in managing their bank accounts. In conclusion, the NAP project, implementing the applicable legal framework, prevents the collection of these five commissions I mentioned. However, we are open to the fact that, in the field of specialty, one can go further and seek to ensure a consensus that introduces limitations to other commissions that are currently charged without truly providing a service to the bank client. What we want is to ensure that the rights of bank customers are strengthened, putting an end to disproportionate, unjustified banking committees that do not have any service as a counterpart. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What brings us here today is a joint will, clearly visible by the existence of projects of the various political parties which, despite their differences, have only one purpose — to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u59	The economic and financial crisis in 2008 has demonstrated to us the importance of strengthening consumer rights with regard to financial products. Indeed, in recent years a set of regulations has already been implemented with a view to their pursuit. We are all aware that, in a demanding monetary context, with interest rates at least, the bank, through its traditional banking business model, saw its profitability, its key word affected. Therefore, it has resorted to consecutive increases in bank commissions as a way of obtaining profits that otherwise would not be able to obtain. In our legislative framework, there is already a set of rules on financial products and services that impose various limits or prohibit certain committees in order to defend consumers, particularly when they provide for the mobility of bank customers, their financial inclusion or even an incentive to use certain payment services. However, they do not seem to be sufficient. Today we continue to witness numerous complaints, expressions of concern on the part of consumers, who are affected by these successive increases. And this Parliament cannot be indifferent to this problem. It is important to ensure that there are principles of transparency, proportionality and loyalty to consumers. And that is the commitment of the Socialist Party. In addition, today we are witnessing a new paradigm, resulting from innovation and technological development which, fortunately, also reaches the financial system. With this new digital age the bet on technological capacity brought to the consumer a more comfortable, faster and cheaper access, justified by the compensation of the reduction of pressure on banking agencies which, in this follow-up, have already been reduced, as well as the number of its employees decreased. This incentive to use new platforms, to which consumers have been encouraged to adhere, cannot now be broken, so continuity must be given for services to be accessible, not only technological but also economically. But we cannot distance ourselves from the reality mentioned here: associated with innovation also come new challenges to the safety of systems, data protection, from the fight against money laundering. We must therefore ensure and ensure that the bank's investment is not neglected, because it is necessary to combat these new risks. The system must, on its own, ensure the safety and trust essential for users to enjoy these services freely. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore seeks to find a balance in maintaining the sustainability of the financial system, an essential condition for the country's economic development, and at the same time safeguard the interests of consumers, assuming a relationship of trust between them and the bank. in this context, our proposal provides for the prohibition of unilateral amendments under the terms of credit contracts and associated services, the obligation to issue a distraction within a reasonable period of time without the need to require the consumer and the limitation on the costs arising from the issue of debt declarations. Let me describe, in more detail, the measure contained in our proposal on the limitation of commissions on financial platforms. With this proposal we intend to respond to the most recent outrages caused by the disproportionate appearance of commissions to be charged in transfers via MB Way. MB Way is a living example of Portuguese innovation capacity and everyone should be proud of it. It was the first instant payment solution in the euro area and currently has nearly 2 million users who have been attracted by the speed of transactions, the ease and intuitive character of the platform and the lack of costs. We cannot now allow the same to be seen only as another source of income. But because we are aware that it is necessary for the bank to continue to invest and that no measures can be taken that could inhibit investment and innovation, we propose not the total exemption of the service but rather the allocation of an exemption up to €100 per operation, by transfer, in this case, because the MB Way does not only allow transfers has many other operations, with a monthly limit of €500 and 50 transfers. We believe that in this way we reconcile and safeguard three essential vectors: financial stability; technological development; and consumer protection. And with this I return to the beginning of my intervention, saying that our bill has only one purpose: to defend, safeguard and preserve the rights of consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u60	The honourable Member has two requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u61	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u62	Of course. You then have the floor for the first request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Vera Braz, the theme and the projects that the Left Block brings today are not new. The value of bank fees paid by taxpayers increases from year to year and only in 2019 the main banks in Portugal have raised more than EUR 1500 million in bank fees. We cannot say that these numbers are unknown and so already in the past legislature we brought this debate to the table. At the time, projects that eliminated commissions by credit delivery processing, for example, were rejected with votes against PS and PS and CDS-PP abstentions. We note the progress made in this debate, particularly the PS position, which is the novelty of the debate. For our part, we have already said it, we could and should have moved forward to protect consumers earlier at the time they rejected these projects. We note this progress, but we do not forget that the behaviours of the banking system, despite this, have not changed, having a significant advance, which has to do with MB Way, which the honourable Member also referred to in her speech. However, in our perspective, it is not worth keeping the blackmail that eliminating fees will prevent Portuguese technological development. We believe that the debate should have been on the contrary, that is, we are working so that the elimination of this collection, which is fair, does not stop this development. in that, yes, we must all work, so I ask you how the Socialist Party intends to work in this direction, without blackmailing technological development. Then there are two issues which seem to us to fall short of this debate by the PS, first of all the minimum banking services regime. In our perspective, it must be extended to all and to all, it must reach all people, because it means a need that today is undisturbed. Does the PS intend to meet this need? Secondly, I mean the General Deposit Box. Despite all the attacks that have been made, the Left Block has always beaten the defense of the public bank and what is lacking in our view of the PS position in this debate is whether or not it is felt that the Box should fulfil its role as public service for the protection of the most disadvantaged customers, the productive economy and the defence of equality in access to banking services. Finally, starting from some of the considerations that you have made in your speech, which are going to meet something we have already mentioned, I ask you whether the PS is available to approve all the proposals from the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u64	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the projects we are discussing today are aimed at trying, although, from my point of view, without success, to solve two problems: first, to collect commissions on electronic platforms, as is the case with MB Way, manifestly abusive and disproportionately charging a value that is very excessive for each transaction. On a transfer platform, especially low amounts, there is no point in commissioning, for example, corresponding to 25 % of the transferred value. It's completely disproportionate. The second problem has to do with the collection of bank fees without the effective provision of services. What is not being discussed and which is not going to be solved by any of these projects has to do with several facts. First: many of these committees are already illegal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u67	What we have is a bank supervisor and supervisor who does not work and a regulation that either does not work or does not work in good time. I'm going to remind you of some of the facts: Members in Portugal, in 2012, there was a bank that denounced serious practices of distortion of competition and the existence of a cartel in the bank. For seven years — seven years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — there was an investigation and, finally, for the first time, a decision was taken seven years later. We can be optimistic and imagine that the good news is that, finally, something has happened, but the fact is that seven years is not useful time to make decisions, neither on this nor on anything, and it is also true that the bank that denounced the situation no longer operates on the Portuguese market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u68	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u69	It is therefore necessary for this Parliament to reflect heavily on the failure of the regulators. It is also worth not forgetting that both the Multibank network and the MB Way platform are developed by SIBS and that SIBS is held by banks. I wonder if there will be no competition problem here and if we should not look seriously at this. Thirdly, I would like to recall that in Banco de Portugal there is prudential and behavioral supervision and can not systematically conductal supervision close the eyes, because prudential supervision overlaps. I will translate this: it is not acceptable for the Banco de Portugal to say « let the banks do what they understand in the committees, because otherwise there are failures and it will be necessary for taxpayers to put money there in another way». This is not acceptable, but at least there is the perception that this can in many cases happen. So what these projects are saying is that, since there is no supervision and regulation that works in conditions, we will try by law to do the function of the supervisor and regulator, that is, we will try to predict everything and something else, we will try to ban everything and something more and we will, through hyper-regulation, replace ourselves with the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u71	As for supervision, I would like to say that the CDS has not only openness to work on the topic as it will present serious proposals, as it has already done in the past, on financial supervision and separation of these two pillars of supervision as to behavioural and prudential. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to realize that these proposals may have good intentions or may wish to appear that they have good intentions, but, in fact, they are misleading people in most cases. The PS said this proposal was going to respond to the outrages. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not legislate to respond to outrages; we must legislate to prevent people from being outraged at the inoperability of supervisors and legislators. The root of this problem is the lack of competition and the lack of regulation on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u72	Oh, do you want more banks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u73	If the bank model cannot be profitable in competition or without abuse, then something is here, seriously, wrong. It should also be noted that, in some cases, these proposals will aggravate the problem and will not solve it, as they are alerting the fintechs that can be seen to be away from the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u75	Continue to close the market to banks and alienate new and dynamic companies that are improving competition, as these proposals will simply prohibit commissioning, which is the only source of financing for these new business models, means that they are doing a huge favor to banks. That is to say, on the basis of wanting to respond to the indignation that many rightly feel against the banks, what they are going to do is close the market to new competition and let the monopoly of the bank continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u76	So worried about competition...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u77	I would still like to point out that the world is not stopped, nor has it stopped 10 years ago. by wanting to be hyper-regulatory, by wanting to legislate everything and by wanting to close everything, this Parliament is in danger of completely passing along with the new business models that come, precisely, to benefit the consumer. Finally, I would like to recall the last failure: the legislation does not foresee everything, nor can it ever foresee everything. I show you, taking in the price of the General Deposit Box, with 93 pages, that the law says it is handed over to Banco de Portugal, so the Banco de Portugal sees all this. You resolve the absurdity, let us say, of the distraction committee and the performance processing committee. I absolutely agree that these committees are illegitimate and, from my point of view, today, illegal, but, as an example, I refer to the commissions associated with administrative acts by credits to the housing where we have: debt declaration, 50 €; debt charges declaration, 30 €; loan account statements in force, 100 €; waiver of the burden of inhalability or other charges, 100 €; extinction of irrevocable prosecutors, values ranging from 82 €... None of these problems are solved with your legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u78	What about yours?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u79	Which one of us? There's not yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u80	As for the commission during the duration of the contract — in the lease of real estate, which is not mortgage credit, but is similar — we have values, for example, for the letter of order of representation of the customer in the condominium, 30 €, process treatment with condominium lawyer that needs technical/ legal advice, 250 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u81	And where is your proposal? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u82	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not Banco de Portugal! What we need is a Banco de Portugal that can do behavioral supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u83	And what do you propose?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u84	I conclude by saying that we will not prevent the study of these issues, which are serious, but do not contain us to try to build legislation that not only will not solve problems as if we risk closing the market to new companies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u85	Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, I meant that I did not interrupt her speech because the time used to request clarifications was discounted in the overall time of the CDS-PP. In response to this set of requests for clarification, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u86	Madam President, I thank the honourable Members for their questions. At the beginning of my speech I began by referring to something very important and which would supposedly unite us all: consumer protection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u87	I am pleased to realize that the CDS is also on this boat and I am only sorry that, in this follow-up, I did not also present a project with which I could contribute to this same protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u88	That's right! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u89	What unites us and we all agree that the constant increases in banking committees need to be stopped. We all know that banks are SIBS shareholders, as well as well mentioned, and therefore being MB Way a SIBS platform, part of its development and technological innovation went through banks and had their support. It is important that the banks continue to contribute to this technological advancement, because it is essential that it is not neglected. With regard to the General Deposit Box, it acted in competition with national and foreign banks and in this sense no initiative can entail competitive distortions between the General Deposit Box and the other banks. What we all want to do is to protect consumers and their interests, and we are available to improve our proposal in the field of expertise, so that it can have a single way that will protect all consumers, with the sole aim of not letting the bank continue these consecutive increases in committees without having to explain to anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u90	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u91	You're going to say the New Bank was an invention of Rabbit Passes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reforms resulting from the financial integration process, consolidated in economic and monetary union, were designed to create and harmonise a single European market for financial services and this process resulted in profound changes in the banking sector. It adds strong competitive pressure from financial institutions based in European countries with greater economic growth. It also adds the development of the financial markets around digital, which has led to very positive consequences for consumers through more comfortable, faster access and at much lower cost to markets and financial products, but at very high adjustment costs on the part of the bank. It is in this context of Economic and Monetary Union that the Portuguese banking sector is currently moving, of which the most visible outcome was that of the very significant reduction of interest rates, with very positive consequences for those in need of credit but with negative consequences for savings. On the other hand, the compression of the net interest margins led to financial intermediation, as we knew it, no longer being a source of resources for banks, forcing them to look for new sources of revenue. Banks have been restructured and today banking commissions on financial services provided to customers are a critical point of their activity. The sale of services, with the consequent collection of commissions associated with it, was until a very short time ago an activity not collected or, alternatively, exempt from payment, but has become one of the main sources of revenue from the bank. We are thus witnessing a classic transition of an activity sector which, in theory, should not constitute a problem. It happens, however, that in practice, the bank ended up being more papist than the Pope. It collects commissions for everything and for nothing, sometimes ridiculous about the nature of the collection or even in a totally unjustified way for the consumer. It is unacceptable for a bank to apply a commission for the payment of the credit in a kind of « the customer has to pay in order to be able to pay ». It is unacceptable for banks to cover sometimes for services not provided. Thus, the perception among Portuguese people that they pay too much for financial services was created, even at a time when the money deposited in banks is practically unpaid. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is where the State cannot provide an active role on the part of regulatory and supervisory bodies. More than Parliament's interventions to legislate, it is critical that there is a more interventional role of the supervisors and also regulators. Consumers only benefit from truly fair and sufficiently low prices if markets are properly transparent and competitive. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake is not ending the committees. It is clear that the Portuguese know that they will have to pay for their basic services. What is at stake is whether certain committees make any sense and whether their price is fair, proportionate and balanced. This is what the PSD wants to talk about, is about these aspects that affect the proposals of the PSD bill. We are taking safe steps, we have already done so in the past, we are doing so now too. We are therefore proposing amendments restricting fees associated with the processing of credit benefits, the issue of distraction and the issue of debt declaration from the client's will, in particular for the fulfilment of tax or other obligations before the State. We are still proposing a change to the minimum banking services, in order to monitor the growing technological innovation, proposing the extension of the range of operations available in the service in order to also consider transfers through the MBWay service or other of the same nature. The PSD has always been on the front line of reforms which, moreover, have resulted in very positive changes to access, at reduced costs, from banking consumers to services considered essential. For example, it was the PSD's action that, in practice, the provision of minimum bank services accounts to all Portuguese banks has become compulsory for all banks, contributing to the exclusion of anyone from the banking and financial system. It was not by chance that there was an exponential growth of seven and a half times in the number of bank minimum service accounts existing at the end of 2014. Today there are more than 100 000 bank service accounts. We have made good and safe steps to benefit the Portuguese and, at the same time, to contribute responsibly to the sustainability of the system, but, above all, we have taken prudent steps towards factors which, in the future, could become harmful to taxpayers and consumers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the left of Parliament always opts to introduce easy solutions to implement in the short term, but tends to ignore the possibility of irreparable and pernicious costs in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u93	If they were easy, the PSD would approve them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u94	No one will understand that a fragile economy like Portuguese will introduce innovations in legislative matters that fragment the capacity of the Portuguese banks towards European congeners. We therefore ask whether the consequences of some of the measures proposed by the left are duly analysed at the price that the Portuguese will have to pay in the future in order to acquire a home with the support of a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u95	They're all analyzed. All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u96	What spread will it do when Euribor's interest rates rise again, contrary to what happens today? How many more commissions will be charged beyond what they already pay? With the implementation of some measures that we could observe, how many more bank workers will have to be fired or negotiated precarious exits? The PSD is not strange that the most radical left has no such concerns. According to your cart, when there are problems with the capital needs of the financial system, you always have a remedy, they decree the nationalisation of the banks. [[Protests by BE Jorge Costa and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] With this, at the end of the line, Portuguese taxpayers are putting the invoice of your irresponsibility. Yes, we miss the unwiseness and demagogy of the Socialist Party, but this is the difference that separates us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u97	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u98	We are against creating more risks for Portugal not to protect the bank but, rather, to protect taxpayers in the future from problems related to your recklessness. Yes, we want a competitive bank in the competitive market. [[Protests by BE Jorge Costa and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]] Only in this way will it be possible to finance families and businesses, contributing to the growth of the economy without creating imbalances in the face of external competitors risking the country and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u99	There are two inscriptions to request clarification from Mr Carlos Silva. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u100	You can answer one by one! Don't pay commission for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u101	I am replying together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u102	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u103	You're going to ask what the Portuguese bank is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to begin my speech without making the most vehement rejection by the terms of the Portuguese Banking Association communiqué. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u105	It is not with communiqués to spray blackmail on Parliament and on the Portuguese that the banking system is credible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u107	In our understanding, this note should be made here and now during this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u108	It's a good question to ask the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u109	He said that we are all committed to eliminating the abuse of banks that has been the practice of banking committees, a highlight of his intervention, Mr Carlos Silva, some concern that has shown about the successive increases that these committees have suffered in recent years and the impact that this increase in costs has had, and has, in sum, with Portuguese consumers, the customers of the banks. But I also noted that you have expressed some concern about the sustainability of the financial system. Periods like those we have been living for a few years, and that today we continue to feel the effects, are well present with the taxpayers and cannot be repeated in any way. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all in agreement with the idea that the bank cannot systematically continue to exacerbate the costs of access to the financial system, looking at consumers as a bottomless well. This cannot be the permanent and recurrent response of the financial system to deal with the current banking activity. in a market economy, typically the costs of financial services shall be paid as those of any other service. However, the cost of accessing these services must have a justified basis on which its calculation is based, based on which there will certainly be space to impact these costs, taking into account the activity carried out by banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u111	But what we are watching is that it cannot continue in our understanding beyond the limits of the reasonable. By way of example, and without confusing even the State when setting the value of a fee, it must take into account, in its determination, the charges with the provision of service to which it relates, which, in fact, is fully understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u112	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u113	This reasoning leads us to conclude that it must be ensured that the value of the banking commissions to be carried out in the financial sector must be fixed within reasonable limits and with respect to the principles guiding the activity of the banking sector in Portugal, in particular the principle of proportionality, with concerns about the sustainability of the financial system. But it must also seek to promote financial inclusion, especially through the digital channels that today play a crucial role in Portuguese society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that there are different projects and that they all show a concern about access to the financial system. Therefore, it will certainly be useful to work and, in the field of expertise, we will make the necessary contribution to those who today deserve approval in the plenary so that we can find the best solutions. I did not want to finish this speech without asking Mr Carlos Silva a very specific question. We in the Socialist Party have some reservations about some of the solutions contained in your proposals, but we regard them as a positive contribution, a contribution to a global reflection on this matter, to develop in the work in the field. Based on this assumption, I conclude with the following question: Is the PSD available to accept the principle of proportionality in determining the value of banking commissions? Is the PSD open to work in the preparation of the necessary legislative framework to establish a legal basis in the objective definition of such costs, creating the obligation to justify them and creating conditions for the regulator not to be exempted from its responsibilities, being the latter empowered to verify compliance with those obligations by the different agents of the financial system? We are aware that this issue will be essential and that the positive response to it will enable us to succeed in effective consumer protection and protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u114	You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u115	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, the banking institutions are working contrary to what would be expected in the normal functioning of the economy. In recent decades, technological development has increased productivity and thus the overallity of products and services have become cheaper. Interestingly, in the banking sector, the opposite is happening. Many services, which were previously treated at the counter free of charge, are now guaranteed by the Internet, with less expense for banks, but are charged expensive to customers and abusively. This is an example of the collection of more than 50 € for the issuance of official statements on bank accounts or the 30 € per year for the processing of the credit provision. We also find abusive charges on account maintenance costs or a simple bank transfer. Banking commissions are a business example for banks that increased EUR 40 million only in 2019. Today, Parliament is again voting on a number of proposals which can bring more justice to people's lives. The Block proposes the creation of a universal basic account, which will provide all banking customers with an extended set of basic services at a fixed price. We also propose the elimination of abusive commissions, e.g. the collection of fees for the processing of credit benefits or the prohibition on the collection of fees for transfers made through MB Way and other platforms. The PSD here has a second opportunity to vote in favour of these proposals and to recognise that this situation is abusive. Is PSD available to do it? In the past, the PSD vote, as well as the PS vote, has already failed the country in this sense. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u116	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u117	Mr President, I would like to thank the two Mrs for their questions. Members of the Socialist Party and the Left Block. Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, Fernando Anastácio, as regards principles we agree. The principle which you have set out seems to me to be a correct principle and, of course, in the field of specialty, we can deepen it. That's not where our divergence is. Our disagreement arises because what the Socialist Party says is one thing, what the Socialist Party writes on the role is another. in this circumstance, the Socialist Party deceives the Portuguese. That's why we're worried! [[PS protests.]] We cannot follow many of your suggestions. It is unacceptable, as everyone here has said, to place themselves in a Portuguese service like the MB Way the limits that you have set. The DECO itself (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), which is not against the existence of commissions in the service of MB Way, comes to say that the service should be proportional. We all agree on the principle! Prices must be made fairly, proportionately, so that Portuguese can be better served. That is not what appears in your proposals! It is clear that when you put the limits that you put to the service of MB Way, you end up with that service on time! More than that, neither international platforms will be interested in operating in Portugal. This means that, of course, competition becomes more difficult and that the Portuguese do not benefit from this competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u118	Mr. Eng. Would Oliveira be here?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u119	On the question of Mr. Bloc de Left... I apologize for not knowing your name.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u120	Ricardo Vicente.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u121	Mr. Ricardo Vicente, we do not agree with your principle of bubbles for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u122	It's just for the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u123	The Left Block permanently comes to this Assembly of the Republic trying to end a banking service in Portugal, a service serving the Portuguese. It is clear that when you place balls for everyone, someone has to pay and, normally, they are the taxpayers who pay. [[BE's laughs.]] So we cannot agree with your proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u124	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u125	Mr President, it has been and it is exciting to hear the Socialist Party on this matter. To get better, only Mr André Pinotes Batista was missing to repeat again that the PS is completely waterproof to the private interests of the House to stay even more energetic. This is the truth: Directive No 2014 / 92 / EU should have been transposed by the Socialist Government, it was late and we were almost fined for not transposing it in time. What did the directive say? It allowed the Portuguese to know what committees they actually paid in this matter. We have more: in 2014 the now Prime Minister said he was going to severely limit bank commissions. It's been four, five years and what did we have? Nothing! Yes, we have heard from the Business Journal this week that we were told that the Ministry of Finance itself was going to run away from the banking committees and centralize payments, that is, they pay the others, because we, if we can run away, run away. This is always the basic principle. What happened? The Socialist Party has seen itself surrounded by its friends in management and now comes with the story that, after all, it also wants to reduce banking commissions, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u126	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u127	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Vera Braz says it is necessary to safeguard bank investment, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u128	Where's the project? Where?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u129	The project of the Arrival is very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u130	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u131	And does arrive have a project?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u132	Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u133	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. The arrival will be by the side of those who effectively want to reduce banking commissions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u135	Then you will vote in favour of the PS project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u136	...because it doesn't make sense there are banks in Portugal that increase them 16 times in just three months. That is an indisputable truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u137	It's just straw!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u138	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As a result of technological developments, but also of society itself, some services, which could still be regarded as inaccessible to the overwhelming majority of the population, today, for the generality of the citizens, constitute an acquired data and, in most cases, represent a need. Banking services are a clear example of these new services, which have gradually become real needs and, for the most part, a common fact of their daily lives, making their use a common and trivial act. We can even say that today it is very difficult or much more complicated to live without banking services. In fact, we have come to this situation of dependence on banking services not because of pressure or the demands of citizens, without prejudice to the advantages and benefits that may come to them, but because of the pressure, on the one hand, on the banking financial institutions, interested in increasing their customer portfolio, and on the other, by public and private entities, in particular those responsible for payments of salaries, allowances or pensions, of course interested in reducing the costs relating to such transfers or operations. It follows that the values that citizens are obliged to pay in banking committees have been increasing from year to year, reaching values that begin to weigh in the family budgets and significantly and more intensively in the budgets of the most economically fragile families. Only during 2019, the main banks raised more than EUR 1500 million in banking commissions. This was the amount spent by the Portuguese in a single year by the use of credit or debit cards and by the use of digital applications or electronic platforms for transfers or payments, as is the case with MB Way. It is also before these figures that the Greens consider it necessary to take steps not only to lay down, on a legal basis, limits on the collection of bank fees, but also to extend the ban on charging for payment services and for carrying out transactions using digital applications. But in addition to the values that already have frightening proportions, we have seen, in relation to digital applications, that banks normally present them as having no user costs, as they promote reductions in the operational costs of banks. It follows that after these applications enter the circuit and assert themselves as an appeal, and in a kind of misleading advertising extended over time, the same banks, which promoted them without cost to the user, begin to impose commissions after commissions for their use, forcing users to bear costs for a service that had been ‘sold’ to them by the banks at no cost. On the other hand, on the legal level, the prohibition on charging users with charge on operations carried out in multibank boxes is enshrined and, for the most part, the use of such digital applications should not be subject to any user charge either. This means that the current ban on the use of operations, through multibank terminals, from the perspective of Green DOS, should also extend to digital applications. With regard to the set of initiatives under discussion today, I would also like to leave three notes on behalf of the Greens. The first is to say that the presentation of bills by PS and PSD is a good sign, because they affect or suggest an evolution in the way both PS and PSD have looked at the problem. I recall that the PS and PSD, for example, have ineligibled, with their vote against, a bill presented by Green PELOS, during the X Legislation, and that proposes to impose exactly limits on the collection of bank accounts maintenance expenses. And so it's appropriate to say: PS and PSD welcome to the club! The second note is to say that the Greens will follow all legislative initiatives under discussion which, in our view, will protect consumers, in particular by imposing limits on bank fees or by prohibiting charging charges for payment services and performing transactions using digital applications. Finally, I would like to say that the Greens follow the reading that the Socialist Party today has made, through Mr Fernando Anastácio, regarding the blackmail made by the Portuguese Banking Association, in response to the discussion we make in this plenary, adding now that, in the perspective of the Greens, this blackmail of the Portuguese Banking Association is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u140	Mr Carlos Brás of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A rule of law has an obligation to protect its citizens and a left-wing parliamentary majority has a duty to create conditions, through its legislative power, which guarantee equality of circumstances before the institutions, regulating the imbalances created by the market and by economic agents. This is also the case with access to financial and banking products. The company was structured in such a way as to make the use of these banking services indispensable and indispensable. In turn, these have seen the opportunity in this evolution to diversify, complexize and, consequently, charge, creating fringes of excluded population and sometimes the target of some abuses. We all realize that banking business has evolved from financial intermediation to commissioning, and also we all realize that, if there is not currently, there has already been consultation between banks subverting the principles of free competition, with obvious loss of customers. We also know that products and services of easy access and use have been created and that, in general, their disclosure, soon after the fees appear to charge them. In addition to this, the Portuguese have been changing the way they look at the banks. These were, until a few years ago, credible and fully trusted institutions. But, as a result of various vicissitudes, scandals and cases of corruption in the sector today, the Portuguese look at the banks with distrust and much doubt. As the banks and the financial system are fundamental parts of a developed and modern economy, it is therefore important that the legislative power intervene by regulating the relationship between banks and the public and, above all, in favour of the protection of the weakest and most disadvantaged. Thus it happened with Decree-Law No. 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, which created the system of access to minimum banking services. This is a law that has been improved, it was -o in 2011, in 2012, in 2015, in 2017 and in 2018. This is therefore a significant legislative development. We are here today to present some proposals to amend this law, creating the universal basic account, for example, in the case of the Left Block, but they all engage in a wrong assumption, which is that of the number of accounts opened. It was said here by several banks that there were 78 000 accounts of minimum open banking services. However, I took the liberty of bringing here a chart, published on the Banco de Portugal website on 13 February—it already has a few days—which demonstrates precisely that the assumption of departure is 1. last year's semester, missing accounting for the 2. a semester. But not 2. in the six months, there was also an increase of 32 %, and at present there are 103 000 accounts opened. So, we can't grab the partial data, we have to do the analysis of the total data. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] But tell yourself in favour of the truth that this is a good example in which there has been collaboration between all parliamentary benches, because in the previous legislature it was possible to approve some projects unanimously, which means that there was consultation. There is, eventually, the Socialist Party's willingness to improve the proposals that come to the specialty and we will always be open to contributing positively to consumer protection and, in this case, to banking customers. Before I finish, I wanted to leave here a note on what Mr. André Ventura of the Arrival said. It is just that, Mr President, here in this House, work is being announced - and we have not seen job announcements on your part - but then we have to carry it out in the committees, with proposals, with collaboration, and that is where you have failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u142	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u143	Let me tell you what you're doing here, demagogic and media announcements, but then, in concrete and at work, you're not there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u144	You're not going to a meeting! You've missed all the meetings!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to unite ourselves to avoid what is a very colonial logic of the relationship between an institution and its customers. It is this colonial logic that is successively practised by banking institutions, in an opinion in which one wishes to serve one another, use the other and what is the other, explore the other until he does not endure at least. It is necessary to safeguard consumer rights and it is necessary not only to limit but to eliminate these charges from banking committees, which, in my view, are absolutely coercive charges. But it is also necessary to use technological development, technology, to increase well-being and equality and not to steal more from us. It is necessary to safeguard the citizens, in an environment where the ordering is miserable, in an environment where housing today is considered an enormous luxury. It is necessary that the state and each of us...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u147	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u148	...guard that the profit does not overlap with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u149	In the use of the word, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS is also used for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate is evidence of the importance that consumer rights protection assumes in national policy, especially when we refer to a key sector for economic-financial stability and a sector that lives a lot of the relationship it establishes with its customers and with its citizens. in a society of increasingly massified consumption and framed in the modernization and technological innovation, it is important to adapt the current consumer protection mechanisms, especially when, over the years, a banking policy is substantially based on the proliferation of commissions, often due to the provision of dubious and disproportionate services in relation to the effectively provided. That is why the Government and this Parliament have taken very concrete steps to protect consumers. It is sufficient to recall very recent diplomas that have made it easier to access the bank's minimum service account, with statutory limited commissions, and with visible results, which have improved the effectiveness of the monitoring and claiming system of commissions collected and to provide information on commissions in a aggregate manner, either publicly or to customers individually. That is why new commitments continue to be made, particularly in the Grand Options of the Plan recently adopted in this House, which expressly refers to the objective of assessing the regulatory framework of banking commissions, safeguarding consumer transparency and proportionality in relation to services effectively provided and ensuring the absence of commissions associated with the raising of money and other services made available in the Multibank. That is also why we are presenting today measures to strengthen consumer protection. The relevance we give to this issue is essentially the recognition of the importance of the relationship between the banking sector and its customers and the recognition that this relationship passes through trust, transparency, proportionality and balance between the parties. This is not about balancing the bank, but about balancing the relationship between the bank and the citizens. And, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, indeed, we have a duty to ensure here responses to the outrage of the Portuguese, but we do not keep our eyes closed when the functioning of the market provokes outrage in the Portuguese. And that's what we're doing here. It is not our right, it is our duty to give answers to the citizens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u151	What we really want is to guarantee the confidence of citizens in the bank. This is our concern. If that is to deceive the Portuguese, Mr Carlos Silva, then that is, but we will continue to fight for confidence in the bank by the citizens. And when we speak of trust we do not only refer to the role of managers in the command of the various banking institutions, we speak of confidence in services that are provided and contracted and the predictability of associated committees. It is in this sense that we are debating today a number of proposals which, after all, have just, or so we hope, have the same objective as we have repeated here several times: to protect the consumer. And this, above all, because reality shows us that in the necessary and expected modernization, massification and simplification of services by banks there is a tendency always to assume a share of effort by customers, through the application of often disproportionate commissions and when there are still imbalances in the contractual relationship, whether with respect to contractual changes or with regard to access to information. The data of the Banco de Portugal relating to 1. the 2019 semester refers to changes to the content of 788 booklets of commissions and expenditure, which arise, for example, from the modification of the amount of commissions to be charged and the provision of new products. The Banco de Portugal also notes that, in the same period, the main complaints of consumers deal precisely with the collection of commissions and charges. The growing importance of committees in the functioning and survival of banking activity is not devalued by the Socialist Party, but proportionality in its establishment, in relation to services provided and, above all, in the face of the necessary protection of consumer rights, must continue to be the priority of our action. It is on this basis that we are presenting today the debate: available to debate the concrete measures in the specialty but always framed for the same purpose, which is to rebalance the relationship between the bank and the consumer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u152	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u153	Mr President, very briefly, I just want to inform the Socialist Party that the CDS will not only present as it has already submitted not one but several proposals on supervision. It was, in fact, the first party to do so in the previous Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u154	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u155	...and in this Parliament we will also make innovative proposals. It is a pity that in the previous Parliament they have been in committee for more than two years, waiting for the government to remember to have an opinion on supervision. The world didn't start at the time when the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has begun many years before all of us were born. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about believing in the market without more, it is about believing in a market with rules, good faith and consumer protection. You want to replace the regulators, but I would like to tell you that we have no obligation to respond to the outrages, especially when these answers are absolutely false, we have an obligation to fight for what we believe in and to work so that there are no more abuses and reasons for outrages. This is what the Socialist Party has a lot of difficulty in understanding. It is not a question of adopting one or another measure 'to see' here and then the abuses continue, all of them, it is a matter of solving something, and this goes through serious changes in supervision, which many parties here, in this House, have already wanted to do but that did not happen because the Government and the Socialist Party have resolved to cross their arms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u156	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u157	This is what happened in the last legislature and has already happened in other legislatures. If the gentlemen. Members have not been studying what happened in the past, well, it is not my fault, but in fact this has happened. If you've changed your mind now, fine. The CDS is here, with proposals for this debate and available to study this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u158	We're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u159	Now, for hyper-regulations that will not solve strictly any problem, as I have proved here with this speech to which no one has answered, for that reason, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, to fool people, we're not here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u160	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on banking committees seems like a competition between those who can be more populist and, therefore, I will devote this "liberal minute" to populisms of various colors. The populists of all colors say everything they think will be popular: below the banking commissions, free banking services—they say! The populists of all colors present solutions that are between the simplist and the authority: forbid, force, decree! The populists of all colors choose not to link to the consequences of what will be decided here today. What if the banks decide to make up for the revenue, what happens? And if you decide not to make up for the revenue, what happens? You don't know and no one seems interested in knowing. The populists of all colors shake popes of the most varied types: some, the popes of minorities, of fear, of insecurity; others, the popes of the private, of profit — profit, this horrible daddy! ... — forgetting that there are no jobs that pay decent wages, forgetting that there will be no profit in innovation and, above all, forgetting that no profit is created the conditions for the next rescue of private banks with public money. If the populists of all colors were truly interested in having innovative and cheap banking services, what they were defending here was the strengthening of competition — as far as possible — the strengthening of regulation and supervision, so that it would not be possible for them to pass impunity either the abusive practices, or the cartels that have already occurred and for there to be no supervision susceptible to blackmail that we were still witnessing yesterday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u162	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u163	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, if populists of all colors were truly interested in having innovative and cheap banking services, they provided much more information so that people could freely choose their banking services and, above all, made it very clear, in this House, that there would never again be a public rescue or a nationalization of a bank with private losses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u164	Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals that have been put forward and the debate we have tabled here today show that there is some convergence in some aspects, particularly in terms of objectives, at least declared, but there are many differences, many differences, in terms of solutions presented. Let us start on the leftmost side of Parliament: for the Left and for the CFP, the state must control everything, it must define the values of the committees, it must impose all restrictions, without worrying about the consequences and scope of these restrictions. What these parties have come to propose — not in some respects, which are more or less peaceful, but in the prohibition of commissions, for example, of MB WAY — are limits to services prices that are effectively provided. What these parties are proposing is the essence of populism. What is populism? It is to present a problem and then find an easy solution: if the problem is the very high banking committees, the easy solution is to ban committees. Except that's not a solution. It is not a solution because when we impose such price restrictions, the consequences are inexorable and they are always the same. If any government decides to administratively fix the price of milk or the price of toilet paper, they know what will happen, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Milk and toilet paper will disappear from supermarket shelves. How do we know that? We know that because this has been tried many times, the most recent of which in Venezuela, that you like so much, and the result has always been the same! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u166	It was always the end of the service! If you want to ban commission collection in services that are valuable services for consumers, services that consumers value, what you will do is not protect the consumer, it is, on the contrary, harm the consumer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u167	You should eat toilet paper for breakfast!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u168	Sir, we're talking about committees, okay? I was saying that what you're going to do is end up with a service that consumers want and are not protecting them, so they're harming them. Moreover, this is the sine — the sad sine, I would say — of the policies of the extreme left: under the protection of the consumer, eventually harming those who need it most.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u169	Sad sin is you're teaching college!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u170	Mr President, I am surprised that 100 years after the Bolshevik Revolution and more than 30 failed experiences of communism, they still insist on not recognizing the mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u172	Can't you get better than that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u173	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u174	The Socialist Party's proposal... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please let the honourable Member finish his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u176	The Socialist Party's proposal also follows the tradition of the Socialist Party's proposals: it is neither yes nor no. We are here today to know that the reason why the Socialist Party presents its proposal is because there is popular indignation—again, a populist response.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u177	Plays throwing sand at people's face!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u178	As a populist answer that is, it is not a solution. Now, the Socialist Party, unlike the Left Block, as it is a government party, has some notion of the consequences. As you know, the imposition of limits on committees will have a very negative impact on the financial system, which means, "well, we will ban, but only a few, because so we minimize the damage and, at the end, perhaps, the cost is not too great". It's just that, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party, the problem is that you have been doing this 18 of the last 25 years. In fact, such small restrictions alone have little impact, but all together have a very large impact. Do you know what it is? For example, this week the European Commission reminded us that productivity in Portugal does not grow and therefore the Portuguese economy does not converge. Why? Thanks to these small, all added restrictions, which put the Portuguese economy and companies at a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis their competitors. [[PS protests.]] What we have is a problem, indeed, and we have a problem that deserves a balanced solution. The problem is this: if we had in the financial system a competitive system in which contractual freedom was complete, then there would be no need for intervention, because the committees that would result from the functioning of the market would certainly be just commissions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u179	Keep that manual there, it's very old-fashioned!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u180	Is it true that there may be competition problems, but do you know how competition problems are tackled, Mrs? Competition problems are being combated at the heart of competition. There is one question that the Left Block really likes to put but which has not yet understood, which is this: when there is a mistake, making an error of opposite sense does not solve the problem. What he does is there are two mistakes. We have more mistakes than we had before. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] So what we need is regulation that is done in those areas where, for some reason, contractual freedom does not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u182	This is what happens in the PSD proposals. The PSD proposals aim to resolve two situations where there is no contractual freedom on the part of the consumer, and for that reason, because the consumer is not free to say 'I do not want to! » There must be some consumer protection. This is the case with all those commissions on benefits that do not exist, especially when they are associated with long-term credits. It is that the freedom of the consumer is not at all because he already has a credit and he cannot, in the end, say "I don't want credit". in this case, in fact, it is necessary to protect the consumer. This is also the case with minimum banking services, because it is essential today that you have access to these services and, in fact, there are many consumers who do not have the freedom to say that they do not want banking services. Since they do not have the freedom to say they do not want, they are dependent on them to charge them whatever the banks want. That is why the minimum banking services with cost constraints are a positive measure and what the PSD is doing is recognizing that this measure is positive and adapting the minimum banking services to the current reality. So what we have to ensure is that what needs to be regulated, that is, those areas where the market does not work, is properly regulated, and that what does not need to be regulated, is not. It is not imposing restrictions on the activity of banks that we will protect the consumer. by imposing restrictions on the activity of banks what we are doing is harming the consumer, because, in time—that is your problem, never remember the future, they always think that the world will end tomorrow and not end tomorrow—, what will happen is that banking services will be smaller or, then, will be more expensive other services to compensate for the loss of revenue with these. Our difference, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the PSD who thinks about the future, thinks about the future of the Portuguese economy and therefore cannot follow your proposals, which would undermine the competitiveness of Portuguese companies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u183	Mr João Paulo Correia, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, for the Portuguese to know, the political parties with legislative initiatives that want to stop the abuse of banking committees are the Socialist Party, the PCP, the Left Block, the PAN and the PSD. The CDS has hit the chest but it does not have a legislative initiative; it has also made a number of proclamations here, but it does not have a legislative initiative either — it has put forward a proposal for a recommendation at the last minute to come to this debate — and the Liberal Initiative has also gone out and has no legislative initiative either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u185	They really like to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u186	It only defends the interest of customers and consumers of financial services products if we bring the debate in Parliament legislative initiatives, and neither the CDS nor the Arrival nor the Liberal Initiative. Secondly, the Portuguese Banks Association is not part of this debate, it has no legislative initiatives, it has no parliamentary seat, but the speech of the Portuguese Banks Association was very visible in the voices of the CDS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u187	That's fake! It's fake! Don't be a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u188	There are aspects that unite us in this debate: it unites us with the protection and protection of consumer and banking rights; it unites us with the view that we have of the failures of the Banco de Portugal, from many years to this part, either in matters of prudential supervision, in matters of behavioural supervision or in matters of financial regulation. It also unites us with the fact that Parliament has played a decisive role in protecting consumers and customers of banking products and services. It was the political parties with parliamentary seats that dealt with the fight against economic and financial crime, which dealt with strengthening financial supervision and also dealt with the transparency package, such as information related to the large bank debtors. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Parliament has played its part and the Socialist Party has always been at the forefront in defending these public interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what is on the table is deciding whether or not we are going to stop the abuse of the bank in respect of banking commissions on financial platforms. The Socialist Party's proposal is to exempt a certain number of operations and certain amounts, so that the clients of these services are exempt from the payment of commissions. Let us hope that Parliament today, following the debate, in the vote, will approve the Socialist Party's bill and we are available to move towards a convergence in the field of bank bank limitation. We know who is in the debate, we know who has legislative initiatives and we also know who did not want to come to the debate, who is not interested in stopping the abuse of the bank, and those who do not want to stop the abuse of the bank are called CDS, Arrival and Liberal Initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u189	Which one is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u190	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the interventions of the PSD, the CDS and their successors do not surprise us by defending exactly the position of the bank and the position of the APB ( Portuguese Banks Association ). That was your contribution to this debate: it was to bring the bank's position and nothing else!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u192	Exactly! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u193	With regard to the concerns and arguments that you have brought here — I am going to some of them — I would like to make a few comments. According to one argument, banks cannot survive without these committees. I recall that the bank has profits of EUR 5, EUR 2 million per day — this is currently. That's what we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u194	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u195	Another argument is that, with negative interest, banking commissions are inevitable. I recall that in 2008 only the four largest banks, even in times of crisis, had profits of EUR 1270 million and at that time the banking commissions represented 21, 3 % of the banking product. At that time, there were no negative interest rates. Then another argument is that the projects on the table could possibly harm the Portuguese bank vis-à-vis the foreign bank. Question : Which Portuguese bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u196	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u197	Only if you're talking about the General Deposit Box, because the whole private bank, the whole bank that you privatize, went to stop the foreign capital,... [[PCP applause.]] ... which demonstrates, once again, that the bank is either public or not national. Another argument, which the CDS also brought here, was that these projects would harm new forms of payment, such as the Revolution and other applications. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] What we need to know is who's doing the control of these platforms or if only at the end of the disaster is we're gonna give it to him. PS says MB WAY fees are used to avoid fraud. Honestly, I cannot understand the relationship between charging fees and combating fraud. Fraud must be combated through supervisory bodies and not through fees. In fact, until a few months ago, MB WAY had no fee and that's not why you know great fraud. The CDS says that the ban on MB WAY rate could affect competition. I recall that today, the application of any rate for the use of Multibank is prohibited. Question: Does this affect competition? It does not affect competition, banks have no problem with the fact that no fee is allowed in the Multibank. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Members, the question now arises is whether or not there is a political will to extend the minimum banking service scheme, which is the proposal of the CFP: on the one hand, to extend the minimum banking service scheme, which is no longer exclusive, i.e. that one person, having only another account, does not allow access to the account for minimum banking services, and on the other hand prohibits fees in MB WAY and all digital applications. from our point of view, it is not only in the MB WAY that commissions should be banned but in all digital applications, until banks are able to charge them in their applications. The question here is whether or not there is a political will to move forward in order to protect consumers from abuse and against the bubble that has been applied by the bank over the years with the apparent agreement in this debate of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u198	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in good time the Left Block has marked this debate. We did it with a huge openness, giving room for each parliamentary group, each party, could come to this fundamental debate because there was a conclusion that was coming to us, going through the whole country: there is an abuse of the financial system before people, with taxes, taxes and commissions that steal the money that people have in banks. I am glad we did this debate. If today there is hope to change the law and protect people, it is due to the courage and openness that the Left Block has had in this schedule. We know that bankers and bankers have laws to regulate and even have regulators that should enforce those laws and regulations. But it is when the Assembly of the Republic meets to legislate that the financial system trembles, because the Banco de Portugal lives without any fear. It's because you know there's someone who's pleased with the fees, the taxis and the commissions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u200	It is therefore unacceptable what we hear today from the Portuguese Banks Association, which blackmailed a ruling body of our democratically elected country to say that it could not legislate under the penalty of dismissal in the financial sector, under the penalty of closing counters. They, bankers, who have done nothing more than take public money for private use, say they're going to fire people who work in the financial system and lock up counters. That's what we don't accept! So with the votes that will follow, we will be able to answer the question: who is afraid of the bankers? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u201	We know that some have already frightened themselves and some even seemed to be bankers speaking in the Assembly of the Republic. It was enough to hear the intervention of the CDS, the Liberal Initiative or the Arrival, and to read the project it presented. The arrival brings to the letter that popular saying that says «who wants to do, who doesn't want to command».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u202	He doesn't like to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u203	The honourable Member has arrived more than half an hour late in the debate — but I am glad that he is here! — and your diploma has also been delayed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u204	But he's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u205	But when we read your diploma, we ask ourselves: does he propose anything? It does not propose anything, it commands — the government to do something, the Banco de Portugal to do something. The Assembly of the Republic may and must legislate in respect of the laws which it itself has produced and the Member may and must have legislative initiative. But my question is: did you present any amendments to the law? Did you propose a commission ban? Don't! Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u206	How are you going to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u207	Speak, speak, speak! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u208	Speak, speak, speak, speak, but when it comes to doing, do nothing, command. We understand, Mr. Member: whoever does, who doesn't want to send. [[Congratulations from BE.]] To listen to the CDS — so immobilist that he seems to hide until he has had the hand in placing Carlos Costa in Banco de Portugal — is to listen to the swindled arguments of the Portuguese Banking Association. If we were to ask the CDS: "Is there a problem? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I would reply : « There may be, perhaps, no». If we said, “But people are being stolen. They feel in their pocket they're being stolen! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I would reply: "Perhaps so, perhaps not. It is better to leave everything as it is, not going to get even worse».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u209	He didn't hear anything we said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u210	And the Liberal Initiative Member, who today could say "well, but the market is not, the market is functioning and there is competition that ensures that people are safeguarded", came in to speak fine and even left the debate. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo does not recognise that his ideology has failed in the financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests from CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Where's the competition? He's in commission robbery! Where is consumer protection? He's in commission robbery! That's what he's defending. Mr. Deputies, the Liberal Minute but the Titanic film seemed to sink here like the financial system. It is that we remember this situation but, above all, people feel in their pocket what it means the weight of the financial system in their reality. I conclude by referring to gross — gross — figures! — and that they show how there is a sector that feels above the country, which is something we cannot bear. in a year, more than EUR 3600 million only in commissions, fees, taxis. Why? Because people have their money in the banks. They have the money there and they still charge €3600 million! Public funds, in a decade, EUR 23 800 million — EUR 23 800 million! Another CDS would know that this is equivalent to more than 40 submarines that went to the financial system. More than 40 submarines! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Only for the New Bank is €3900 million! The question you are asking is, is this enough? Is this enough? Don't! The financial system says he wants more. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] We ask: are there, in the Assembly of the Republic, Members and Members here who agree with what our people say, i.e., 'We do not want to pay any more for this financial system, do we not accept this theft anymore'? One last word about that idea that pays orders. Those who hold a public bank have an obligation to demand that bank have a public policy and do not respond to the worst that private people do. Among the commissions to which payment requires and the way in which it sometimes takes the lead to be protagonist in this theft, the General Deposit Box, imagine — we have heard this news — it charges commissions to schools, public services, cash receipts and coins deposit there. In the General Deposit Box, schools have to pay commissions for these deposits! This shows the absurdity of the management that the General Deposit Box is doing. So the question is also the following: what do we want for the public bank? Do we want to 'wash our hands' and think it's another bank that should be managed like the private ones, or do we want to have a public policy in defense of our country? In all these matters, the Left Block says « we are here to defend the interests of people ». We have done this schedule, so we will be next to all the projects that aim to limit the abuse of the bank and we have the claim that, in the specialty, work is fast so that the law defends people, since the Banco de Portugal does not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the diplomas that have just been discussed. Let us therefore check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 211 meetings, and we therefore have quorum to vote. I'm asking the ladies. Members who were unable to register electronically to indicate it to the Bureau orally at the end of the sitting. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 137 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the distraction and the declaration of settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted to consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 138 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We are now voting on a request by BE for discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 140 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the universal basic account access system. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 143 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the development of guidelines for the banking commissions policy of the General Deposit Box. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] We then voted on a request by the CFP for discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 205 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January, extending the prohibition on the collection of charges by the provision of payment services and carrying out operations to transactions carried out through digital applications. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 206 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceeded to the vote on an application by the NAP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budget and Finance, without a 60-day vote of Bill No. 209 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of any fees, expenses or charges in cases where a customer service is not effectively provided by credit institutions ( first amendment to Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services for housing credit, credit for consumption and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March establishing the system of access to minimum banking services. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the PAN, the CH and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and abstentions from the PS, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 217 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Restricts the collection of bank fees by amending Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June 2017. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PSD, PAN, ENP and CH, the vote against the IL and with abstentions from PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 263 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By clarifying Law No 66 / 2015 and by banning the collection of fees and commissions in bank transfers made through the application MB WAY. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the PAN and the IL, the vote in favour of the CH and abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the end of our work today, not before we announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, beginning at 10 a.m. First, elections to be held for various bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic : from two judges to the Constitutional Court, the President of the Economic and Social Council and from seven votes (and alternates) to the Supreme Council of the Magistrature. of the second point is the assessment of the Bill No 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic reporting and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material. In the third point, the Draft Resolution No. 198 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a ( PSD ) — Make several recommendations to the Government arising from the sale announced by EDP, Energies de Portugal, SA, of six dams in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real. The fourth point follows the joint assessment of Resolution Projects No 191 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the imposition of anti-abuse standards in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security, cleaning and other services, ensuring compliance with labour law and the legal regime of the transmission of establishment, and 252 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government stop the work in the field of surveillance and cleaning. of the fifth point, is the joint discussion of Lein 6 / XIV / 1 projects. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code, establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the pawnage and the execution of mortgages, and 210 / XIX/1. a ( BE ) — Establish the impermissibility of permanent housing property ( amends the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ). In the sixth point, there is the discussion of draft resolution No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a revolution in vocational training to adapt to new times. At the end of the debate, the seventh point is followed by regular votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u212	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u213	Mr. André Ventura, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u214	Mr President, it is in order to realize that the arrival intends to make use of the agenda set for tomorrow, given that your bill has been removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u215	Based on what article?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u216	Based on the fact that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u217	I have the information that you would appeal on the basis of Article 59 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u218	Yes, it is based on Article 59. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u219	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u221	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u222	Mr President, the decision that is at issue or is based here or, as far as you know, is about the non-acceptability of a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u223	We have to listen to Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u224	No, Mr. President. In accordance with the rules of procedure, this appeal is in accordance with the rules of Article 16. Article 81 ( 1 )( c ) of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with Article 81. The same Rules of Procedure, paragraph 5, shall only vote in plenary rather than in speeches, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u225	All right. In any case, Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u226	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u227	Don't you? So why? Why should it be only tomorrow? Madam Member, I am sorry, but at the speed you did so, I did not follow the numbers and paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure cited by you. But tell me about your justice, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u228	Mr President, I have already said what the rules in question were, if we wish to comply with the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking the Bureau to check.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u229	Madam Member, today, we are all here, so there is quorum to vote. Tomorrow, when the work starts or even when there are votes, we don't know. I therefore believe that this issue can be resolved today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u230	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u231	Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u232	Mr President, let me try to help solve this problem. I believe that the question is not the one to solve today or tomorrow. The issue can be resolved today. Mr. President, this morning, he made an order not to allow a bill. that decision shall be appealed in accordance with Article 16 ( 1 ( c ). the Rules of Procedure, and what Article 81(5) says. that of the Rules of Procedure is that, having this appeal which Mr Ventura has just intervened, he is immediately voted without discussion. Therefore, the issue can be resolved today in accordance with these regulatory procedures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u233	All right. That's my interpretation. In any case, I think that you have the right to invoke the reasons why you appeal. [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u234	Don't you? But is the PS in charge here? Oh, my God! Is the PS in charge of this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u235	I am sorry, but, Mr Ventura, with the same right that I had to disregard the schedule of your initiative for tomorrow's agenda, I give you the floor for 2 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems the Socialist Party is not very used to this, but it's going to have to get used to it. They don't seem to be too used to this, but they don't send in the country, they don't even send in this House. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, the draft legislative initiative of the Arrival was withdrawn from the agenda, because of a draft submitted by the Socialist Party — not only to increase the criminal frameworks for sexual aggressors, but also to impose chemical castration as an accessory to them. This proposal was considered by 1. the Commission, by a majority, as apparently unconstitutional, but it is our understanding that, like other initiatives that have been discussed and voted in the House politically - despite the reservations of unconstitutionality that have been announced and indicated - ours must also be. If we allow the opinion or consideration of 1. the Commission ends by making the initiative not reach plenary, we are opening a very serious precedent in our democracy and allowing a kind of first chamber of censorship to be created in this Parliament, and that is what we cannot tolerate. There are people who agree and there are people who disagree with our legislative initiative. But there's something the Portuguese want to see. The Portuguese want to see the subject discussed here, because it is discussed worldwide. A House that insists on denying the discussion is a House that turns its back on democracy, turns its back on pluralism of ideas and pluralism of opinions. That is not what Parliament used to see and that is not what Parliament wants to see. Therefore, Mr President, we are seeking to vote in plenary and this House decides whether the agenda is announced or whether the draft of the Arrival is inserted and voted tomorrow morning. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. While recognising, in line with the practice of the Presidents who preceded me in these functions, that the power to reject initiatives is absolutely exceptional and not failing to assume all my responsibilities, because they are mine, I raised doubts about the conformity of the content of this initiative with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic as soon as I accepted the bill in question. Doubts which have been confirmed by the opinion of several entities consulted during the legislative process such as the Supreme Council of the Magistracy. Doubts that have been answered in the opinion, which I asked for, approved by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, of which the constitutional inconformity of the initiative is clear, particularly after the clarifications requested by me, mandated by the Conference of Leaders. As all will be remembered, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an addendum to its previous opinion, concluding, on the two questions I asked, first, « (...) in this particular bill there exists a nuclear element whose constitutional inconformity seems insurmountable, and which is the intention to create an accessory penalty for chemical castration» ; second, « (...) is the Commission's understanding that, from a constitutional point of view, Bill 144 / XIV/1. a (CH) does not meet the requirements for the upload to the full." It is clear that the draft law does not meet the constitutional requirements to be discussed in plenary, under the applicable provisions, I have decided without prejudice to the right of appeal to the plenary which you are exercising with all legitimacy, which was without effect your schedule for plenary, assuming — and I want to make it clear — at all times of this process, the responsibility as President of the Assembly of the Republic. The responsibility of this decision is not 1. the Commission, to which I requested an opinion, is responsible for the President of the Assembly of the Republic. I would only say, as an accessory, that on the day when the President of the Assembly of the Republic scheduled, without any consultation, unconstitutional projects, how could one prevent them from being presented here, in this plenary, for example, projects for the legalization of the death penalty or projects for the resignation of the President of the Republic? with me, as President of the Assembly of the Republic, it will not happen. And so we're going to vote. [[PPS, PCP and PEV applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the appeal, tabled by Mr Ventura, Mr Ventura, of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u238	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u239	Mr President, there are no requests for a word for oral explanations of vote on these appeals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u240	Mr President, it is only to inform the House that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u241	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Telmo Correia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u242	Mr President, it is also for us, on behalf of the CDS, to say that we will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u243	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u244	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u245	Mrs. Monica Quintela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u246	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u247	Mrs. Members, it is recorded that they will present explanations of vote as well as the PS and the CFP. There will therefore be several explanations of vote on this rejection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u249	Mr Cristovão Norte, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u250	Mr. President, it is to record my presence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u251	All right, Mr. Deputies. Your presence is registered. Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u252	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u253	Your presence is recorded, Mr. Mrs. Monica Quintela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u254	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-27.u255	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Your presence is registered. By the way, we've heard it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this plenary session. Since the agenda for tomorrow's sitting has already been announced, I declare this sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 32 minutes.]]
