ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries to whom they can enter. In accordance with the agenda set for our plenary meeting today, we have a 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. however, while we wait, Mr Secretary will make some announcements, although there is a little more here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 259 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduces public funding to political parties and electoral campaigns, which fall to 1. the Commission, and Draft Resolution No 325 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — by promoting measures preventing the cutting of water supplies to families and by reducing the rates charged by the provision of this service, which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I know that soon there will be more diplomas that will have to be announced, but in any case, it is better to make these ads a little bit. Let us then start the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. in this case, it is up to the Left Block Parliamentary Group to initiate the debate and therefore I give the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by thanking the health professionals and all those who, in this country, perform essential functions and continue to perform them tirelessly, with all possible care. We are all grateful to those who continue to make everything that has to work in the country can continue to work. I would also like to thank all those who, not having essential functions at the moment, take up their homes, fulfill social isolation, because it is equally important and because this is how we make our contribution to this difficult time. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that this period will be long and that puts enormous pressure on the National Health Service ( SNS ). We even know that the challenge to health care can go beyond the capacity installed in the SNS. Surely he agrees with me when I say: I am glad that we worked so hard to strengthen the National Health Service. But we know that it is not enough and that it will be necessary more. We see the news about the way private hospitals have behaved. I remember, for example, the CUF hospital and the way it soon closed the emergencies or the irresponsibility of the SAMS Hospital, as we see the private laboratories making money with the tests, selling them to those who have no medical prescription or selling them to the state for 100 € when they have a cost of 30 €. So, Prime Minister, the question I would like to ask you is the following: would it not be time to make a civil request to the private to ensure all the means, with the necessary articulation and hierarchy, with the continuity of care and with the provision of necessary equipment? Knowing that the pressure on the National Health Service is so much, we know that this requirement is likely, I wonder if it would not be better to make them sooner than later. If the SNS is broken, isn't it much harder to integrate these services? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u5	To reply, I have the floor of Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Antonio Costa, to congratulate, as well as all the members of the Government here present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u6	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we have been articulating, either with the private sector or with the social sector, or with the armed forces, the integrated response capacity, depending on the worst scenarios of evolution, because it is for those we must be prepared for. Therefore, this articulation has been made, not only with the own capacity of the National Health Service. The Armed Forces have the capacity to provide 2000 beds and are currently performing works so that the Military Hospital for Infectious Diseases, in the Help, which has been closed for many years, can open a floor for use in case of need by next Monday. We have also been working with the hotel industry to be able to use hotels that are currently empty because of the lack of customers to accommodate people who are in isolation or people who are hospitalized in hospitals but who can perfectly be hospitalized outside hospitals, in order to free up space. This joint has been made. So far there has been no need to proceed with any civil requirements. The joint has been going on in a harmonious way. If civil requirements are to be used, we will use civil requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u7	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Left Block, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, our concern is that the health care strategy itself is intended for COVID and for all other health issues that remain. Therefore, we need a large and articulated capacity and we also need to ensure that there is necessary industrial production, in particular the individual protective equipment that has been missing. Therefore, we also believe that this could be the time for the Government to have an intervention on production capacity in Portugal, to ensure that there is no lack of equipment or other means necessary, in health or in other areas. But I would also like to ask you, Prime Minister, about the issue of dismissals. TAP fired 100 precarious workers and threatened that 700 other contracts could end. FNAC fired workers in an experimental period. Faurecia, Visteon, the company that is catering to airports and planes, fired workers with long-term contracts and temporary contracts. The IEFP itself (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) is not paying the trainers. Therefore, knowing that we have a prolonged and complicated crisis, the Left Block agrees with Mr. Prime Minister when he says that our priority should be to protect employment. So the question we are asking you is whether you do not think that it is time to go further to protect employment, particularly by making precarious, temporary contracts and in the long run what has been done with leases, i.e. to prolong to ensure that they do not end this period, because sending someone to unemployment in this period is the worst solution. It is clear to us that the economy needs more support to maintain employment—we have no doubt about it—a faster support, particularly for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which guarantee the majority of employment in Portugal. So does the government not consider giving more support, with more conditionality to maintain employment, in particular by calling the bank to this effort and ensuring the suspension of the banking benefits of companies in this period? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u9	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u10	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as we have said, the most important measure to sustain income is to guarantee employment and, for that, we must keep companies active. This has guided the set of measures we have outlined: measures to speed up the payment of Community funds, measures of new credit lines, measures to postpone the fulfilment of tax or contributions to the State and to speed up the use of layoffs in order to enable jobs to be supported. together with these measures, we have first made it clear that the use of layoff will not allow redundancies due to job extinction nor will it allow the use of collective redundancies. In fact, we have been monitoring the use of collective redundancies and the data we have, comparing the period between 1 and 20 March of this year with the period between 1 and 20 March of last year, indicate that last year we had nine collective redundancies cases, covering 56 workers, and this month we had 28 cases, covering 304 workers. However, we have been downgrading all these measures precisely to the absence of collective redundancies, but it is clear that it is impossible for the State to impose — as it has to impose to safeguard public health — the closure of companies without necessarily reflecting its functioning. It is not possible for an aviation company to have virtually all its paralysed fleet without this being reflected, too, in its contractual relations. I believe that today we have all had a clearer consciousness, for the information that has been given to us about the epidemiological study, that the impact of this crisis on the economy will be much deeper and, above all, much more lasting. Therefore, we must allow some mechanisms of « breath», concentrating a very important effort in the next three months to endure what is essential to endure, seeking to preserve companies without opening up early bankruptcy, supporting employment as far as possible and supporting the income of families as far as possible. This has to be a combined and tripartite effort and, more importantly, I would say even quadripartite. The honourable Member pointed out the contribution the bank has to make and, last Friday, the European Central Bank finally defined the last clarification it had to give on the framework that was defined to enable banks, without affecting their solvency ratio and without planning risks on new financial crises, to adopt moratoriums on both individuals and businesses. So, what we have planned is that during this week the Government can adopt the legislative framework necessary to ensure that these credit moratoriums, either to individuals, particularly in the housing credit, or to businesses, are ensured. This is absolutely essential for there to be no excessive pressure and for there to be, either on the private side or on the company side, a ‘breathing’ capacity. As far as employment is concerned, we have been monitoring, and we will continue to monitor, but I believe that it is not possible to have the illusion, nor should we create this illusion with the Portuguese, that it is possible to experience this crisis that we are living without the impact of employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u11	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for the answers and the intervention being made on the banking sector, which you have given us. It is a matter that we are following and which, at another time, we hope we can continue to discuss. I call attention to the following: collective layoffs are a drop in the ocean. If we do not stop the dismissal of precarious workers, with long-term and temporary contracts, we are sacrificing the younger generation. And in the same way that we have to protect the older generation from the health point of view, because they are the ones at greater health risk, the younger generation is also at greater risk from the economic point of view, and needs clear measures to protect it. I would like to ask you a question about the next European Council. The German Minister of Finance said today that he rejected the idea of Eurobonds and therefore European solidarity. We know that the flexibility of European rules does not mean without guarantees that austerity is not imposed again in the future. We will need investment and solidarity, because we already realize that neither the virus nor the economic crisis knows borders. Therefore, from our point of view it is important that the ECB ( European Central Bank ) enter the field as early as possible by directly financing States and, in particular, its capacity in both health and social security. We would like to know how the Portuguese Government feels about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u13	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u14	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I will reply briefly, because you have more time than I have. First of all, I want to say that we are well aware of the impact on young people, so we have renewed the scientific employment grants and the IEFP internships, and we are also making an effort, particularly with the technological centre of the clothing sector, to mobilize a large part of the textile industry to produce a set of equipment that we are acquiring. As for the European Council, this is a crucial discussion. This is the best proof that, because we have not concluded economic and monetary union in time, we will pay a high price today. All measures must be adopted, either lines of financing or the launch of Eurobonds, because it is essential to finance the impact, which is quite asymmetrical, of an absolutely exogenous, unexpected and symmetrical shock that we are all suffering. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u15	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u16	Mr President, I will try to be brief and, if I do not use as long as I have time, I will have every pleasure in what Mr. Prime Minister uses you to answer. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that this crisis is going to be long and that there are decisions we cannot make now—we need data and still today, in the morning, we have been discussing this very. However, there are decisions that must be taken now, which have to do with Easter holidays. What happens right now is that there is support for parents to accompany their children, but it does not extend during the Easter holidays. Now, having also been closed the centers of ATL (free time activities) and not being able to stay the children with the parents, we will need to prolong this solution for Easter holidays. Otherwise, I believe, we will have a problem of non-compliance with social isolation on the part of these families, because it is manifestly inability to find other solutions. On the other hand, I would also like to ask you whether the government does not consider extending this type of support, in particular to people who had elderly or disabled people in day-to-day centres or other social support centres who have closed, or even in cases where possible, so that people in their homes can be at home. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u17	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have created an extraordinary measure for an unexpected situation because this was not the "rule" situation. We will keep it on Easter holidays for day care, because day care should continue to work and will not work, but we will not keep it in relation to the situation which was foreseeable and which, therefore, was not unexpected. We must bear in mind that, on 9 April, the decision we are going to take may be to prolong this situation and this measure far beyond the Easter holidays. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u19	You now have the floor, to put your questions, Mr José Luís Carneiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u20	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: I want to begin by leaving a word of regret to the families of the fatal victims of the COVID-19 and of solidarity to all who, in Portugal and in the world, fight this pandemic. Let me also start by enhancing the patriotic sense of health professionals who risk their lives for all of us, hospitals, health centers, pharmacy, the homes of the elderly, at INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency), in firefighters, in all places where it is necessary to be careful and committed to those most needed: the patients, the elderly, the homeless, the children with special needs. Today they're some, we'll be tomorrow. What we want is to be treated with humanity by our families, our friends and health professionals, and to express gratitude to them. It is therefore for all of us a duty to this Parliament. We also celebrate the National Student Day today. It is fair at this time to pay tribute to students, teachers, families, schools and institutions of higher education for the effort and sense of mission that have allowed to remove all obstacles that have arisen since this crisis forced the suspension of educational activities. In all, we have the assurance that one of the pillars of citizenship, democracy and development is well-lived and secure in our country. The water that we drink and wash us, the electricity that enlightens and warms us, the goods with which we feed ourselves, the cleaning and arrangement of our streets, our gardens and our squares, the goods with which we dress and protect ourselves, our communications, the transports, the information, the culture and entertainment that keep us are goods that come to us because there is the hand and human intelligence to overcome fear, discouragement and tiredness, hands that believe in the future and to whom we are all grateful. The security forces and services and the military which, with strength and wisdom, guarantee the application of public health and civil protection measures, in a concrete exercise of the democratic authority which is synonymous with freedom, is also due to a word of thanks. It also sensitizes us, Prime Minister, the civilism and solidarity of the overwhelming majority of Portuguese, which respect the determinations of the health authorities and the political guidelines of the Government. In all the towns and towns and towns of this country there are examples of exemplary citizenship: in the citizens and ordinary citizens, in the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity), in the entrepreneurs and thousands of cities that give the best proof of public service we all agree that this national network of automatic solidarity will contribute to broadening and strengthening the measures adopted by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, seven days ago Parliament authorized the President of the Republic to determine the state of emergency. You said, in this Parliament, that the measures which the Government would adopt would be proportionate, limited and appropriate to the requirements of the country. More: he said that combating the epidemic would mobilize all means of the state, because he felt that it was about saving the lives of Portuguese people, and he added that it was also the government's duty to save the economy, the jobs and the incomes of families. For the honour of our parliamentary democracy, this has happened. in compliance with the state of emergency, the Government adopted measures which, by limiting some of the individual freedoms, for the purposes of collective protection, sought to ensure that all workers who contribute to the production of essential goods and services — namely security, or solidarity — will have the protection and support of the State for its exercise. This is the case with health, social protection, public administration, transport and communications, administration of justice and with security forces and services. in his communication to the country, Mr. Prime Minister, he told us that there was room for the hygienic walk, the trip with children and pets to walk outdoors — in compliance with all the safety and health rules, it is clear. We have seen, in his words, a deep sense of humanity, as demonstrated by the fact that it is difficult for him to cross with people on the street and see them bow their eyes to the ground, certainly with fear of the contagion. You are right, Prime Minister, we are an eminently social being. A small space of freedom, however small it may be, is for the human being as important as breathing. And the guarantees given to workers in the private sector, in terms of present and future income, are proof of this care with the safety of families in the present and with their hope in the future. Yesterday we were able to know the costs of layoff — EUR 1000 million per month — because, as I said, Prime Minister, this is not the time to make layoffs. at a time like this, taking away the work of someone is taking away the dignity and the horizon. Enterprises, which are crucial to employment, now have more than EUR 3000 million — 600 million for restoration and similar, 1100 million for tourism, 1300 million for the textile, clothing, footwear, extractive industries and the wood line — and the limitation of the spread and banking commissions relating to these credit lines, so far a concern factor for entrepreneurs, are also guaranteed, as we heard yesterday from the words of the Minister of Economy and Mr Prime Minister. In addition, other measures, as is the case with support for the important sector of agri-food, in access to the line of credit Capitalize, to meet the basic needs of management and treasury, in facilitating the settlement of payments of the Regional Development 2020 Programme, in setting up a monitoring group on the functioning of the distribution chain, among many other measures. The postponement of the special payment on account, the moratorium on the delivery of the IRC declaration and the flexibility in the payment of taxes to independent companies and workers well demonstrate the concern with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and their employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u22	The same is true of social security, with measures to reduce contributions to a third, in March, April and May, the possibility of splitting payments and support for the maintenance of employment contracts. We could also remember the more than 4500 Portuguese people who, at the world's deepest points, have had the support and the consular and diplomatic protection of the Portuguese state and government, in unequivocal proof that no one is left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, with this attitude of humility and sense of democratic duty, with the weighting of the decision-making process, never exempting the technical and scientific opinion of the national and European health authorities, and with the adoption of measures proportionate and limited to the needs of the country, Mr Prime Minister is today the great interpreter of the national will. To overcome this crisis, you have all our support for this. Allow me, to conclude, a question. We know that national cooperation efforts and their leadership are very important, but they do not, above all, exempt a strong commitment from the European Union to continue to maintain these measures. I therefore ask what measures the European Union can take to deal with this crisis, which is, above all, public health, but it is already a major economic and social crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u23	You now have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u24	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, this epidemic is not just a challenge in the area of health. It is, of course, a challenge to our sense of life in society, to the Community spirit that we must maintain between each of us, because it is at these difficult times that comes to the top the best and the worst of us. Fortunately, we have seen many examples of the extraordinary civilization of the country as a whole, of solidarity between generations, of the support of neighbors to the elderly isolated and who cannot leave the streets, of the local authorities that have been mobilized, of the companies that we have, being closed, make an extraordinary effort to maintain jobs, of the families who make a huge effort to adapt to the difficulties that arise because they have closed educational establishments or because they are separated from their loved and older families. It has been an extraordinary effort, but there have also been other cases that we cannot stop pointing and censoring. We need to think a little bit about everyone, often about those we don't remember right now and who are also having a particularly difficult time. It is true that the population that is isolated, because it has a special protection duty, has to deserve all our affection and all our attention. But we cannot ignore, for example, prisoners, who are deprived of family visits and who are in greater loneliness, who adds to the loss of freedom the absence of contact with their loved ones. We cannot ignore this extraordinary work, certainly, of all health professionals, but not only those who have to ensure the functioning of our society on a day-to-day basis, whether in companies where they work, whether they are providing essential services—such as the collection of waste, which has to continue to run—and whose professionals today, legitimately, feel the greatest fear of their tasks, as well as the very important work, and even excessively invisible, that ASAE (Food and Economic Security Authority) is currently doing to detect the situations of fraud, crime of speculation, to respond to and punish those situations that we have already had knowledge of, such as alcohol, gel, masks and other protective material, which are now being sold taking advantage of a regrettable situation for easy profit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at this moment, this work is being done, the cars are being lifted; there are 16 brigades on the street, addressing different economic agents, to combat this speculation situation. There is a very widespread and cross-sectional movement in Portuguese society. Of course, we have to look with great respect to the bereaved families, to the people who have sick relatives, to the people who are anxious at the moment to wait for the results of the analyses that they have made to know whether or not they are infected, to the people who have already been waiting for results and who, fortunately, were not infected, to the more than 11 000 people who are currently under surveillance, to the people who have already been sick and who are already cured. All these people suffered brutally. There are 2000 Portuguese people who are still scattered around the world today, detained and having difficulty returning to our country, because the borders have been closed and the air connections have been interrupted, which we are trying to help, either through their travel agencies, or indirectly, more easily when they are in group, more difficult when they are isolated, and Mr. Deputy, who has been for four years Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities, knows well the difficulties of maintaining this link permanently. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are also trying to help our compatriots who usually live outside Portugal, who are emigrants, but who have never stopped being Portuguese. Those to whom, in good hours, we always say that we miss them a lot, and to whom, often now, when they are unemployed out there or who, being sick, want to be treated in their country of origin, are, in many places, hearing that we don't want them here now, that they stay out there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is time to say no, this is even the time to affirm the decent Portugal we want to be. The Portuguese when they are out there are totally Portuguese and when they return they do not cease to be Portuguese,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... they have the right to return and here they are treated and we cannot close borders to anyone, to any Portuguese who wants to return to Portugal. As for the European Union, this is a very exemplary case. We have an exogenous shock, which is absolutely unexpected and which is symmetrical to all countries. However, the consequences are different from country to country. So this is a good demonstration, for those who have theorized that economic and monetary union was already sufficiently built and that it was enough for all of us and everyone to do their job to be all under asymmetrical crises, which, in this particular case, is in fact insufficient what has already been done in economic and monetary union. Portugal has rightly been cited as a great example of a country that has made a remarkable budgetary consolidation. Within days we will know the 2019 budget balance, but very likely we will have had a positive budget balance. We had a sustained reduction in our public debt, our debt interest had a very sharp and significant reduction. Nevertheless, at the first sign of crisis, the markets immediately reacted in the worst way. The European Central Bank's reaction was very positive, which allowed it to control this new risk of sovereign debt crisis with the intervention it made last week, after a very unfortunate phrase by the President of the ECB, in the previous week, but it is not enough and we cannot go here fooling each other. When the European Union speaks of a EUR 37 billion plan, today we know that it is not more than EUR 37 billion but the possibility of reprogramming the funds already allocated and with projects under Portugal 2020. This means that we are not doing what we are planning to do in order to be able to deal with this emergency situation. Does this flexibility help in this emergency situation? Yes, but it deprives us of doing what was planned, and it deprives us, above all, of having the economic muscle that the European Union must have to effectively respond to this crisis. at European level, as at national level, there are two moments ago. This moment, which is the emergency moment, and the medium and long-term moment. in the medium and long term we certainly need a major investment programme at European level, which is, in fact, intelligent and that helps the transition to digital society and the transition to the environmental paradigm, finally, of all the great challenges we have to face. You can call it Marshall, von der Leyen, the name you want, but what we need from this plan, we need! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in addition to the medium and long-term response, we need an answer already. And that answer already implies, indeed, new money. It involves new money to respond to the increased costs that national health services are having throughout Europe, to equip all professionals with the protective equipment they need, so that we can increase the number of tests to the population, to provide the National Health Service with the increased equipment that has to have in this situation of abnormality in which we are, but also to give the answer that is essential in order not to add to the health crisis an economic crisis and a social crisis. The support we are providing to companies and the support we are providing to families requires a common response. This is not a Portuguese, Spanish, Italian, German or Dutch problem, it is a common problem throughout the European Union and must therefore have a common response from the whole European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, and beyond the financial aspect, from a political point of view, so that Europe, in fact, can tell its citizens and everyone who responds together, it would be, symbolically, very important to have a joint debt issue, entitled Eurobonds, crownbonds or what they want to call it, but that there should be this answer, I should first for the financing of...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u25	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u26	I will now finish, Mr President. As I said, there should be a joint debt issue, not only for financing the different areas now in need of funding, but also because it would be a very strong political message that Europe would give its citizens as a whole and to the whole of the world: in the face of a common challenge, we are responding in common. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u27	You now have the floor to ask questions to the Prime Minister, Mr Ricardo Batista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. and Mr. Ministers, particularly Mrs. Minister of Health, who has led this fight, the battle of our lives against the coronavirus, through whom I meet all health professionals who are on the front line. This is a fight that will not be easy, that will be long and, as it has already been remembered, of which there have already been fatal victims in our country, so we leave a message of regret to all those families who have lost their loved ones, victims of this cursed virus. This must be a moment of union. We are now comrades, we are comrades, we are left, we are right, we have to be Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, objectively, we should not be here in this Chamber today. We should not be here because we are risking the second and third figures of the State, we are risking ministers who are in line with the government response, we are risking the sovereignty body that is the Assembly of the Republic. We asked the Portuguese to stay at home and we should have stayed at home, with a Permanent Commission working here. [[PSD applause.]] But that was not the understanding and therefore this is not, in our view, the time for political debate. That time will come back. We won nothing, in full exponential growth of new cases of COVID-19 in our country, with the party dispute, trying to find each other's faults. Therefore, let us take advantage of this moment, Prime Minister, to avoid this kind of debate, to avoid this type of discussion and focus on building solutions and moving the messages essential to Portuguese. That is what is required of us all, that is what the Portuguese are counting on right now. More than that, it is the future of our nation that depends on it. Therefore, Prime Minister, if we want to avoid the economic and social consequences of this crisis, it is crucial to ensure the timely and accelerated response to the coronary virus crisis. in reality, the economic and social impact will be very different if we manage to contain this situation in four weeks or four months. So the focus has to be that. It is important to strengthen the message, yes. Even though it is more difficult than a week of confinement at home, and people realize how difficult it is to stay in isolation, they have to stay at home. But more than that, Prime Minister, we need to protect our health professionals. I know that the Prime Minister agrees and has already reflected this concern in this debate. Those who are in the first line are the ones who are most exposed to infection and are the ones who are currently infecting more. We know that 8% of the total infections in our country are health professionals and many of them are referring to us all lack of material, lack of personal protective equipment. So it's time to appeal. There has been an enormous effort to collect donations. The Directorate-General for Health itself has placed on its website a notice that all companies and all those who want to donate goods and services report it to the Directorate-General for Health, to work with the Government, so that we can, in a national and collective effort, ensure that the first response of our National Health Service, the professionals of the first line, is protected. Each doctor who is infected is less one doctor treating patients. We need to protect our health professionals to save lives and it would be useful, Prime Minister, to explain to this House, but above all, to the country, what the government is currently actively doing to ensure this protection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u29	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u30	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Batista Leite, as I have already had the opportunity to do in the last debate we had here in the Assembly of the Republic, I would like to commend all parties for the sense of national unity with which we have faced this situation, which obviously does not preclude the ideological differences between us, the critical sense and the supervision that the Assembly of the Republic must have with respect to the performance of the Government and the duty of the Government to provide permanent information to the Assembly of the Republic. In order for this relationship and this spirit of unity to remain, it is essential that the relationship of trust, transparency and permanent openness to data regarding the evolution of this pandemic outbreak is linked. It was therefore very important today that we have all, together in the Infarmed building, to obtain the same level of information, as it is important that these data become increasingly discriminated against, as in the issue of today's newsletter, which already provides information discriminated against by each of the councils. As I said, this is not easy and, above all, it will be long. We are all aware that, after this first pandemic curve, we can probably have the risk of a second one, we know that we are going to live another winter without having a vaccine available and that, at the same time that, as was said this morning, we press the spring to avoid widespread contamination today, we are at the same time reducing the universe of the population that will naturally be immunized. So we have to look at this challenge not as a 100 m race but as a marathon, a battle that we will certainly have to stop until we have a vaccine available, I would say that in the spring of next year, or in the meantime, until doctors have been able to identify a treatment that can be more effective. In view of this situation, there is a fundamental duty that we all have to have. Without creating alarmisms or dramatization, we must not fail to insist daily with the Portuguese with the message that the first condition to prevent this situation is to comply with the rules of isolation, social separation and hygiene: to wash our hands, to avoid doing that gesture, which we all naturally do, to move in our face, to resist the temptation to greet ourselves. And for this, we really have to have a huge discipline. at this stage, we are even all public health agents, because it is the discipline of everyone who depends on the success of this first phase. Mr Deputy said, well, that the first priority we have to have is to protect those who are in front of the fight, who are the health professionals, and therefore investing in their protection is absolutely essential. Allow me to read discriminatoryly the set of equipment that we have now ordered and that we expect to be delivered: 380 482 coats; 549 837 protective suits; 6 813 259 sterilized gloves; 10 674 459 non-sterilized gloves; 368 397 visceral masks; 17 145 762 surgical masks; 8 665 775 FFP2 and FFP3 masks; 743 575 footwear protectors; 1 261 492 coughs, and so on. It is indeed a huge effort — we and all the other countries — in a market that is particularly rare. That is why, at the same time, we are carrying out orders of forms and with the most extraordinary experiences. The fact is that we are currently working with the national industry to try to meet a set of these needs. For example, CEIIA, the centre of automotive and aeronautical engineering and innovation, is currently working at 100 % to allow the creation of a ventilator prototype and working with a set of national industries to start testing the national construction of fans in the coming weeks. There are a number of companies, or university institutions, or research laboratories that have been developing rapid testing prototypes so that we can massify these tests. One of them will start entering the end of the week in experimentation at the Hospital da Cruz Red. Even today, I believe that in the Public, there is news that Prof. Maria Manuel Mota's team is also advanced in its ability to develop a rapid test and is currently in dialogue with Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) so that it can be introduced. We are working through the Technology Centre of Textile and Clothing Industry, so that we can precisely support a set of textile industries — which are currently not active in their traditional areas — so that they can redirect their work to this type of production, whether of masks or of other type of personal protective equipment. This is an absolutely essential investment. It is essential not only in the short term but also, above all, in view of the fact that we are running a marathon and, as is the case in the war economies, in which many of the industrial activities are, at that time, redirected to the production of war material, we now have to reorient much of the traditional industrial activity for the production of these personal protective equipment, or of equipment essential to the functioning of the National Health Service and to respond to this threat of coronavirus. We must also strengthen our research effort and it is very good that there is at least one Portuguese company in one of the major European consortia that is investigating the new vaccine. I hope there are others and there are more. Very soon, the Directorate-General for Health will release all anonymous data, in order to allow access by all research teams, from the most different areas, to, with the use of artificial intelligence tools for biological or epidemiological research, we can scale the capacity for research and innovation. It is in fact necessary to mobilise all resources and open data in this area are absolutely essential, now that there is already a critical mass and that we have conditions for anonymizing, i.e. making all the data that will be made available, to protect the right to the protection of individual data from all citizens, especially those who are tested and diagnosed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u31	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for the answers. In fact, we consider all the support we can give in order to ensure that this entrusted material reaches those who need it. We're here! It is essential that those who are on the ground, in emergency services, in intensive care units, in health centres, in firefighter corporations, in short, all those who need, in fact, this material, in the first line of response, receive it. This logistical distribution, this raising of needs, will be a herculale task, as the number of new cases is rising and when we enter the thousands of cases, as has already happened, having our country overcome the barrier of the 2000 cases. But there is also another issue, Mr Prime Minister, which we are still discussing this morning and which is the following: from the moment that the country raises the restrictive measures of social isolation of the Portuguese and tells people who can already leave home, we are at risk of having a second wave, a second tsunami of new infections. There is basically only one country that has achieved — apparently, because the virus is new and we are learning every day — to stop this second wave, which was South Korea, and made it - clearly identify all potential infected, testing all potential infected, identifying all their personal contacts and testing them as well. This implies an effort that has to be made in terms of national coordination and, eventually, the link with other State bodies, particularly with the Armed Forces and others, but also involves ensuring timely and strategic access to the tests that Mr. Prime Minister has already said are commissioned. We'll see if they'll be in enough amount, but there's already a first drive. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, in this effort to ensure that there is no such second wave, as far as it is possible, at least to control as a State, it would be important for the Portuguese to realize what is being done on the part of the Government and also what extraordinary measures will be necessary on the part of the various bodies, including this one. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u34	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the outset, we have said that, as a marathon, the measures must be gradually and gradually adopted, because the greatest risk is that there is fatigue in relation to the measures that are adopted and that there is illusion, that many people have, that if we were closed at home for 15 days, the virus was passed. I think today everyone has become aware that this is not the case. What we combined today is that before April 2nd, when the Assembly has to appreciate the extent, or not, of the state of emergency, we will have a session with the epidemiologists who were with us today to assess the evolution of the situation. I think we both share the same judgment that we can do today. Today, with the data we know today, what we can predict is that, surely, the reasons that determined last week, the state of emergency will continue on April 2, and it will have to be continued. This is evolutionary. We're learning every day. Today, the bulletin gave better news than yesterday's, but nothing assures us that tomorrow's newsletter has no worse news than today's newsletter, because the media are the result of day-to-day variations. So we have to keep ourselves serene for, at the very moment, at the end of the month, we will do this re-evaluation, and then on April 9, we will have to re-evaluate what we will do from day 14 when the Easter holidays end, and how the third school period will take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u35	I request you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u36	We will have to go ahead with this assessment, in order to ensure that at every moment we have the ability to adapt the measures that are necessary and adjusted at the time we have to adopt them, but with the awareness that we will certainly have to take many measures over the next few months. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u37	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u38	Mr President, I will try not to spend as much time as I still have available to give Mr Prime Minister a few seconds to answer. Mr. Prime Minister, quickly, wanted to talk about the issue of fans. As has already been said several times, their access is a matter of life or death. It would be important to understand what is the point of the situation about its acquisition and also of the human resources that we know are needed. There are currently many internal doctors who were being trained in intensive care who are being diverted to other services and who will be critical to that response. Or do you eventually consider importing human resources, as other countries are doing, bringing professionals from other countries? It is also important to understand what is being done, in terms of the National Health Service, in relation to all other patients who are not coronary-infected patients, because the National Health Service has to continue to respond to these patients and we have to ensure this response capacity. There is still the issue of the Health Line 24, which is, at present, in fact, as Mr Prime Minister has already acknowledged, with difficulties, because it has largely exceeded its past use. We would like to know whether we can have the capacity to increase that response in order to ensure the protection of those who seek the Health Line 24 are in fact not respiratory, potential patients infected with the COVID-19, and those who objectively may be infected. One last question, Prime Minister, about something that can once again be the difference between life and death. We know that there is no vaccine and it is important for the Portuguese to realize that, while we do not have the vaccine, we will hardly have the normality that we live in. So far, the only thing that will be left to us will eventually be effective treatment in order to avoid high mortality such as what we have today. There are already antimalarial and other treatments that seem to have satisfactory results and that can be a help in these situations of life or death. Some countries, such as France, have already ordered these pharmaceuticals. I wonder if the government is already preventing itself from doing so as well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u39	You have the floor, if you want to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, so you have 16 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u40	Mr President, Mr President, first of all I must say that we are currently planning the reorientation of intensive doctors from other areas to this specific area of COVID-19. Secondly, as you know, from 00:00 on the 26th day, we will gradually move on to make the separation between COVID-19 and the other diseases in order to ensure, in the National Health Service, the treatment appropriate to the generality of Portuguese, who continue to have other diseases than COVID-19. We are considering an idea, which, in fact, placed still this morning, with regard to the Health Line 24, so that there may also be some segmentation about the services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u41	Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, now that the Question Time has ended with Mr. Prime Minister, as I was directly called into question for his intervention, I must tell you that this plenary, all the others who existed and those who will exist were decided at the Leaders Conference by a large majority of representatives of the parties present. More: we must set an example for prevention and work, because we must not forget that there are millions of workers who are sacrificing themselves every day so that I, you and our families can eat, we can have a minimally normal life in terms of health and safety. I didn't want to stop telling you this. [[PS, BE, PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u42	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u43	Mr President, I do not know what kind of regiment you want to exercise. If it is the defence of honor, I must say that I proceed to defend my honour, but please, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u44	Mr President, you have addressed me directly, so I believe that it will allow me to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u45	Please. You'll have to hear my answer later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u46	It is simply to say, Mr President, that the PSD has proposed that Parliament continue to operate with a Standing Committee. Work would continue! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u47	We'd just avoid putting everyone at risk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u48	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u49	in this case, Mr President and the majority are wrong. [[Congrats by PSD Member Rui Rio.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u50	Mr President, one of the issues we resolved yesterday was that the parliamentary groups should have one fifth of the Members in the Chamber. Do you know how many Members the PSD should have in the Chamber right now? It should be 18. Do you know how many Members you have? It's 36. I am sorry, but this is not the responsibility of the President, it is the responsibility of your bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u51	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u52	Mr Rui Rio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u53	Mr President, I must tell you that I fully agree with what Mr Baptista Leite has said, but I also agree with what Mr President has said now, because the PSD said that he was going to have 16 and has here a number of his Members who should not be and are. I'm going to be the first to leave, to set an example to those who are here and shouldn't be. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[At the moment, PSD Member Rui Rio withdrew from the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u54	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa from the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u55	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by welcoming, at this difficult moment, the health professionals who are in line with this fight against epidemic outbreak, but also an extended greeting to the civil protection professionals, as well as to the security forces and all those who guarantee, with their work, the functioning of the country and the essential goods for the lives of the people. Epidemic outbreaks continue to place as the first priority the protection of professionals and the adoption of measures to prevent and expand the response capacity of the SNS, aiming at combating their spread and clinical response. Do not forget, Mr Prime Minister, that the beds available must be prepared with a sufficient number, taking into account developments in the situation. But if this is the first priority, it is also necessary to intervene in other areas, with measures to protect wages and incomes, to ensure economic activities under possible conditions, as well as the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. There are already many situations in which the epidemic outbreak is confirmed as a pretext for dismissals, cuts in wages and salaries, attacks on workers' rights and the most diverse arbitrariness. One of the most urgent measures to be taken is the prohibition of redundancies, not only in companies seeking access to State support, but in all companies in which economic grounds for such dismissal are invoked, including so-called « false green receipts ». In addition, it is necessary to ensure conditions for the early intervention of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) in order to put an end to abuses, including early holiday enjoyment impositions, unilateral changes in schedules, premium cuts, allowances, including meal allowance, or refusal to exercise parental rights. None of this is admissible and there must be a quick intervention! Another concern: the problem of workers who had to stay at home taking care of their children, following the closure of schools. Whether this situation determines a reduction in the salary of 66% or because it is not intended to apply this system of absence to work during the Easter holiday period, in which many families were counting on the ATLs, who will continue to be closed, the truth is that at the moment there are many thousands of workers facing the need to return to work, leaving their children with their grandparents. However, as one of the situations to be avoided, it is necessary for the Government to take measures to ensure that workers are able to comply with the health guidelines that are determined without their rights and income being challenged. Mr Prime Minister, during the last 15-year debate, we asked the Government about the situation of the elderly. However, concerns have increased, not only with regard to the situation of those who are at home but also with those who depend on day-to-day centers. It is necessary to ensure conditions for the functioning of homes to ensure the prevention and containment of epidemic outbreaks, and for this it is essential that there is a proper link between social security and health in urgent action. But we have another problem: the situation of the elderly who need support from day-to-day centers to take medication in time and hours, to do their hygiene, to eat meals. With the closure of day-care centres, these elderly persons were in a situation of de-protection or because institutions do not have workers or vehicles to provide home support or because social security agreements do not include them. In either case, it is essential that the Government take the necessary measures to strengthen the response of home support to the elderly so that health problems do not get worse. How will the government respond to all the problems we have raised? Yes, Prime Minister, we do not demand miracles, but we want answers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u56	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u57	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all I speak to the elderly. The elderly are identified as the highest risk group — they are at greater risk of being infected, they are at greater risk of having more serious diseases if they are infected and therefore lack more hospitalization and, in the case of hospitalization, more invasive treatments. So it's a risk group. Therefore, in the set of measures we have taken under the state of emergency, we choose precisely the elderly as a group that is subject to a special duty of protection. The word "duty" here aims, above all, to convey the message to all — who must take seriously — of the need to protect their health. But the special duty of protection prevents all of us. That is why we all need to adopt a set of measures to respond to the situation of the elderly. Of course, those who are at home — still yesterday, there was a meeting with the whole third sector to adopt a set of measures aimed at ensuring the best conditions of protection, the elderly being the population stratum where we are to admit, from the outset, the mobilization of hotel units to serve as an installation to those who lack care that cannot be provided by other means — but also to the isolated elderly. And, in this case, it has been extraordinary the movement, which is spontaneous, of neighbors, relatives or institutions such as local authorities, which have strengthened their social network of support to the elderly isolated. And it is very important, whether in the localities, or in the neighborhoods of the cities, that connection with local trade, which is closed, namely restoration. For this reason, we have opened up precisely the hypothesis of both the delivery service to the household and the lifting of food, which is a fundamental network to support elderly people who lack the conditions to be fed. We've also been doing a job with the pharmacies. It is essential to maintain this network of proximity and guarantee this link with the elderly. And that has to be a priority. Second situation: what happens to the economy. It is not possible to decree the closure of much of productive activities, to determine the isolation of people without this having a high cost to the economy. We don't know, none of us know, how long this crisis will last. There is one thing we all know, and today we could confirm: before June, it is very early to have a medium-term view on the impact of this situation. Therefore, what the government has adopted as a principle is to hold the situations that exist until the end of May, preventing the closure of companies, preventing dismissal and supporting the income of families. This requires a tripartite effort between the State, companies, workers. But it also requires the bank to make a positive contribution, not only in the proper implementation of credit lines, but above all in the creation of moratoriums, both for businesses and for families, so that we can manage this period so that we can get through this three-month period with the best possible health, either from the physical point of view itself or from the economic and social point of view. And that is where we can make decisions about the future, and that is what we've been doing. We have been monitoring what the unemployment situation is, we have imposed restrictions on the granting of support to those who promote unemployment, and specifically we have activated the layoff with a condition for banning the use of collective dismissal or the extinction of jobs due to economic crisis. However, it is not worth having the illusion that it is possible to live this three-month period without costs for the State, without costs for companies and without costs for those who work. We will have to share these costs in solidarity so that we can live these three months in the best possible conditions and, from there, we can look at and see how the economy returns to a medium-term horizon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u58	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, could offer you a letter from TAP to fire a long-term contract worker. Mr Prime Minister, in this situation we are going through, national production cannot be stopped, whether it is food or medicine, as it must be prevented from cutting off the supply of other essential services, including water, electricity, gas and communications. It is also necessary to be aware of developments in the prices of these services, using mechanisms for regulating or fixing prices and combating speculation. It is not acceptable for the crisis situation we are going through to be a pretext for the economic groups operating in those essential services sectors to decide how they understand the prices they are practising. Mr. Prime Minister likes to say we're all together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u60	We have to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u61	These, who decide, are not with us, of course! [[PCP applause.]] As I was saying, it is not acceptable for the crisis situation we are going through to be a pretext for the economic groups operating in those essential services sectors to decide how they understand the prices they practice. The same is true of other products whose prices have been increased with pure and simple speculation. And we're not just talking about the most mediated cases, which he mentioned, the alcohol, the gel or the masks. We are talking about other products, including food goods, such as meat, fish or vegetables. It is essential that a certain action be taken by the competent authorities in order to combat speculation. Mr. Prime Minister, one last problem, that of non-compliance with bank claims...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u63	It is essential that measures be taken to prevent economic difficulties, which are already affecting businesses and families, often leading to non-compliance with bank credits. Finally, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is essential that support measures be taken, particularly the payment of credits or others that are appropriate in the face of the problems that both families and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises go through. Mr. Prime Minister, because you did not answer, I would like to hear about the Easter holiday issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u64	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u65	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, did not answer that question because he had already done so before. But I'm going to repeat. We have adopted an exceptional measure to support families whose children no longer have presenceal educational activities. This measure, perhaps, will have to continue beyond the Easter holidays. And we adopted this measure with exceptional nature because it was an absolutely unexpected situation. Holiday is not an unexpected situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u66	But the ATLs are closed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u67	We are well aware that these vacations will have their own circumstances and that is why, for the children who are on the daycare grounds, we resolve to maintain this support during the vacation period. However, we must bear in mind that this support costs EUR 296 million per month — a lot of people expected to last until the Easter holidays — but on April 9 we will have to decide whether to continue beyond the Easter holidays. We do not know what we will know on April 9, but today we are very likely to know that the third period will not be very different from what these last few weeks have been.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u68	I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u69	We must therefore weigh all these measures. Finally, and I will conclude by saying to the honourable Member that, as I have recently had the opportunity to mention, ASAE is, at this very moment, with 16 brigades on the street carrying out monitoring actions. There are already four criminal processes that have been raised, four more are in documentary evidence for transmission to the Public Prosecutor's Office and a systematic investigation is being done in the most critical sectors of activity and where there have been signs of attempts at speculation crimes or other market abuse crimes. Asae is acting and will be repressing, because, in fact, as you said, we must all be together and we cannot allow those who use this opportunity to not be with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u70	To put questions, you have the floor by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you very much for the clarifications you have given us. Today's meeting is, moreover, the second opportunity for us to know more about what we are discussing. I would also like to make it clear that the CDS preferred the other model for this meeting, but we democratically followed the decision of the Conference of Leaders. Mr Prime Minister has always spoken in gradual and progressive action, and perhaps there has been some initial disagreement, since the CDS defended more drastic measures at an early stage. What is right, Mr Prime Minister — and we have seen this this this morning — is that the measures that have been taken and which have merited our support have been correct, particularly the closure of schools. We have seen today that the closure of schools and the state of emergency may have helped improve the epidemic curve. We note this as a positive one, as is clear. Mr Prime Minister, and I would ask you to make it very clear on this point, that the issue of testing and its generalisation will be an important instrument, that is what he said to us. I wonder when we will have this generalization, how many tests per day this generalization will mean and how many people can be tested at the height of this generalization of the tests. Secondly, the equipment you talked about will certainly be necessary, but yesterday, in an interview, Mr. Prime Minister gave us the assurance that I accept as good and that I take as very important, that our National Health Service will not go into collapse, that we will ensure that it will work. Will this be done on the basis of the equipment that Mr. Prime Minister has already commissioned or will it be necessary to order even more? Allow me to tell you, Prime Minister, that I accept your guarantee as good, but I will no longer fully agree with your statement that so far you have not missed anything, because that is not what we have seen or that is the information that comes to us every day. from what I see, Mr. Prime Minister, the general idea is that there has been a lot lacking in front-line professionals, doctors and nurses, including protective equipment. If there's nothing going to be missing from here, but we have a good idea that so far a lot has been missing, Mr. Prime Minister, so I'm also asking you about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u73	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I would like to stress that progressiveity and graduality are required either from the point of view of the democratic rule of law or in the long-term management that we have to make of this relationship. I have no doubt that many of the people who defended the adoption of immediate measures usually mentioned the Macau case, saying: "We have to do as Macau and close everything for 15 days. at the end of 15 days, we will reopen and everything will be all right». Today we all know that this is not the case, because these measures must be sustained and sustainable in time. Only one week has passed since the schools were closed and we have to measure, in parallel and step, how the spring withstands the pressure to have everything closed. It is not only from the financial point of view of the State, it is not only from the company's point of view, it is not only from the point of view of family income; it is also from the point of view of other dimensions of health, including mental health which is essential for the country to maintain, as a whole, the mental health of those who will be subject to a prolonged isolation situation. So we need to manage these measures gradually, especially because we do not know if we are going to have a second strike. We don't know what the next winter is going to be like, and as such we have to keep people's capacity for action and availability of attention, or we run the risk of actually living the situation of Peter and the Lobo. People who are aware of the emergency need to remain aware of it within a month and perhaps during the next winter. That is why gradualism and progressiveity are very important for all of us to maintain the same determination and firmness over the period, which will be long, that we will have to face.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u75	I'm not saying that, here or there, there was no lack of good. What I'm saying is that nothing has yet been essential to cope with the situation and treat the different patients. Recently, in reply to Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I had the opportunity to read the extensive list of ordered materials, and if we are ordering it, it is because we feel we need it. For example, we are making a huge effort to acquire fans. Regarding the tests this morning, there was an opportunity to hear the technical opinion of how this intervention should be graduated and no one has defended a widespread test to all the elements of the population, nor do I believe there is anyone with this opinion in the scientific community. What has been said was something else and that is why we are preparing, from then on to test those who have to intervene in the first line, secondly the risk population, and so on, in order to use this resource with account, weight and measure, depending on its effective usefulness for the containment of this epidemic. The honourable Member asks whether we are going to order more fans and I answer that we are buyers. There is an open competition at European Union level, in which we sign up to acquire 500 units, and we have already bought 535 from China, but we wait for them to arrive. However, every day we have unpleasant surprises about what is going on in terms of supplies, delivery times and payment conditions. What I can tell you is this: in the morning of Monday, at 2 p.m., Lisbon time, the Portuguese State paid $10 million for the acquisition of 500 fans and since then the delivery period has been dilating considerably. This happens because, at the moment, contrary to what you can think, it is not only Portugal that is looking for fans, dresses, masks... Unfortunately, everyone is buying and, on that day, we either paid or lost the order to another country, because what was previously hired, which was a mere guarantee, proved insufficient and the problem had to be solved soon. We are therefore available to continue to hire and I would like to take this opportunity to thank the enormous availability of the platforms of Portuguese companies and economic groups that work in China to collaborate with the Portuguese State in mobilizing resources for the acquisition of the material we are in need, since today, as you know, given the worldwide distribution of production, much of the material we lack is precisely produced in the People's Republic of China. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u76	Mr Telmo Correia continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u77	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, that is why I said that, from this point of view, the sooner the better. Mr. Prime Minister, within the same subject, but changing the subject, I wanted to address the issue of social protection. Today, March 24, the IPSS, which are playing such an important role in this area, do not yet know what the increase in participation will be by 2020. I ask you, therefore, whether Mr Prime Minister and the Government are available, or not, to reflect the increase in the minimum wage, to which we have given our agreement, in sharing with the institutions of the social sector. On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to know whether the Government is in a position to support those who are in the first line, for example to care for the elderly, at the level of the protective material, because there is no distinction from this point of view between the public, the private or the social sector. They are all elderly and they will also need help. Question : What help can the government, the state?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u78	Mr Prime Minister no longer has time to answer, but in any case he can do so if any bench wants to give in time. Mr Telmo Correia, do you intend to do so?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u79	Mr President, I have some difficulty in giving time, because I would like to leave another issue to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u80	Sir, I asked, I didn't insinuate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u81	Mr President, I will spend the rest of my time, and Mr Prime Minister will surely respond if he has a chance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u82	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u83	The other question I would like to put to Mr Prime Minister — trying to be useful, because it was a question that was not discussed in the debate — has to do with the economy and the economic measures that the Government has taken. The CDS has supported all the economic measures taken, there is no doubt about it, but we believe that some of them can be clearly insufficient. I give you some examples, Prime Minister, starting with layoff. The simplified layoff has already had two simplifications after it has been presented, but perhaps it still needs simplification. Indeed, having to have a turnover of 40 % in two months is not sustainable, because when companies are finally in a position, there will no longer be companies, and it is mainly up to them to work. For this reason, Prime Minister, I ask you whether we will not have to move forward to a solution such as, for example, a 20 % break in March, since the impact has been above all this month. At the same time, I'm asking and leaving a suggestion. Mr Prime Minister, in the case of companies that were forced to close because they had no other option, I ask you if you do not think that the participation of the State should be even greater. Finally, the State is responsible for 70 %, i.e. for two thirds of the salary, but in companies that have been forced to close, I do not know whether such participation should be even greater. Nor do I know, Mr Prime Minister, whether payments should not be provided directly by social security, because, in the situation where companies are, when they have to make payments to be subsequently reimbursed by social security, we are introducing mechanisms that will make these payments later and harder. As a suggestion, Mr. Prime Minister, I think we should avoid all bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u84	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u85	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In some cases opinions are requested, from the Institute of Tourism, etc. , and I understand that now is the time to rely on companies and think if we should not even suspend or cancel certain payments, including the TSU ( single social rate ). During this period, should some of these payments and participations not simply be abolished?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u86	Mr Prime Minister does not have time to answer, but these very important questions will certainly take advantage of them during other speeches he will make in the debate. To put questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u87	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me, in this context, to thank all health professionals, all those who are providing essential goods and services for the operation of the country, all consular officials who have worked hard to help our compatriots abroad and all those who are at home fulfilling social isolation, such an important measure for the preservation of the health of all of us. Mr. Prime Minister, in the fight against this silent enemy, the scientific community is unanimous about the need to implement preventive policies. Because there is contagion before there are symptoms, it is fundamental to test, test and test. Testing with priorities hierarchy and tracking. This is how South Korea and Germany are overcoming aggression and saving the population from devastation. The identification of cases in the community results in fewer personal, social, political and economic costs, both medium and long-term. We need to be faster than the virus and we can't test only those who have symptoms. We have to test everyone in contact with whom you have symptoms, we have to test who is in the front line, we have to test those who can't stay at home and ensure the essential needs and services for people. We must test the health professionals, the elements of the security forces, firefighters, prison guards, those who work in the homes of the elderly, the caregivers, those who drive buses and trains, those who distribute and sell food every day. We have to test all those who are socially most exposed. We must have the assurance that whoever is in contact with people is not infected, but, if he is, we must identify the entire transmission chain. To save lives, we must contain this invisible enemy and to contain it we must guarantee the continuity of social isolation and test. We need to track down and track the transmission chains to the last link. The tests can not only be performed as a diagnosis, but also, above all, as a strategy of suppression in the community, with early screening and identification of cases. Many have compared this epidemiological crisis to a war, theatre where information is crucial. Says The Art of War that, when we meet ourselves and the enemy, we do not need to fear the result of 100 battles, but when we do not know the enemy or ourselves, we lose all battles. We are next to the Government, Prime Minister. We recognize your work, we understand and follow the gradual measures, but we do not understand measures to account. The efficiency to identify infected people is the key point at this stage. The pace of screenings in Portugal is much slower than the virus and I therefore leave the following questions to you, Prime Minister: when will the government ensure the tracking of all professionals who are on the front line to combat this virus? Will the government take the screening as a strategy to prevent and control the spread of the virus? When will the government institute procedures for traceability of people in the community and ensure the cutting of transmission chains? How will the expertise of national and international experts experienced in the fight against COVID-19 be integrated? When is the government going to protect all our health professionals, civil protection and security forces, ensuring the necessary personal protective equipment?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u88	I should have gone to the meeting this morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u89	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u90	Mr President, Mr André Silva, much of these issues have already been answered this morning, but I would like to tell you, telegraphically, that the Directorate-General for Health is concluding a risk stratification standard, which will be relevant, either for the test strategy or for the definition of personal protective equipment suitable for each risk situation. It is, above all, very important that we do not replace the technical and scientific criteria that we should govern our action by 'achism' or political volunteerism. We have to have some criteria and I only see one: follow what technicians and scientists say should be the prevention standards and their proper hierarchization. As for tracking, what is expected is that it is increasingly essential to identify what are the active transmission lines, to seek to do, as has been done since the beginning, its design and mapping of the contact universes. And that's why, right now, we have 2362 people with confirmed tests, but we have 11,842 people in surveillance. And why are they on surveillance? Because we are precisely tracking the risk of multiplying this contagion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u91	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u92	Mr President, Prime Minister, the health crisis of COVID-19, due to the restriction of economic activities and the movement of people, is also causing enormous impacts on the economy, jobs and income of families. And we cannot stop telling you at this time about the self-employed, who, due to the precariousness associated with their professional activity, are the ones most affected by this crisis. The Government has announced support for family assistance and support for activity reduction, which, being positive, is not enough. Given the extraordinary circumstances in which we live, support must be of a higher value, they should be defined by reference to the national minimum wage rather than the IAS (indicating social support) and, in the case of support for family assistance, they should become two-thirds of the contribution base. Mr Prime Minister, is there room for extending the support granted to self-employed people? A fundamental right we must also protect at this stage is the right to housing for all those who find themselves in a more vulnerable situation. The Government has already taken measures to protect this right, particularly for the protection of tenants. However, protection measures were parked for those who bought their home through credit to housing. Now, knowing that measures have already been taken in Spain and Italy, knowing that the ECB ( the European Central Bank ) has already approved it in measure, will the Government ensure that the payment of credit to housing benefits to those affected by the economic effects of the pandemic is suspended, that they are clients of the Box, that they are private bank customers? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u94	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the situation is extraordinary and therefore we have taken extraordinary measures, especially for self-employed people, not simply leaving them in accordance with the rules of their own social security regime. Thus, this support is modeled for those who had to stop their activity. It is not limited to 1 IAS, but has at least 1 IAS and a maximum of 2, 5 IAS depending on its reported income in the first months of this year. With regard to housing, we have adopted measures on the expiry of contracts and, as I have already said, this week we will close the diploma that will ensure bank moratoriums on corporate credits and also credit to households. Mr President, allow me to use the rest of my time so as not to leave a few questions that have been raised and also to deal with questions of social support. Firstly, I refer to the IPSS, whose work is fundamental and whose workers have often been forgotten about the extraordinary effort they are doing. Yesterday, at the meeting with the IPSS, we were informed that not only did we keep all the participations like the update is EUR 59 million compared to last year, in addition to a specific credit line of EUR 160 million devoted solely and exclusively to the IPSS. As for the simplified layoff, it is true that there have already been two simplifications and the good news I have to give is that there is even a third simplification, which aims to solve the difficulty of interpretation of what that means the variation relative to the previous 60 days by reference to the homologous period. Therefore, what has been established is that there is a break in activity for the 60 days before or for the 60 days prior to the same period, because we have to take into account that January and February this year, for example in tourism, were particularly good months. That needs to be taken into account. It must also be borne in mind that it will be automatic for companies that have been closed under the state of emergency and that there will be no opinion whatsoever, because they will be simply dispensed in order to speed up allocation. It is that the priority is to respond urgently to support employment and prevent redundancies, which is a fundamental condition for maintaining the income of families and also the liquidity of businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u95	To put questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u96	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me to address, firstly, a word of recognition to all those, men and women, who continue to work and to ensure that the country does not stop, but also to all the health professionals who continue, in an exemplary way, to do everything to combat this collective threat. I begin precisely by referring to health professionals, because, Prime Minister, the reports that come to us from those on the ground—and they are many reports—give us that they continue to lack individual means of protection so that these professionals can develop their work safely. In fact, INEM technicians, nurses and doctors tell us that there is a lack of personal protective equipment, which may create a serious problem for themselves but may also be conditioning the fight against this threat. On the other hand, the Order of Physicians came to appeal to the offer of protective equipment for the SNS to address the stock problems in hospitals. I ask whether or not there is a lack of personal protective equipment or if we run the risk of it being able to happen. On the tests, Mr. Prime Minister, today a study was released by a group of researchers from the Faculty of Medicine of the Port, which tells us that if the number of tests were tripled, they would avoid - only in the next 10 days, more than 900 hospitalizations, which would, of course, relieve the pressure of the SNS, save more lives and there would be fewer opportunities for contagation, in addition to saving millions of euros to the state. I would therefore like to know how you look at this study, even because Mr Prime Minister said, well, that he gave all the attention to science, and whether the government is thinking about increasing the ability to test. As regards companies, Prime Minister, it is necessary to put a stop to the abuses which are occurring, on the one hand, with regard to the speculation of the prices of goods, on the other hand, to know whether the Government is considering setting prices, for example for individual protective materials, or whether we are going to continue to watch this galloping inflation, and on the other hand as regards the illegal and moral abuses some companies are making with their workers. Every day, we have received numerous complaints of situations that are absolutely abusive and show how many companies are reacting to the situation — closures without notice to workers, dismissals in various sectors, forced holidays, advice for medical casualties, people sent even before the end of the term contracts and the early end of the experimental period. It's all worth it! But, Prime Minister, labor rights are not all quarantined. It is therefore important to know what type of strengthening of supervision is planned to combat these abuses not only from companies but even from some institutions that also receive State support. Finally, I leave a concern about the situation of immigrant workers on the Alentejo coast, particularly those working in greenhouses and intensive olive trees, who have difficulties, on the one hand, with regard to language and, on the other hand, with regard to housing conditions, which are precarious and may lead to very complicated situations and therefore require specific and urgent responses. I would like to know, Prime Minister, what measures are planned at this level. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u97	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u98	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, first of all, with regard to the tests, as was explained this morning, the Directorate-General for Health, according to the criterion of stratification that is making the risk, is setting a standard for both testing and the acquisition of individual protective equipment, since they vary according to the specific activity, the profession of each and the subject to risk. As for missing equipment, let me recall what I read about the list of equipment we have now ordered and whose delivery we are waiting for: pairs of boots — 381 482 ; protective suits — 549 837 ; sterilized gloves — 6 813 259 ; non-sterilized gloves — 10 674 459 ; visceral masks — 368 397 ; surgical masks — 17 145 762 ; FFP2 and FFP3 masks — 8 665 775 ; footwear protectors — 743 575 ; toucs — 1 261 492. We have also planned to acquire 280 000 tests, 80 000 of which will be delivered by the next day 29, and 535 fans. Several entities have made donations, from the EDP Foundation to an investor from the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, which yesterday delivered 78 fans at the Portuguese Embassy in Beijing and are being brought to Portugal. Therefore, the acquisition of various equipment is under way. Finally, as far as price abuses are concerned, as I said, ASAE has been strengthened, with 16 teams on the street at the moment. With regard to workers' rights, there is no right which is suspended and therefore all must be properly guarded and respected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u99	You now have the floor, to ask questions, Mr Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u100	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, good afternoon. Mr. Prime Minister said yesterday, in an interview with TVI, that there was nothing essential in the National Health Service. Today, a source of the Directorate-General for Health said that there are no tests in the SNS, the President of the Independent Medical Union said that he was spraying the crime the equipment that was missing in the SNS and we knew that hospitals complain that the basics are missing and that, in particular, there are ambulances that are not even going out to respond to emergencies. I would like to ask you the following, very directly, Prime Minister: are you or are you not sorry about the statements you made yesterday in the TVI Night's Journal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u101	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u102	Mr President, Mr President, you were this morning at the same session where I was, where the full answer was given to this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u103	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u104	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a part of the country was not there, so he agreed to give that answer to the Portuguese. I'd like to ask you a question about the tests. Mr. Prime Minister was in the same session today as I was, where we heard what technicians understand about the tests. The truth is this: there are two countries, Iceland and South Korea, where the massification of tests resulted in a huge drop in the infection and spread of the virus. I know what you think and what you understand about the technicians, but my question is: can we or should we not trust the numbers that are disclosed by the Directorate-General of Health when we have a vast part of the population that is not being tested?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u106	Mr President, honourable Member, as you may have heard, the data that are disclosed are the data reported daily by each of the doctors who attends each of the patients. And, as Mr President of the Republic said at the end of the session we were all in, the numbers are reliable as to known cases, as to the tests carried out, as to the cases of patients who are hospitalized, as to the cases of patients who are in intensive care, as to the cases of patients who have died. Therefore, the last thing we need in the midst of this dramatic health crisis is to feed rumors and question what is the information of competent and unsuspecting technical entities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u107	Mr André Ventura has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, we do not want to feed rumors, we just want to ask the questions that the Portuguese are now at home. One last question, Mr. Prime Minister, has to do with the following: you have spoken, and well, about the inmates, who are most vulnerable at this time, but I would like you to give a word to our prison guards, who are threatened with processes if you use masks or protective equipment. at the borders, we see police on the other side, in Spain, with all equipment and on our side, in Portugal, without any equipment. I would therefore like to leave a word for those who defend us and who, every day, give their lives for us, guarantee our safety and feel highly rejected by the government. At least with regard to the prison guards, Mr Prime Minister, I would like you to explain to us what the situation is right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u109	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u110	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, we support all security forces and services as well as the prison guard. In summary, and because the time available to me is little, I recommend to you, Mr, that you read the message that Mr. Director-General of Prison Services addressed to the Prison Guard Corps a few days ago. I wake up in it entirely. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u111	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u112	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you haven't known about this epidemic for a long time. In fact, imagining the medium-term future is difficult and perhaps painful, but there are two priorities that are already evident today: containing the epidemic and saving the economy. And the two with the same priority and the same thing happen at the same time. And, frankly, Mr. Prime Minister, we do not feel enough focus and urgency on these two fronts. Otherwise, let us see: to contain the epidemic, to « hit the curve», as we now say, we have to guarantee, for example, working conditions for people who are in the front line of the battle, especially for health professionals. And what do we see? Every day—and this has been mentioned here by Members of the various benches—there are dozens of complaints because of lack of protective material: masks, zaragatoas, tests. The tests, in particular, are a matter for which there seems to be a huge confusion. last week, the government spoke in 9000 tests per day; the next day, there were 9000, but it was no longer a day, it was the stock, which dropped from 26 000 to 20,000 in two days, in which only 3,500 tests were done; last night, Mr. Prime Minister spoke of a stock of 30,000 tests. In view of this confusion of numbers, I would like to know exactly what this means. That is, one week after WHO strongly recommend testing, testing, testing, Portugal keeps just trying, trying, trying! This is not acceptable, we should already be expanding the PCR virus detection test program and preparing IgM and IgG tests for the detection of immune people, because only in this way can we contain the epidemic, because social isolation alone will not suffice. The other priority, to save the economy, is no better either. People need to see their insured income...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u113	Long live the state! ...We're all States! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u114	...and companies need to see their liquidity problems solved. And that is not done, Mr. Prime Minister, with loans or deferred taxes that no one knows when or whether you will be able to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u115	He's just a specialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u116	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u117	I shall conclude, Mr President. Above all, it is not done with complex and bureaucratic processes. in the real world, the epidemic cannot in fact laugh with bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u118	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is nothing like a good crisis to transform a good liberal into an interventionist! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is, in fact, a long tradition of the Portuguese liberals: as soon as the crisis arrives, here-d' he-I will come the state to save us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member has ceased to be the Member of the Liberal Initiative and has become the Member of the State initiative! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by IL, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] But as I am a social-democrat serene,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u120	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u121	... even in times of crisis, I will maintain-CL-I -I am faithful to my criterion of guidance, which is this: the state will do everything to respond to its essential function of ensuring solidarity and therefore respond to this solidarity through the National Health Service, public, universal and trendily free of charge. It is through the National Health Service, public, universal and trendly free, that we have been responding to this huge crisis that the Portuguese face and it is in the National Health Service that they have found response. You tell me about tests. The tests we have in stock are 10 000 in the public sector and 17 000 in the private sector. The tests we have ordered are 280 000, with an estimated delivery of 80 000 up to the next day 29. And as you're talking about the skyscrapers, I'm going to tell you that the number of shells it's ordered is 481,000. Therefore, we have been doing the acquisitions and they will be used in accordance with the technical standard of the Directorate-General of Health. With regard to the economy, what we have been doing is supporting businesses, so that they can survive, support employment, so that unemployment does not grow, and support family incomes, because liquidity in businesses and income in families is the most fundamental measures to sustain the economy right now. Then there will be a time, which will certainly horror you, when a great public investment programme will be needed to support the revival of the economy at European and world level — I hope! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u122	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, we have reached the end of this debate. In the meantime, I would ask Mr. Secretary of Bureau Nelson Peralta to report to the Bureau on various initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce a number of diplomas which have entered the Bureau and have been admitted. I refer, first, to Law No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, which falls to 6. the Commission. Bill No. 261 / XIV / 1 also entered. a ( ENP) — prohibits dismissal until 31 July 2020 and prevents termination of the contract during the experimental period, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 262 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the application of Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March, to private institutions of social solidarity, to associations of local authorities and to entities of the local business sector ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March ), which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission. The following draft resolutions were added: No 325 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — by promoting measures preventing the cutting of water supplies to families and by reducing the rates charged by the provision of this service, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 326 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure the replacement of natural conditions where the construction of a hotel on the beach of Memory took place in Matosinhos ; No 327 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends the creation of specific responses from the COVID-19, monitoring the elderly population, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission ; point 328 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — by introducing amendments to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, guaranteeing Portuguese lawyers and applicants the same exceptional support provided for other workers during the pandemic scenario, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 329 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN ) — Recommends to the Government the availability of a mobile application COVID-19 and a mobile application SNS24, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 330 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the full accessibility of deaf people to the National Health Service Contact Centre ( SNS24 ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 331 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Strengthen family support measures for self-employed persons, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 332 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Agitates the allocation of extraordinary support to reduce the economic activity of the self-employed, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 333 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — by strengthening the protection of users to COVID-19 in the homes of elderly people, which goes down to 10. the Commission ; point 334 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN ) — Alter the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 10 - D / 2020, which declares the disaster situation in the municipality of Ovar, accruing as an exceptional measure in the geographical area of the municipality of Ovar the possibility of assistance and feeding animals, which falls to 1. the Commission ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u124	I shouldn't have been admitted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u125	... No. 335 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake the lifting of the needs and the consequent adoption of urgent response mechanisms for persons in situations of homeless and / or street in the context of COVID-19, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 336 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — by setting up support mechanisms for the production of agricultural crops, which fall to 7. the Commission ; and No 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — by establishing measures to protect lawyers and applicants in the disease and parenthood resulting from the COVID-19, which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-24.u126	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary session is scheduled for April 1, Wednesday, having as its agenda the opinion of the Bill No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime of expiry and of the opposition to the renewal of housing and non-residential leases, taking into account the pandemic of the disease COVID-19. in the end, we shall proceed to vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish for a rest of the afternoon, good work and, above all, health for all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
