ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] of the first item on the agenda is the general joint discussion of the Bill No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic and the Law Projects Nos 575 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers under the New Urban Rent Scheme affected in their activity by COVID-19, 576 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Interpretation rules clarifying the application and retroactivity to the period of confinement of the suspension of the application of fixed incomes, 596 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( seventh amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ), 599 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs for 2021 the exceptional arrangements applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of real estate for trade and services in commercial centres, 600 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional income payment scheme, 601 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants, 602 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarifies the exceptional arrangements applicable to contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres for the purpose of adopting an interpretative standard in respect of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March and 603 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of lease contracts for commercial purposes during the recovery period of the economy in the case of considerable turnover losses ( third amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection, João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today has the opportunity to present to the Assembly a bill which essentially brings two dimensions. Firstly, it refers to commercial establishments and all non-residential leases with a view to extending protection which is currently in force and which has, of course, been in force since a very early period of the pandemic, with the primary objective of suspending the production of certain effects associated with contracts, in particular as regards their termination. This means that if the proposal deserves the approval of the Assembly of the Republic, if a lease contract ends in January or February 2021, the tenant may — in this case, the entrepreneur — continue his activity, provided he pays his rent until 30 June of next year. This proposal also has a second dimension which seems to me to be very important and which is related to the establishments which have been closed since March, which, since then, are expected to continue to be closed for a period of still potentially significant time of 2021. For these there is, in my view, the need to revisit the solutions that were found with regard to the moratoriums that were created during 2020. At the same time, we suggest to the Assembly of the Republic that the lease contract be extended for the period equivalent to that of the closure and never for less than six months after the reopening of these same establishments, which are basically bars, discos and children's parks. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I would also like to convey to you that this bill goes online and needs to be seen in the context of other support measures which the Government has already had the opportunity to announce publicly. Therefore, the APOIAR Programme, the bottom-up incentive for the payment of income of EUR 300 million, and even other measures that have been taken during the year 2020 and which are still in force, should be seen in conjunction with this bill, which from our point of view reinforces and prolongs an economic shield that seems to be very relevant to us for a large set of economic activities, not only during 2020, but with the eventual approval of the Assembly of the Republic, extending to the year 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u3	To present the bills of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block and to participate in the debate, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The already felt housing crisis has been aggravated by this pandemic. But if we ask people to live a more domestic life and have a series of care in contact with the outside, only with the guarantee of a decent housing will they have the right to do so. Can we even imagine living in a house with infiltrations or without water or light? Or paying such high values that we fear every day not having where to sleep? This is the reality lived, and not imagined, of a wide range of people in our country. And this is also our fault. Housing and our cities should never have been given to the market. The right to live properly is not given to markets. That is why, on a proposal from the Left Block in September, we approved the extension of several deadlines for lease contracts until 31 December 2020. This wouldn't have been our initial option. But in fact, the Socialist Party was not available at the time for what is now apparent to be clear and urgent: the uncertainty of the pandemic we must respond with certainty to social protection. We greet the Government for having found it in time. If Portugal is the country of Europe where there has been a greater loss of wages in the most fragile sectors, it has also been the country with less support mobilization. We are increasingly feeling the effects of an economic crisis, and only now does the government see that the pandemic is not easily controlled. Minister Siza Vieira said in this Parliament at our last plenary session that the decisions we take may have an adverse impact that we do not calculate, but do not decide and do not interfere also have impacts that the government has not calculated. The Government has thus decided not to support the commercial incomes of the numerous shops in our country which are highly dependent on tourism. It controlled, well, its schedules, but did not create any rule that reduced real estate speculation and allowed to lower the value of income in that same period. At the same time that the country stopped, that people were unemployed, that tourists did not come or that people did not spend, real estate speculation continued to bill. In trade or housing, the vissgolds are as before and the real estate funds have wanted to maintain their income, their voracity. Companies and workers who create wealth in Portugal were left to these entities. And we ask: is this the fragile and unequal economy we want? What do we learn from the obvious vulnerability now? Because they cannot continue to win as if they were nothing, in a country with a brutal economic contraction. This is what we propose: whether in street trade or in shopping centres, if there is no use of the rented place, it is clear that the level of income cannot be maintained. In addition, we cannot leave trade in the hands of speculative entities with blackmail power. Extending the contract period to the same extent as the time limit for the reduction of economic activity is not only fair, Mr and Mrs. Members, it is essential for these companies to be able to resume their activity without the guillotine of clearing on their necks during the recovery period. Saving businesses and traders from the waste, giving them time and space to have the minimum of negotiating capacity is also saving the economy. Finally, and because the conflict and threat have been a constant one in these lease processes, we see today also called to clarify a rule that this House has approved, making it clear that this applies since the beginning of the first state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing we're discussing here today is new to us. The need for State intervention is more than ever evident, from right to left. Now, what we would not understand was that we wasted this moment, now that it is in our hands to guarantee justice and protection to those who live and work in Portugal. The Left Block thus presents these proposals, which are the opposite of crossing the arms. Our responsibility is to act now. Not intervening would be not to protect and, for this irresponsibility, of course they cannot count on the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u5	Mr Bruno Dias also spoke in order to present the respective bills and to participate in the debate on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: Emergency measures in response to the pandemic crisis and its consequences in the area of housing and renting, in particular, are not just an emergency now, they have been an emergency since March. In fact, this is true of the dramatic situations that have taken place in the dwelling, but also for the dramatic situations of thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized businesses of trade, services, restoration, which, for months, have been confronted with situations of greater gravity from the point of view of economic activity and which, in the same situation, had the obligation to fulfil their commitments from the point of view of lease and their payments. Since the beginning of this crisis, we have called attention and warned about the urgent need for a quick and effective response to safeguard the situation of these families, of these companies, of these workers, a response that would not be reduced to the possibility of deferring payments, accumulating debt, letting the problems roll out later. It was necessary to directly support the payment of income, to reduce them in the fair proportion of income lost in this exceptionally serious situation. Of course, compensation for gentlemen has always been a matter in the CFP proposals since the beginning, a fair and adequate compensation that does not subsidize speculative incomes, but that does not leave the landlords without any compensation. This issue has always been part of the CFP proposals and has always been ignored by those who plunged them over the months. In April, we warned the government, saying that certainly the worst was not overcome. It was necessary to act and quickly. As time went on, problems became more serious. What is happening today is the demonstration that these answers come late and could have been taken at the right time. at this time, the Government's proposal is essentially confined to non-residential income and support for this payment, placing on the table the question of extension of the deadline until the end of the first half of 2021 as regards the measures to protect tenants in the circumstances that are currently in force, which we support and that are in force because the CFP also took measures and presented proposals to that end. The basic question we are asking is not only to clarify the situation of what is in place in relation to shopping centres, clarify the situation with regard to debts overdue and not paid since the beginning of the pandemic crisis and the state of emergency, possibly to be paid in 2021, but also that of the need for a concrete response, which does not only mean the accumulation of debt, for both non-residential income and housing income. Finally, we also leave a very important point of view with regard to this precautionary measure for the protection and protection of families, small businesses, of tenants who are currently facing the imminent conclusion of the contract, following your decision to revoke it or not give it continuity. That is the situation, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members should not be safeguarded until the end of the first semester, but should be assured during the year 2021. That is the proposal of the CFP, and that must be the meaning of the debate and decision of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u7	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group now has the floor to present the draft law and participate in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis and its social and economic impacts have added even more to the agenda of the political debate the need for policies for the rental and protection of housing and non-residential tenants. Several times the NAP has alerted the need for deadlines to not be too closed to ensure some predictability and stability. This was not the way chosen by the government and, therefore, today we are again discussing the extension of exceptional measures in the context of the lease. in this matter, the NAP has always stated that the key is in the balance of the interests of the two parts of the contractual relationship, protecting, obviously, the most fragile side, be he on whose side it is. One should not opt for a way of excess, which would cost too many of the parties, or which had sinned by default in relation to the other side. That is the vision we have always put in the proposals we have tabled so far. The proposed law that the Government generally carries out these assumptions to us, by extending until the end of the first half of next year the period of suspension of the effects of termination of lease contracts, subject to the condition of tenants having their income in the day. It also seems to us that the scheme for establishments which have been closed in March is positive and that, on 1 January, they are still closed, as well as the forecast of the allocation of support to non-residents. It's never too much to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who was the first party to propose the creation of support for non-residential landlords in April under the Proposal for a Law No 21 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ). After all these months, there is finally the Government's accession to this more than just solution, which we have been defending since April. Better now than ever. But we could not fail to present ourselves to this debate without a proposal concerning non-residential rent, which arises with a very simple and very clear objective and which fulfils the will of the Assembly of the Republic expressed at the heart of Supplementary Budget. We do so simply because, in the Supplementary Budget, it has been decided that the incomes due in commercial operating contracts in commercial sets are calculated on the basis of the turnover generated and guaranteed the duty of the shopkeepers to pay the common costs since the beginning of the health crisis. However, in practice, what was found was that some non-residential landlords did an abusive interpretation of this law, which stated that the approved protection measure only applied from the date of the entry into force of Law No 27 -A / 2020, completely distorting the intent of the legislator and jeopardizing the rights and guarantees of non-resident tenants. These abuses have had very concrete effects on the lives of tenants, exacerbating their difficulties, since these landlords, who thus interpreted it, have not only demanded the payment of all incomes from March to July, as they still demanded the waiver of the application of the law, under the penalty of having all and any reductions occurred between March and July. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to prevent these abuses, to support non-residential tenants and to ensure that the will of this Assembly of the Republic is fully met, the NAP brings this proposal. This clarification is fundamental for many traders and shopkeepers, so we expect the proper follow-up of other parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u9	I have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The passion for the role of the left parties that leads them to move in the lease at any cost, either in time of pandemic, or without being in time of pandemic, is such that true confusion is installed. The eight bills that were presented in the last few days, mostly from the Left Block and PCP, reflect that. The gentlemen. Members are so in a hurry that one day they present one proposal; the next day they have one more idea and they have another one; the next day they see that the neighbor on the side presented a bill and they come to present one too. And that's it. They even lose what they write! They propose solutions that already exist and others that forget recently adopted measures within the State budget. Mrs. Members, we know that hundreds of proposals have been made in the State budget. We had thousands of pages of voting scripts to approve. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you should be more careful, knowing what has been voted on, what has been approved, and stop, to think and stop creating so much confusion for the Portuguese. It makes sense, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, may a lease contract be extended for more months for a late tenant, being the house completely unemployed? Does it make sense to extend the delivery of this property? But who understands this solution? Only if it's cujus, up there in the sky, because here on earth, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, no one understands this solution. The same can be said of the tenants to whom the gentlemen have already warned about the relocation. The gentlemen. Do Members know the legal regime of the works in leased buildings, the RJOPA? Do you know that the complaints of contracts in this legal regime depend on two conditions: either compensation or relocation? And do you know that there are many gentlemen who have already guarded the relocation and these tenants don't deliver the goods when they could already be in much better homes? We're prolonging this in time why, for what and for whom? Oh, my God! It's confusing people, confusing renters, confusing landlords. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this respect, are not just the Left Block and the PCP which are mostly confused. in this respect, also the Government, Mrs. State Secretaries, he has been king, not only to confuse, but also to delude and miss the truth. From March to now, the government has been without any concrete and clear support for commercial tenants. PSD has alerted several times. We tried to introduce support mechanisms and one of them was even achieved in the field of specialty: a line of credit at reduced costs for the landlords whose tenants stopped paying the rents. It was a balanced solution achieved by the PSD proposal, in the field of expertise. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened to this line of credit? Nothing happened, because it doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u11	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u12	The government had to legislate. It's in the law, but it doesn't comply, it doesn't legislate. Why? Oh, my God! It's just an ad. This isn't serious, ladies. State Secretaries. I repeat, this is not serious! [[PSD applause.]] It is not serious that we have finally announced measures to support incomes, which are largely to be applauded, and we will see that they have not been included in the proposal for a law submitted by the Government to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u14	If it is to be announced and not to be realized, as the port would have been due to have left in August, then it is not worth it. We're kidding people! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u15	We're playing with the Portuguese and we're not gonna admit it. If it's up to you, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, who are already placed in the law. It doesn't depend on anything. The measure is announced, the criteria are defined, are clear. Why aren't you in the bill? If it's serious, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is written. Whoever wants to do it, sign it. Whoever wants to do it, write it down. It is expressly and clearly required.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u17	The government is not doing that. It's not just coming to the TV to make some blossoms. We need to write what we want to do, and that is what we intend to do. The PSD is as it has always been in this process, with responsibility, with measures and available for, despite this confusion that is installed, we continue to present solutions that are balanced, that serve people and that leave no one behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u18	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed a set of proposals around the lease, whether housing or non-residential. On housing lease, it is important to remember that our Constitution includes the right to housing on the list of fundamental rights. This element cannot be forgotten in this debate, especially when, in accordance with the text of the country's fundamental law, it is expressly stated that in order to ensure the right to housing, it is up to the State "to adopt a policy aimed at establishing a system of income compatible with family income". If this is a responsibility of the State in normal circumstances, more relevance takes place in periods such as the one we live today. In fact, the pandemic is giving effect to all levels and dimensions of our lives. Without surprise, it has caused a set of problems to thousands and thousands of families, also in terms of housing. The truth is that a very large universe of people was left out of work and so many others saw their income substantially reduced, especially those people who, contrary to their will, but because of the demands of the public interest, remained in layoff and, therefore, with sharp losses of their incomes. in this circumstance, thousands and thousands of families have been objectively unable to respond to the commitments they have made, also at housing level, because the thin family budget does not allow them to cope with all the expenses to maintain the essential. The same is happening to the generality of micro and small entrepreneurs who, with the level of orders or sales falling from day to day, are unable to pay the income of the respective establishment or of the facilities where they produce their work. This is not to mention the forced stops of their activity, or even the reduction of hours, to which they have been subjected or are being forced to do by determination of the authorities, with a view to combating the pandemic. Whether at the level of housing rental, whether at the level of non-residential rental, these problems require fair and sustainable responses. If we want sustainable answers, we will have to look for them, not by means of solutions that mortgage the future of these families and those small entrepreneurs, because this would represent an accumulation of debts, many of them objectively unfeasible in the future, but rather by solutions that go through the proportional reduction of the value of income in relation to their income loss, being the landlord eventually compensated at the value concerned by the State, with very clear rules to prevent the State from paying or helping to pay speculative income. Finally, I would like to point out that the extraordinary scheme for the protection of landowners, which has been established under the pandemic, which is in force until the end of this month and that the Government proposes to extend only the first six months of the next year, should, for all the reasons which are known, continue to apply throughout the year of 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u21	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a proposal from the Government that seeks to continue the responses to the pandemic crisis and its effects on housing and non-inhabitation. What the Government has proposed, to a large extent, is basically to extend the suspension period of the effects of termination of lease contracts, thus giving continuity to the policy of response to the last 10 months of pandemic. But the government comes late and bad hours. It's only now, in December, that the bottom-up support has appeared, precisely for the payment of rents.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u23	We proposed and you plummeted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u24	By taking that off, what does the government announce? More credit lines, more debt, whether for families or for businesses. However, there is an elucidative number, which is that of the loans that were granted in support of the lease: 713 loans. The questions we must ask are these: is there a problem, or is there no problem, with regard to housing? Oh, my God! Is there a problem, or is there not a problem, at the level of rent and the capacity that families have, or do not have, to honour their commitments, in particular with their masters? Oh, my God! As it is evident, there is! That indicates, Mrs. Government members, that these 713 loans do not mean the success of a policy, but they mean that something in the answer cannot certainly be working. We are aware of the following: the world has stopped with this pandemic. Many Portuguese have been forced to stop. But it is true that their commitments and obligations have not stopped. These were accumulated, month after month, and surely next year, in the year 2021, the invoice will come, whether for the families or for the companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been ten months. in these 10 months, much has been required of the landlords and it is time for the state to give the concrete answers. The gentlemen have already played their part, they have already made their contribution. It is time for the state to pay and bear the social bill. We must not forget the following: there are many families that depend on the income that comes from their heritage, on their incomes. They are not such speculators that the left often speaks. We are often talking about families or family aggregates that have one or two...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u25	Buildings!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u26	They're not buildings, sir, they're floors! That is where your income comes from and this is the one that allows you to pay your bills at the end of the month. So there is an effort on the part of the gentlemen here, reaching a limit. I understand that the honourable Member agrees, and that is also good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u27	I didn't read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u28	With the masks, sometimes it can't be understood, but still good that there's an evolution in the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u29	There's nothing! You don't read the projects?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u30	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u31	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u32	Mr President, just to conclude, I wanted to say the following: the State requires others what it does not practice for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. I will give an example related to the regularization of debts or payment of overdue income between 2020 and 2021. in this case, the State foresees that by the end of 2023, this debt can be settled in benefits. But, when this is your case, it no longer allows that extended period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u35	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u36	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. So, in your case, the State does not, but what does it tell the gentlemen? It says: “Depart! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is certainly not a good way out.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u37	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today, in this plenary, an important issue for thousands of citizens, for thousands of businesses, because we are debating another tool to deal with this difficult situation. In recent times, we have had good news about this aspect. The existence of a vaccine that will arrive earlier and more generally than we would have imagined in the past is clearly a light at the bottom of the tunnel that cannot be forgotten when we make these kind of debates. But before we start this debate, it is also important to pull back the tape of time and realize, as far as housing policies are concerned, who represented those in the past, because this also helps us to do the debate that we are now conducting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u39	It's good to remember too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u41	Shortly before the pandemic, when we discussed a greater tax regulation of local housing, particularly in areas where this activity grew and caused more housing shortages, we well know who was next to the entrepreneurs and who was here to protect those who needed housing. We, the Socialist Party, know what we did. We respected the private initiative, but with the imposition of rules that brought greater balance to a relationship that was unbalanced. We all defended it, but first of all we defended who needed it most. This was our positioning, but we know that this was not the positioning of the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative or the Arrival. We also know that, at a difficult time of economic crisis, there were parties, in a coalition in the government, which have applied the greatest attack on income stability and the promotion of evictions. These are also sitting here on our right in the plenary. [[All right! Law of reindeer!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u42	But, Mrs Márcia Passos, I also find it difficult to say that the left is confusing housing policies. I have to tell you the following: PSD does not confuse, PSD does even what it believes and always disrespects the weakest part in lease contracts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is important to talk about the past, it is very important that we discuss the future and these proposals. In the fight against the pandemic and the defense of the lives of Portuguese, we have seen in recent months some companies being forced to close temporarily and open in the following month, others to resume their activity conditionally, others to reopen only in June and others which unfortunately in current circumstances have not yet been able to open in full. We therefore consider that the document brought about by the government is a happy proposal, because it is correct in the diagnosis and correct in the action. First of all, because it responds to different requirements, specific to the dynamics different from different sectors of activity, protecting those who cannot yet reopen their activity, not paying them with the payment of incomes due since March 2020, which will only phase up again in January 2022. Secondly, this diploma protects the non-continuation of contracts by June 2021, i.e. we have the assurance that no one in this period is without the possibility of fighting for his business and continuing his activity. Thirdly, and perhaps the most relevant aspect, this diploma must be read in conjunction with other programmes and other government measures, in particular the APOIAR Programme, in which there are specific lines of support for the payment of overdue income of EUR 400 million, of which EUR 300 million, of which 400, is ultimately lost, by the State itself. Here, there is also a political option. We do not wager in demands of forgiveness of income that are desirable to those who pay, but perhaps also unjust to those who receive. We do not demarcate the State of direct involvement in this process and therefore promote tripartite effort mechanisms among the landlords, tenants and the Portuguese State itself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that we represent all Portuguese, it is also true that we also have an obligation to defend, firstly, who needs us most.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u44	With these measures, we are giving justice to those who want to continue their business, we are giving time and stability so that these people can overcome this difficult moment, with support from the state, mostly to the bottom lost, and with respect for the contractual relations that have been established. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u45	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals that bring us today on incomes go from absurd to unqualified, in some cases. We have proposals that want to extend over time contracts that neither the parties want to prolong, and that is a kind of aberration for which one day we will look at the point where they are going.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u47	That's not true! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u48	But even the NAP project, which protects and cautions interests at stake, does not properly address the problem of retroactivity that will be placed in the Constitutional Court, with all certainty. Just as it does not clarify what you want to clarify, because it says that it will clarify the scope of extension, but then says: « outlets, retail parks, among others». How do we clarify, saying 'among others'? We will have exactly the same problem with this expression in the relation of trade regulation. But it is in the government that we should focus our concerns, because, a week ago, the Secretary of State said in this House that we would have such lines thoroughly lost and that they would soon be enshrined, but in this proposal for a law, no lines are enshrined at all. What is and what is in your proposal is more indebtedness and more credit, which will lead families, again, to be indebted, to a strategy we all know about tax matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u49	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. They are going to borrow, to pay taxes, saying, "They divide themselves more and then they can't afford it" — these are the solutions they present to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u51	You have the floor by the PCP parliamentary group Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, the PSD is confused with what is simple.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u53	Well?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u54	The PSD is confused with the presentation of proposals that aim to translate and target solutions to people's problems, in which each party contributes to its proposal, working constructively, open and committed to achieving the best common solution, in the final text of the law. For us, this is an expression of democracy, for the PSD, is a mess. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u55	It is particularly evident and shocking to see the contempt with which the right observes the situation of tenants, populations, families facing difficulties, which is, in fact, taxary and heir to the attitude that led to the approval of the famous "law of evictions" in the PSD Government / CDS-PP. It is the continuation of the same policy! [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u56	In fact, there are those who see who were already in the Social Democratic Party at that time and are now out; there are those who even, as parties who agreed, are those who are, after all, only one of the parties. They only have eyes on one side and they don't have eyes on the other! [[Mr José Luís Ferreira's laughs.]] Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, it is better to read the projects before you discuss them. The CFP, from the outset, before the summer, at the beginning of this pandemic crisis, came to propose that this aspect be legislated in order to reduce the weight of the payment of income, i.e. to reduce the income by just compensating the landlords.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. This was the proposal of the CFP and it continues to be. Mr President, when you vote on the PCP bill you will be voting on that proposal that you said we didn't.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u59	Us? Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u60	We really need to read the proposals! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u61	In North Korea is that housing is good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u62	Mr Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u63	Mr. President, Mrs. Márcia Passos, has read our projects as well as the PSD's own Economic Recovery Programme. This PSD programme raised the need to suspend contract deadlines for one year. I do not know if you have read it, but the truth is that if you voted in line with what you are proposing, I would have voted in favour of this proposal by September, and I would vote again, now, in favour of it. Mr Hugo Carvalho, justice and balance are, in fact, necessary, but I would like to ask you that justice and balance can be guaranteed with the cut of real estate funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u64	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u65	... that are located in the Cayman Islands which is currently on the shopkeepers of the shopping malls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u66	Over time, we left behind Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo's intervention. So, Mr President, you have the right to intervene now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u67	Mr President, thank you very much for not leaving me behind. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today, we have again, in several proposals, the question of the retroactivity of the variable law in non-residential leases, despite its recent lead in the Budget. from here, we can only conclude that this insistence is a reaffirmation of the hatred that the extreme left has for everything that is private. In fact, it should be remembered that private individuals deserve constitutional protection. This retroactivity proposed by the extreme left would not only aggravate an already disproportionate measure, but it is clearly unconstitutional. We're not the only ones who say it. Three weeks ago, the Ombudsman asked the Constitutional Court to declare the unconstitutionality of the rule underlying this proposal, for violation of the right to private property and freedom of private economic initiative. According to the Provider, the standard does not meet the requirements arising from the principles of proportionality and equality, until there are legal discriminations between street shopkeepers, shopping centres and even between different types of shopkeepers of shopping centres. It is therefore very ironic that there are parties which always walk with the Constitution in their mouths, but which, by the way, are left only by the preamble, in that part of the « path to socialism». When reality comes they cover their eyes and repeat unconstitutional proposals, plummeted over and over again. In conclusion, as Members, we must maintain the balance that all parties respect and also ensure contractual and legal stability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u68	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u69	That is why, of course, we will vote against the proposals that contradict this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u70	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u71	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u72	Mr President, I just wanted to make an appeal to the Bureau. I wanted you to be clear that the lapses occur in a perfectly natural way and that no one should be incriminated because of this. In the conduct of the work, there may be a small lapse, but I just wanted to say that I would like to respond to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo's speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u73	Mr, the responsibility lies with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u74	Yes, Mr. President. These questions should not be answered, but because the lapses happen, we will be here to do so at another time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. At the time, I explained that there was a lapse when I said the word. Mr. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a law which we bring to Parliament today on housing lease is based on an extension and strengthening of instruments to support the right to housing. The right to housing is a constitutionally enshrined right and, therefore, in this balance of constitutional rights we are safeguarding, I would say that it has an extreme priority, especially at a time of pandemic such as what we live. As we bring about the suspension of some of the effects of lease contracts, it takes account, above all, of the state and evolution of the pandemic in recent months. Therefore, since April, we have not taken an extension for long periods, precisely in order to be able to make such an assessment either in the Government or in Parliament. This is what we have done and, ultimately, what matters is that, indeed, we have warned the importance of the right to housing according to the state in which we are in the pandemic. I would like to make a note on the issue of income and support provided by the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e Rehabilitation Urbana). This proposal is not included in the proposed law, because it follows a rule adopted here under the Budget and will be transposed into law decrees in the coming weeks, and aims to extend support and allocate, in the long run, part of this loan to families with more housing shortages and, above all, to higher rates of effort. We are taking into account, above all, the importance of cautioning that families who, having no income, do not have to be paid with a subsidy that the State should heed. It is in this sense that a decree will be presented, as well as the extension of the regime. Mr. CDS-PP, for me, it is always amazing to see that you are concerned about the extension of our income regime, when, in a period of crisis, which has not been so long, so our memory is quite fresh, the solution that the CDS and the PSD, be fair because it was a shared solution between the two parties, presented was to approve a income law. It was a law that came to liberalize the market, came to clear many people and, instead of supporting the right to housing, put people out of the house, out of a constitutionally consecrated right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u77	That's bullshit! It's conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u78	What we are doing with our measures, Mr Deputies, since April, since the beginning of the pandemic, is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u79	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u80	... precisely to safeguard the right to housing, without prejudice to the work we are doing, and for which we are responsible, to find long-term responses on the right to housing. This is because, indeed, we have identified a problem, for which we have created instruments and in which we are working, without prejudice to the response currently being implemented, to safeguard, at the time of pandemic, the income of families, with responses framed in these incomes and, above all, in the defense of an intransigent, essential and fundamental right as is the right to housing for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u81	You have the floor to close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to convey to you something that I have asked you to mention in my first speech, but I think it would be important to strengthen. This proposal for a law which the Government is discussing in the Assembly of the Republic is one of three elements which were announced last week on the subject of non-residential rent. We have this bill, we have a EUR 100 million credit line for owners and tenants and we have a subsidy, or a subsidy programme, which is substantially lost, in the amount of EUR 300 million, to dynamize in the first half of the year 2021 and with payments in two instalments, which will take place during that period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u83	Where's the program?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u84	I would therefore like, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Members who reminded me of my last speech in the Assembly of the Republic. The same intervention can be transcribed and goes to meet exactly what the government had the opportunity to announce last week:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u85	But where is he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u86	... that we would have substantially lost subsidies and that we would be available to present a bill to the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u87	He's lost on the way!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u88	... in order to strengthen the protection of commercial establishments — in view of the lease — what we do with particular care for establishments closed since March 2020. I also want to say that we do not have only EUR 300 million in full for non-residential rent, we already have more than EUR 750 million under the APOIAR.PT programme. As we are currently preparing the regulation of income support, we have an ambition that this programme can be operated as rapidly as the APOIR.PT Programme, which has already transferred millions of euros, tens of millions of euros, to companies that are experiencing serious difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u89	I ask you to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u90	I would therefore like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, on this subject, as we have accomplished above all others, have found balanced solutions to protect the different interests in question and we will continue to work very hard to support the most affected sectors of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u91	We have thus reached the end of this first point. We will enter the second item on our agenda, with the appreciation of Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October, which fits the instruments created under the New Housing Policy Generation and the Organic Law of IHRU, I.P. the Housing Basics Act under the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme [ Parliamentary Assessment No 33 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). To open the debate, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members: As Mr President has just mentioned, Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October 2020 is now being adapted to various relevant legal diplomas in housing policy, since the Organic Law of IHRU, I.P. to the legal framework of programmes 1. the right or port of entry, among other diplomas, to make this legislation correspond to the framework resulting from the approval of the Housing Basic Law in this Assembly of the Republic. The CFP considers this adequacy important and considers that the approval of Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October is a positive step towards the regulation of the law which was approved by the Assembly. And the CFP has made a positive effort to contribute to making this law the best possible. We have a law that must now be translated into concrete from the point of view of this regulation. However, this Decree-Law No 81/2020 and the amendments which it has introduced raise, from our point of view, two questions: one which justifies the correctness of some of the matters reflected in the amendment itself which the decree-law brought; and another — which we are not going to address here, knowing the material limits of the parliamentary decision process — which has to do with what is still to be dealt with, from the point of view of these diplomas which are amended. Therefore, there is work to be done and we will certainly have to go back to this subject, ahead, not in the midst of parliamentary appreciation, but in the direction of the enrichment, development and deepening of these operations and options. The CFP has already put forward concrete proposals for the improvement and improvement of the text of the relevant decree in relation to the amendments it has introduced. We do so, from the outset, with regard to Decree-Law No 175 / 2012 which approves the IHRU, Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P., to ensure, firstly, that IHRU may, eventually, participate in real estate companies and investment funds, but of public capital or within the framework of the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of Building, delimiting in a clearer way the scope of IHRU's intervention, with the question of public capital, not allowing IHRU to enter other areas of the financial sector, which have shown in many cases problems we know well. On the other hand, in Decree-Law No 37 / 2018, which fits the so-called program 1. the law, we also safeguard Article 62 ( 5 ). the, with regard to the intervention of entities that may be involved in the proceedings, the scope in which they should be involved, in the lack of local housing strategy — approved or from which they do not consist — so that it is from the point of view of the process that municipalities should have, and not alternatively or in place of priority involvement. Therefore, these entities should not be replaced, they should be present in a complementary, more comprehensive, integrated and participatory manner. On the other hand, we also put here the involvement in the procedure and the issue of an opinion of the National Housing Council on the question of the 20-year deadline for the decommissioning capacity of the dwellings whose acquisition, rehabilitation or construction has been financed with participations granted in this area. This so-called New Housing Policy Generation established in 2018 the main quantitative targets to be achieved in the medium term. With the basic law, it is up to the National Housing Programme to establish the objectives, priorities, programmes and measures of national housing policy, and this programme is proposed by the Government. The question is that, in Decree-Law No 81/2020 itself — and that is why we say that we will have to return to this subject — it is important to ensure that, in the legislation now amended, we can go further, in order to guarantee and safeguard the capacity to respond, by adapting the necessary for intervention to the level of implementation and to carry out this instrument of planning so important that it is the National Habitat Programme. Therefore, we believe that these measures should not be for mere procedural changes, and that is why this intervention has to go further. For the time being, from the point of view of the amendment in Parliament, the concrete proposals of the CFP are a contribution to improving the text of the decree. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u93	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u94	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First of all, I wanted to thank the CFP for the opportunity to come here to discuss and discuss the amendments contained in Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October which effectively aimed to frame the instruments already under way in public housing policy, with the Housing Bases Act and its main principles and objectives. The decree-law does not alter the answers that were under way, before it comes to strengthen them and adapt them. Fortunately, there is no constant change in paradigm here, but there is a reinforcement and speed and simplification of the answers we give, in the various aspects, in particular through 1. the law, and also through programmes based more on urgent needs and affordable lease. I would also like to point out that this diploma — taking advantage of which we are talking about it — provides for an increase in the role of the State in the financing of housing solutions under 1. o Law. It is also important to highlight, in this perspective of articulation with municipalities, to facilitate and accelerate investment in housing, that there are some increases provided for in this diploma precisely to reinforce intervention, as well as by strengthening intervention and response, ensuring that all housing needs of all inundated housing are identified, in a more active role of organizations, of the third sector, not as an alternative, but in addition to the response that exists and precisely to safeguard that all situations are identified. I should also like to point out that this diploma also amends the IHRU's organic — for which an amendment has also been made — but it does change in order to adapt to the new competences given by the basic law — it will still be the object of the door — to reinforce the role of IHRU in complementing, of course, with the strengthening of human resources, which is essential to ensure the proper implementation of the instruments currently under way in the field of housing. With regard to the National Stock Exchange of Urgent and Temporary Housing, I would also like to point out that the wording provided for in the Decree-Law does not imply that the response should not be given and that it does not form part of this link with the State entities, at the level of the central administration and local administration, particularly with the municipalities ; this does not imply the involvement of these entities. In fact, this scholarship will have a legislative realization, it will be based on a decree-law that we will have the opportunity to present at the beginning of the year, and it will precisely focus on this answer. This wording provides that, regardless of whether the identification is made in the local housing strategy—the objective is obviously that everything is based on the identification made in the local housing strategy—is indeed given the answer and that this is safeguarded. This identification is without prejudice to the fact that the first response, even if it is within the scope of the grant, is the municipalities, the IHRU and the entities involved, in particular depending on each vulnerable group that the grant will include. I have already had the opportunity here to see both the PCP proposals and those of the Left Block, in relation to the decree-law, and we are available to evaluate them. There are some issues here — such as the one we were talking about — that are of drafting clarification, to safeguard that what is in question there is indeed the implementation of the concrete measures and the solution for families. So, for my part, I take this commitment to evaluate the proposals so that we can, of course, improve the drafting, within the principles and bases on which the diplomas are defined, as far as possible, to safeguard the right to housing which, in essence, is the ultimate objective that we all have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u95	Mr Inês Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to stability in access to housing and the right to a decent housing to live is undoubtedly an absolutely fundamental right of our legal order, but which has to move from role to public policy, in a more rapid and effective way. in this respect, we greet the PCP for bringing the assessment, to the Assembly of the Republic, this decree law, because, despite having addressed, throughout the year, these housing materials, the special and complex moment we live, of the COVID-19, came to sharpen the problems in access to housing. If, above all in urban areas, there was a very significant pressure due to tourism today, the COVID-19 increased unemployment and loss of income, which will therefore lead to greater difficulty in access to housing. In view of this, looking at the diploma now under consideration, there are, in fact, some matters that are still outside and for which we have already warned. I refer, for example, to the IHRU, which persists in non-compliance with housing needs for migrant communities in Portugal. For example, the case of agricultural workers in the south-west of the country, who have been alerted several times to this problem, but who continue to be housed in containers, or the numerous cases of refugees staying in unconditioned hostels, as widely reported by the media. On the other hand, the problems of young people and their access to housing persist and even worsen. The Portuguese youth choose access to housing as a priority, a concern which the NAP naturally accompanies, and urgent measures must be taken to ensure that the right to housing is enshrined in the NAP. the right ( Access to Housing Support Programme), taking into account the high price of housing, the precarious working conditions that we continue to give to young people and the parks support that we have also given them in the housing area. The environmental sustainability of the building also leads to a huge problem of energy poverty, which must be effectively combated, which also, in some way, does not find scope in what could be the vision for this reality. Another area of social fragility, which we cannot help but point out, is that of people in situations of homeless or victims of violence, whether domestic violence or forced marriage, among many others. Despite the path that has been taken in Portugal, and this must be done, we well know, together with the local authorities, there must be a more effective effort by the government. Especially when we have so much real estate that belongs to the State, does not make any sense that there is no greater bet on the conversion of these fires, an identification of the heritage that is scattered through our cities, so that it can be achieved structurally, to combat this reality. Through the State budgets, both 2020 and 2021, progress has been made in these areas, in particular with the forecast of the Housing First projects. But, Madam Secretary of State, we want to take advantage of your presence to also realize when this will be a reality in our country and when, structurally, we will be able to respond to these problems. We will, of course, follow these initiatives, but there remains a warning about the way in which we still have to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u97	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP brings the debate, with this parliamentary assessment, a concern about housing, a concern that we are accompanying, and therefore we welcome the CFP for allowing us to make this assessment here. This debate has to do with the very capacity that IHRU has or does not have, with the competences it has and with the resources it has available to respond to the needs that exist — and there are many — in the country. In this respect, however, the CDS has the greatest reservations. When we talked about housing policies—and, recently, the Secretary of State spoke about the government's big answers, the question I will refer to later—the National Building Rehabilitation Fund (FNRE), for example launched in 2016, had the ambition to recover 7500 homes and to have affordable prices. Now, still recently, the Secretary of State said that since 2016 the government had not yet arranged time to make even an inventory. So the answer is zero! The State has a wealth set, which could be made available to respond to the country's housing needs. In fact, we have a public housing park that accounts for about 2 % of the market, but the government is responding in the usual way. And what is that way? It is with plans and more plans, programs and more programs, promises and more promises, propaganda and more propaganda! And when we talk about action or execution, she's usually equal to zero. But I would also like to take this opportunity to bring to the debate what it was — and since we are talking about propaganda and promises — a goal, an ambition of the Prime Minister, by making certain statements. I must say that when I read this and heard these statements from Mr. Prime Minister, I thought: if it were Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, who has the guardianship, to make a statement of these, until I would find it normal, I am not seeing him in the social districts, so it would be possible to make a certain type of statement. Well, what did Mr. Prime Minister say? Mr. Prime Minister believes it is possible to achieve a goal. And what is the goal of Mr. Prime Minister? The goal is to celebrate the 50 years of April 25 in 2024, having eradicated the situations of poverty from Portuguese society. It turns out that this Prime Minister himself was President of the City Council of Lisbon, so he knows the conditions in terms of housing, precisely in the capital, and he also knows this reality as well as the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs for having been Vice President of the City Council of Lisbon — as far as Minister Pedro Nuno Santos is concerned — and both know one thing: that in order to have access to a social housing or a municipal housing, he does not have to live in a situation of poverty, he needs to live in a situation of poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only those who live in a situation of misery, in our capital, can have access to a municipal residence!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u99	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u100	I will now finish, Mr President. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister, when he speaks in a dignified housing, he does not know that this is a dwelling where there are no infiltrations, where there are no problems of moisture, where the issue of energy efficiency is assured, where elevators work. This is to give dignity to those who live unworthyly in these same neighborhoods. Having said that, Madam Secretary of State, do less propaganda and, perhaps, it is better, before coming to the Assembly of the Republic, to talk more about answers to problems related to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government :The Secretary of State, this morning, we presented five measures aimed at deepening the IHRU's capacity as a national authority and public service in the area of housing. For effective applicability, either of the Housing Basics Act or of the Constitution itself, the competences of the IHRU must be clear and strengthened. This decree-law goes that way, but it could go further. We understand that either by its territorialization or by the functioning of the bodies themselves which support their work, or by the articulation with other public services, or by the transparency which must accompany all housing policies, the IHRU could be even more strengthened in this decree-law. We therefore make our five contributions here to establish an authority within the framework of housing. First of all, we propose that decentralised services be guaranteed, as is already the case in the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) and in social security. This is because housing policies have very strong implementation at local level and also have characteristics that influence a whole region. in this sense, it is not understood to maintain a centralized structure that cannot give responses locally and intervene in regions autonomously. IHRU cannot remain centralised. Secondly, we propose that the Consultative Council be deepened so that it can be more operational, regular, participatory and transparent. The Advisory Council has already had a much more defined functioning, with limited mandates and regular meetings. The last Advisory Council was appointed in 2013 and was clearly abandoned in recent years. This illustrates not only the disregard to which the different housing bodies were voted, but also the lack of perspective on the construction of the services which, in the meantime, were put into practice in the law. Neither the Advisory Council, nor the Housing Observatory, nor the Rent Injunction Service currently work, and it would be essential to ensure a critical and acting body, restating the operation prior to the devastating action of the former Crist Assumption. It is also essential to ensure transparency through the publication of anta and documents which this Council is issuing. Thirdly, we propose that information be linked to social security. We understand, during this pandemic, and with the creation of the IHRU emergency support, that, if there was a link between IHRU and social security, much of the information that was missing from IHRU would be guaranteed through requests for social security support. This is an obvious measure and it is necessary for the IHRU to have the social support component and to address the difficulties that arose with the approval of the candidatures. In fact, this programme has not been able to respond and social security has a completely different capacity than IHRU to be able to attribute this information. Fourthly, we propose that authority powers be assigned to carry out the new supervisory functions of the lease legislation. An entity to which supervision powers are to be given must have the capacity to do so. It is necessary to guarantee workers, even more workers, but it is also necessary for some of these workers to have authority. This is the case in ACT, this is the case in social security and must also be the case in IHRU. Finally, fifthly, we propose that the annual advertising of programme 1 be maintained. o Law. Housing programmes have been inscrutable and have little accessible information. In fact, this is a problem in all housing policies: there is little systematic information to identify problems. There is also no transparency. Program 1. The law seemed to want to change this. In fact, we have had information available on this programme. The initial drafting must be maintained with the periodic institution of the presentation of this information not only publicly, but also to the Assembly itself, as we approved in the State budget for 2020. The logic of housing policies has to change radically. Much work has been done in this House in the last four years, but little has changed in concrete.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u103	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President. Complying with the Constitution and the Housing Basics Act requires us to be more demanding and responsible so that the fear of not having where to live ceases to be a reality in Portugal. This is the commitment of the Left Block here in the Assembly of the Republic, and for which we are prepared to contribute, from the outset, with these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u105	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to leave two very brief notes on the parliamentary appreciation of Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October which the Portuguese Communist Party brings us today for discussion and which, in our view, has every opportunity. In fact, with the entry into force of the Basics of Housing Act — Law No 83 / 2019 of 3 September 2019 — it is absolutely imperative to create the conditions for the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, as ‘a public entity promoting national housing policy’ to develop its important tasks. For this purpose, it is necessary not only to provide the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation with the necessary powers for this purpose, but also the means, or what we can call 'operational capacity', so that this Institute can develop its work, as is also the result of Law No 83 / 2019 and, more specifically, Article 16(7). o. On the other hand, there is no need for great effort to realize that both programs and instruments that give shape to the New Generation of Housing Policies (NGPH) are guided by criteria that are all less uniform and that, even in some cases, they not only deviate as they show themselves even contrary to Law No. 83 / 2019, the Housing Bases Act. In fact, what is known is that both the programs and instruments of this New Habitat Policy Generation (NGPH) have proved to be absolutely inadequate or even unable to transform public housing policies into real and effective tools to respond to the enormous problems and colossal deficiencies that the country lives in terms of housing. If there were any doubts about this, it would be sufficient to look at the few results of the implementation reports of those programmes, in particular the Programme Implementation Report 1. the law and the implementation rate it presents, in order to be properly clarified about the importance of these programmes, as contributions to respond to the problems we face with regard to housing deficiencies. In view of this scenario, what is required is to improve the existing legal framework so that a certain harmony can be established between, on the one hand, the New Housing Policy Generation and, on the other hand, the Housing Basics Act of 2019, because, as we have all witnessed, the measures provided for in the Law Decree, whose appreciation we now make, leave much to be desired, or rather, they leave everything to be desired. We therefore, in a global way, follow the proposed amendments to Decree-Law No 81/ 2020 of 2 October which are also under discussion, together with the assessment we are now making.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP says, in the explanatory statement of its request for parliamentary assessment, that « (...) the programmes and instruments of the so-called NGPH (... ) have already proved, unequivocally, that they are unable to give the intended public housing policies the necessary exits for the resolution of the very serious problems with which the country faces itself ». Now, we absolutely agree. The Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block are unable to give the intended public housing policies the necessary exits to solve the grave problems facing the country. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] We are absolutely in agreement. What we have been hearing since 2016 is the government saying « go quickly and force ». But where, gentlemen? Where are you going quickly and forcefully? Oh, my God! It's just that we didn't know and we thought it was by opacity. But it is not, and we have come to the conclusion that you don't know either. You don't know either! This is crazy. [[PSD applause.]] The big problem is that since 2016, they've been running fast and hard, they don't know where. Dr. Mário Centeno didn't give you the money they asked for! Of the 250 million they asked for, it went to 7 million, the Secretary of State for Housing, it was not zero, contrary to what the Minister said! And the only program I had, the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, has 7 million, Mrs. Secretary of State, is not zero, with which you did nothing, did zero! He had 7 million and he did zero! But now, for next year, it's already 150 million! And for what? What is the national housing policy in this country? What is it? It doesn't exist! How are you doing this? They are waiting for the municipalities to ask the municipality. See if there makes any sense that the municipalities that arrive first are the ones that receive first. And who got here first? The municipality of Arruda dos Vinhos! Now, is there in Arruda of the Wines the greatest urgency of dwelling in our country? Oh, my God! In Arruda dos Vinhos? Oh, my God! Do you see social housing fires? Oh, my God! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about Lisbon...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u109	The PSD list head for Lisbon is against Lisbon! You have to record that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u110	Let's talk about Lisbon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The City Hall of Lisbon has 60 empty buildings, falling from the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of the Building since 2016! [[PSD applause.]] The City Council of Lisbon has 300 million IMTs (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions ). Why does the Lisbon Chamber need the 18 million you're giving it when we have people in Bragança dying cold because they don't have money to heat up the houses? What's the logic of this? The City Council of Lisbon has a dynamic market and manages to solve problems alone if it has a capable executive. What are you guys doing here with this? It doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u111	What about the Cascais Chamber?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u112	You want me to talk about the Cascais Chamber? The Marechal Carmona neighborhood is exactly what we want for the national housing program. [[PSD applause.]] The Cascais Chamber does not need to ask for money from the State such as Arruda dos Vinhos or Lisbon because the Cascais Chamber has a national self-sustainable housing program, in which two-thirds of affordable income is paid at the cost of construction, which is what is in our electoral program. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a big question we have to ask you. There are no programs, everyone has already noticed; they don't know where they're going, everyone has. The question is what is the capacity installed in the public properties of the State. This is mandatory to know, and we do not know what capacity is installed. It is more important to know how many properties we have than what the need for these properties is. And we don't know, we have no idea. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, which city do you want to build? You want to build a city of social neighborhoods? Is that what you want to do in the 21st century? More social housing? Oh, my God! More social ghettos? Oh, my God! Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u113	You'd better know where you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u114	We want you to know out there what the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party want to do, that is, more social neighborhoods. No, that is not the solution; we need an integrated solution of real social mobility where there are no ghettos, where there is inclusion, there is solidarity, there is social justice and there is freedom. You have already shown that you are unable to give any answer to the serious problems facing the country, as they themselves now recognize. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, 2021 is the year to end socialism in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u115	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u116	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. Members: When we discuss the importance of the right to housing as a constitutional right and indispensable for the realization of a true social state, we know which side is on the left, in particular the CFP, which requires this parliamentary assessment, as there is no doubt that this is one of the great designs that the Socialist Party has chosen since the beginning of its governance. It is, in fact, on the left that we share this plan. When we recognize that the right to housing has been de-investted for years, year after year, after government, there is no doubt about who has engaged, designed and implemented the instruments and policies to interrupt, once and for all, a chapter on the devaluation of public housing policy and the devaluation of the role of the State in all areas, but also in housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] It is that while the right vote against the Housing Basics Act, while the right always fails, as today in this debate, to present positive proposals and acknowledge their responsibilities, the PS governments and the left parties represented in this House, where the PCP has been included since 2015, which, each Budget presented, to each viable budget, have strengthened access and investment to housing. It has been the Government of the Socialist Party to implement the strategy that will allow our country, in the medium term, in the future, to end housing shortages and correct market injustices. There is no party or sector that does not know the clarity and justice of the following priorities: to end the lack of inundated housing, to increase the public housing park and to combine this effort with affordable rental policies, to assume an interventional perspective of the housing market, combating the imbalance between the income of people, families and young people compared to market prices. These are the main objectives that we want to achieve and we now have concrete results. There is no party or citizen who doesn't know the seriousness of the social and economic situation we live... [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] ...and its profound impact on the difficulty of keeping the house or paying the rent. This is not therefore the time — contrary to what has been said — to go back to the strategy created, but to continue, in all ways, with all means, to realize the concrete rights and concrete responsibilities of the State expressed in the Housing Bases Act and framed in a new generation of policies, whose instruments of action are appropriate to the decree of the Government we are considering. When we begin to dedicate the defeat of an economic vision of housing with policies that produce — contrary to what the PSD means in a demagogic exercise — concrete results with an impact on the lives of Portuguese people, it is not the time to demobilize all efforts, from the state, municipalities and the third sector, with a genuine national design. We cannot call the rhythm ineffectively, that we would all like it to be faster, that policies must be implemented; we will not call the greatest effort of non-existent...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u117	What effort? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u118	... that the State has already done with the public housing park, because its availability is delayed; and we will certainly not call the central State irresponsible for sharing with the municipalities the magnitude of the response that needs to be given in this matter. It is fair to say that the level of response has not reached what we want to achieve, and they will not hear the Socialist Party's formed, or silent, or not available for proposals that are presented to improve solutions and answers, of course, the informality of the lease market, of course, the too many young people or families who are excluded from these responses. But what we will not do is abandon our degree of commitment and conviction in the value of the structural and medium-term reform that we are doing and that it was unacceptable and urgent. We hope that we can also be on the same side and share a plan for the present and the future. In fact, the decree-law that we properly appreciate instruments and policies, such as programme 1. the right, which today responds to more than 10 000 families, to which local housing strategies have already been approved and the many that will be followed, such as the increase of the State's real estate stock exchange for affordable rent under IHRU. Responds to families who find answers in the affordable lease and to young people who find answers in Porta 65. And neither were those left behind who were fundamental to the support for incomes and the suspension of contract expiration in this time of emergency and social crisis that we live in. We have fulfilled and are fulfilling our responsibilities and ambition, and the appreciation to which we are engaged in this debate only deepens solutions — and now gathers others — so that housing is truly a guaranteed pillar of the democratic state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u119	The Government still has time at this stage of the debate. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am always very impressed when I come to debate Parliament and I realize that, on the right side of the parties, the only things that bring to the debate are demagogy, fallacies and a set of brutal contempt for the work that the municipalities and the state are doing. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Filipa Roseta, I've been very opposed to what I said, I've been very attentive to what the CDS said and I haven't heard a single proposal on your side. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u121	Didn't you hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u122	The honourable Member, who likes to talk so much, listen now. I heard the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen said the inventory is missing. No, the inventory was missing, what we did in the government was to start the inventory. And, if you do not know, read the annex to Decree-Law No 94 / 2019 or Decree-Law No 82 / 2020, where you find some buildings. If you want to know what's actually in the inventory, there's the basis for the inventory. But, more: we did programs. Mrs. Deputy may disrespect the Aruda of the Wines, may disrespect the families of Aruda of the Wines, but I do not disrespect them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Arruda dos Vinhos was the first municipality to present a local housing strategy. After Arruda dos Vinhos, there were nine more authorities already with agreements signed, besides these there are 12 authorities that already have the strategy approved by the IHRU and there are 28 others who have already approved their strategies in the municipal chamber and in the municipal assembly. The municipalities are working and are concerned about responding to the population. The State is working and is truly concerned about responding to housing. We had taken it that the answer was faster, but the truth is that the answer has steps, steps that have to be given and that are being given.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u123	Bird move!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u124	I would like to conclude, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u125	Madam Member, we have not stopped, we have not presented a two-month strategy to complete the mandate; we have presented it at the beginning and at the moment we are implementing it. That's what we're doing. With regard to the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of the Building and the 7 million, when the Minister said that nothing was executed was because we were talking about the year 2020, therefore, Mrs Deputy, we will be correct in the information we passed. The FNRE has a lot of work done and I was hoping that the honourable Member would have a little more information today and come here with concrete data on the work that the FNRE is doing. You know very well what you are doing, because you have this information, and I do not remember hearing you talk about it here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He spoke only of a set of vague concepts and demagogy with zero proposals for housing. Zero! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the closing stage of the debate. First of all, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There is an urgent and indispensable political option, which is to take effective action to strengthen the response and responsibility of the State in fulfilling the tasks assigned to it, as soon as possible in accordance with Article 65. the Constitution. This need is recognised and is even stated in the presentation of these legal diplomas by the Government. What we are in favour of is that, at the level of investment, at the level of budgetary effort and the distribution of financial effort between the central government and the municipalities, there is consistency and consequence in the effective translation of these budgetary values, even because with so much 'basca' and so much armament that is placed there, at the level of financing, we clearly demonstrate the need and possibility of the central State to assume its responsibilities. At first, I had said that there is a question that has to do with the material limits, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, of the parliamentary assessment of the decrees. The proposals put forward by the CFP respect this material limit, we have been in addition to what were the amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 81 / 2020 of 2 October 2020 and we say that, as for the rest, we would have to return to this debate in our own place. There is a question where the equality of arms and the equality of circumstances of the proposed capacity cannot be ignored so that there are not those who seem to have the ideas and others who do not seem to have because they put them at the right time. Therefore, we cannot fail to make this observation. We have a specialized work to do and we continue to say that there must be a serious, constructive work to improve the law both from the point of view of this parliamentary assessment and from what the decree-law does not consecrate and that it needs to be carried out further. With regard to PSD, we cannot fail to regret that the total absence of proposals or contributions has been resolved with screaming and insult. It is no longer worth recommending that you know where you are, nor is it worth appealing to memory and to the stench of those who have done everything to dismantle the IHRU and have left in the house the mark of destruction and dismantling; just, perhaps, recommend some who will visit the New Pinhal neighborhood or the Tower neighborhood to remember what they are talking about. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u128	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Housing, Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to reiterate what I said at the beginning of the debate, namely that we are, of course, available to evaluate the proposals presented in the context of parliamentary review. Obviously this is a work of Parliament, but if you want to hear our views we are available to discuss them. It is important to strengthen — we know this — that the proposals put forward are aimed at making public housing policy effective. That's something that unites us, that is to give home to everyone. That's an objective. We speak not only of the poorest families, of social housing — this is an important focus of public housing policy — but also of a response to the middle class, to the obvious needs that exist in our country. Therefore, our great commitment is to continue to work on current public policies. We will not suspend our work due to the greater or lesser progress of policies. We would all like housing policy to be resolved one day at a time, but unfortunately we have a very big burden on what has been the past, which also holds the Socialist Party responsible. But there was a past of complete deresponsibility of what was the right to housing as a fundamental pillar of the social state. We also assume the lack of speed in the response, but we assume the answer, and what matters is that, together, we continue to work and create instruments that are effectively effective in protecting the right to housing so that, within a year or a month or two, when we discuss housing again, we always strengthen our joint perspective of working for a fundamental right such as the right to housing. In the end, that is what matters, that is what should be of interest to all parties in Parliament and which also interests the government: to make robust policies, to work on them and not to disregard the work done or to despise the desire to give response to the whole population, from families with lower incomes, social housing, to affordable rent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u130	It should be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u131	They can count on us for this, they can count on our commitment to finding answers, but they do not contain us for cheap demagogy, finding only problems and questioning what is done. That is not our path, that is not our commitment, that is not our responsibility, nor should it be our responsibility, I think, that of Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u132	Mrs. Members, I inform you that during this debate, proposals for amendments have been made to the decree of law which has been under consideration, submitted by the CFP and BE, which will be brought down to their committee for assessment and vote. We will now move on to the third point of the agenda, which is from the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 784 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Place the humanitarian crisis and the problem of terrorism in Mozambique in the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union and 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the mobilisation of the international community in order to prevent crimes committed against humanity in Mozambique. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. Member of the CDS João Piinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u133	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u134	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u135	Mr President, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida is not present, but I think he should be coming, so he asked for the House's consideration to wait about 30 seconds or 1 minute. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u136	If there was no opposition from the CDS or anyone else, I would suggest that she first use the word Mrs. Inês de Sousa Real, who would already present the draft resolution of the NAP. [[Pause.]] There is no objection, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the month we celebrate the International Day of Human Rights, we could not fail to bring here a matter of great importance in this area, as is the case with the absolutely dramatic situation in the population of Cape Delgado in northern Mozambique. We consider it essential that Portugal should set an example in raising awareness of humanitarian intervention in this situation, not only because of the humanitarian values and the moral duty that we have in this area, but above all because of the particular proximity between Portugal and Mozambique, both parts of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ). The situation in Mozambique is extremely serious, as reported by the international press and non-governmental organizations. In addition to the daily population terrorized by killings carried out with extreme cruelty and the disappearance of a large number of children who are abducted by terrorist groups, and whose reports tell us that they are even subjected to rape and forced marriages, Amnesty International estimates that 350 000 people are now at risk of hunger in that country, so we cannot wait any longer to intervene and mobilize the international community for this scourge, which has already made half a million refugees. The international community and Portugal should not take any longer to act, nor would it be justifiable, before the Portuguese and Mozambican populations, that we did not bring a clear sign of support and solidarity to all those affected in the effective implementation of actions aimed at achieving this objective. Nor can we fail in the total and absolute condemnation of all the acts of murder, torture and violence that have happened in that country and in the total repudiation of organizations that predate the most fragile and unprotected human beings in the most vulnerable areas of the world, although, curiously, one of the richest areas in natural gas and precious stones, already plagued by natural disasters or economic crises, as in this case, making human suffering unacceptable. With the assurance that we will always act together to recriminate these practices and to assist all peoples in difficulty in the face of attacks and violations of human rights, we can also reflect on the suffering that we can avoid if we act in advance, seeking to prevent these situations from reaching such proportions. It is this same suffering, despair and hunger of thousands of people in Mozambique, which makes us not indifferent or minimize this humanitarian drama, under the penalty of assuming complicity with the heinous crimes that are being committed at this very moment. If today the world sees itself with an extremely complex situation caused by the COVID-19, which has mobilized us all in solidarity, there are indeed those who are in a much more complex situation and who have seen extremist movements take advantage of this global situation to advance their agendas and commit crimes against humanity that cannot be tolerated by the international community. That is why the NAP has put forward this initiative to recommend that the Government, through the various diplomatic channels, intercede with the international community in order to promote all the efforts necessary to help prevent crimes against humanity that are taking place in Mozambique and thus to assist affected populations in restoring peace and supporting populations. It is what we hope for the humanitarian values that guide our country and it is what our brother people also expect.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u138	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to stress that the CDS has asked for the scheduling of this matter for today's session for a reason which is easily understandable. The question of the province of Cabo Delgado and northern Mozambique obviously has a global and international dimension. The situation is absolutely dramatic, as has been said. We are talking about anything like more than 2000 murders, people dead, and we can be talking about a very close number already today than half a million refugees or displaced persons due to this crisis. We are talking about a terrorist organization, Daesh-related cells and systematic attacks that in some cases lead to the abduction of dozens of young people and children who are then subjected to all kinds of abuse. This has an international implication. And I believe that Portugal cannot forget that, recently, the United States of America wanted to take on as a privileged partner in this matter and that the country itself, Mozambique, varies between the request for support to the Commonwealth or any other reality. Now, we are asking—and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Portuguese António Guterres, has already said so, and well—and Portugal must also ask: then, and the European Union? It is that the European Union has a special relationship here, not only because it is a state that speaks the same language as one of its States, but also because it has a brotherhood, historical ties with Portugal, which are obviously inexorable. In our view, this implies a responsibility of the European Union. I want to make it clear that this is not a religious issue, we are not talking about a religious conflict. Moreover, the leaders of the various communities, particularly the leaders of the Islamic community, are the first to ask for help. We are talking about terrorism, violent, aggressive terrorism, which is causing this problem. from the Portuguese point of view and from the point of view of CPLP — and having CPLP the limitations we know in this matter and in this field of action — what can Portugal do? It can help raise the issue in international forums. Clearly, a death is a death. If a citizen is stabbed on a street in Paris, Brussels or London it is a death and therefore in value this is always an unacceptable death and act if he is a victim of terrorism. But they notice the difference between international attention and media attention given to any attack committed on European soil—and the scandal that this provokes from an international point of view—and the attention given to hundreds or thousands of people being killed, in the same way, by terrorist organizations in Mozambique. That's what we can't afford. Such attention must be equal, must be greater, must be a real concern. The European Union has stabilization, peace and security mechanisms in its relationship with Africa. Portugal will assume the Presidency and, therefore, we propose that Portugal clearly put this on the agenda of the European Presidency and what we are asking for today is unequivocal support for this to be an important issue for the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union, taken up by the Portuguese Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u140	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over two months ago in this Chamber, in a debate before a European Council, he told the Prime Minister that an urgent response from the European Union to the conflict in Mozambique and that Portugal should lead this process. But in addition to the very recent visit of the Minister of Defence to Mozambique, I have seen nothing more to be done on this subject, despite warnings, despite the frequent news that everyone is concerned and shocked. Mozambique has officially called for humanitarian and military aid to the European Union because it cannot stop the escalation of armed groups that are spreading terror in the northern part of the country. So I hope that some on the left will not now say that helping Mozambique is a new form of imperialism or colonialism, when it is no more than humanism. It is a country that is close to us, CPLP member, with thousands of dead and hundreds of thousands of displaced, asking for help, and I am sure that no one in this House wants more people's deaths, more human rights abuses and more infrastructure destruction. Therefore, for the Liberal Initiative it is clear that Portugal and Europe have a duty to help Mozambique, using the appropriate diplomatic channels, including the relationship with the Southern African Development Community. Portugal must lead this process, especially now, which will take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. To lead this: to take the initiative at European and global level, and to take risks on behalf of the human rights of all Mozambicans. The Liberal Initiative will therefore vote in favour of today's proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u142	It was never the left that closed ports to refugees! You have to search the bench next to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u143	Mr Nuno Carvalho, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u144	Mr President, I begin by congratulating you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue is crucial for the country, because Portugal concentrates much of its public development aid, its cooperation and its bilateral policy at the PALOP ( African Countries of Portuguese Official Language ). It should be stressed that Mozambique has been one of the countries that has received most support from several institutions, such as the Camões Institute and the Aga Khan Foundation, which has a delegation in Mozambique and has played a crucial role. The Camões Institute has also carried out a very important work in Mozambique, just as other entities have played a very valuable role in cooperation and aid to Mozambique. The aid must take place through the request of a sovereign State and Portugal must respond on the basis of that request. It is therefore crucial that Portugal uses the instruments at its disposal, such as the Camões Institute or the SOFID(Society for Financing for Development), which has developed very important projects for the financing and support of Portuguese companies that create wealth and which, in simple terms, train the population through access to literacy, health and greater income. The failure to access these socio-economic levels is what causes situations that allow such acts, which are installing and increasing, gaining a scale and an obviously worrying dimension. Today this Parliament gives an important sign of a historic availability of Portugal that we hope can correspond through the instruments that exist, because these instruments of cooperation are fundamental not only to be able to help in the medium and long term but also to ensure that we do not return to this same situation. It is unfortunate that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not give that signal when he was here during the discussion of the State budget and only made comments on national policy. It is a pity to have missed this opportunity, and it is very good today that this Parliament, as a sovereign body, is doing this discussion to correct this failure in terms of a historic policy in cooperation with Mozambique, and that it is essential to strengthen each step. It is essential that Portugal also look at the Presidency of the European Union and can maintain this important route in the PALOPs. It is essential that Portugal do so in cooperation with Mozambique and through the institutions it has on the ground and which are very valuable in the direction of the European Union's will to extend its approach to intervention in Mozambique through delegated cooperation. Very well, therefore, this Parliament has been. Unfortunately, others were very badly and badly adjusted in view of their intervention in Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Cabo Delgado has been under attack by insurgents for three years. Violence has provoked a humanitarian crisis, and there are already 2000 deaths and 500,000 displaced people. Without housing, without food, only with the clothes they bring in the body, people focus on the capital of the province. The complexity of the situation and the serious violations of human rights result from the action of various armed groups: religious extremists, smugglers, state security units and forces, private security companies serving large gas mining companies, rubies, gold and graffiti. There is also the presence of international mercenaries, such as Wagner Group. The province is desirable because of natural resources. The most powerful companies in the richest countries are already exploiting gas reserves. Africa has already been given as the lost continent. It is more than certain that wars, dictatorships, plutocracy, nepotisms, famines, diseases, epidemics are the consequences of colonization, which has never recognized peoples and nations. Millions of people were enslaved for more than five centuries and used as labor in the large plantations of the American continent. That alone should already give African peoples the right to reparations forever. The advent of industrialization required the possession of territories in Africa. Natural wealth is extracted using cheap local labour, from a population that lives in an already distant way from ancestors. After independence, the continent remains desirable for some of the richest countries and large companies. The loot continues until today and almost nothing returns to the populations. Infant mortality is frightening, lack basic health care and fat hunger. Many flee from hunger and war and look for places where they can raise their children. Ironically, the safest places are in countries that have developed at the expense of exploiting their wealth. This should weigh on the consciences of all decision makers. There is a huge debt to the peoples of Africa, but we continue to consider that everything that happened after decolonization is the fault of the Africans. Is it possible that this extraction will continue forever without the reaction of the people? Mozambique is the world's seventh poorest country. Cape Delgado is the poorest province in Mozambique. Insurgents work primarily with young people, who, without hope in a better life, become seduced. For the Left Block, the solution must be found in multilateralism within the international community of humanitarian pendant and with measures to prevent and mediate conflicts. The European Union must exercise control over companies operating in the region within the framework of the transparency of the extractive industry. The force of weapons can solve the episode of violence in the region, but it will always be a temporary solution. The final solution goes through structural and planned measures with the Mozambican Government, such as a development plan which has the condition that a substantial part of the wealth generated by the exploitation of gas remains in the region and is invested in improving living conditions, as well as the creation of a fund for the current and future generations of Mozambique that ends poverty. The international community must assume historical responsibility and have a long-term effective response to development in Africa, repairing centuries of exploitation of people and resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u147	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Pisco, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group has long held that the situation in Cabo Delgado province cannot be ignored by the international community. But we also believe that the approach to a problem as complex and sensitive as this requires proper diplomatic sobriety in respect for Mozambique's sovereignty, which seems not always well understood by some. Mozambique is a brother country, a member of the CPLP, with which Portugal has a deep friendship. We know ourselves well and are therefore privileged partners in development cooperation in various areas and we have regular bilateral summits. And Mozambique knows that it can count on Portugal, which has always been an active defender in international forums, particularly in the European Union. Nothing that happens in this country is strange to us, where we should also highlight the important Portuguese community which deserves all the attention. Therefore, as news of terrorist attacks in northern Mozambique emerged, especially for three years to this part, weakening populations already with very precarious lives, the perception of the need to support Mozambique has become increasingly unreachable. The situation is dramatic and unfolds on several fronts, but the ones that raise the greatest concern are: the territorial expansion of the jihadist threat, with its barbaric methods that massacre populations and destroy villages, and the serious humanitarian crisis that these attacks have caused, already making about 2000 dead and about half a million displaced. The participation of foreign insurgents, who fear internationalization of the conflict, the growing sophistication of their war material and combat tactics, the threat to the integrity and sovereignty of the Mozambican State, the illegitimate interests that cross the ground, the violation of human rights or limitations to freedom of the press, all issues that have been perfectly identified by both the European Union and the United Nations. It is therefore natural that there are more and more voices in expressing their concern that should not be ignored, whether from religious authorities, such as the Bishop of Pemba, or from civil society organizations in Cape Delgado and the rest of the country. The appeals of the United Nations, the European Union, Portugal, other countries and other regional organizations are intended to help stop the barbarism and the suffering of many Mozambicans without ever calling into question respect for the sovereignty of the country. There must therefore be a concerted effort by the international community and structured on several fronts, both in terms of security, development and humanitarian support. The various countries and regional organisations can contribute, and the CPLP must also play a significant role, as it has already taken place at the last meeting of foreign ministers. This consultation is essential and urgent in order to prevent widespread instability in the country and at regional level. International terrorism has already dramatically affected other neighbouring countries, such as Somalia, Kenya or Tanzania. And, therefore, the situation is very dangerous and very worrisome. I would also like to stress that it was of the greatest importance that the Mozambican Government had decided to formally ask for help from the European Union, in a letter dated 16 September, which clearly opened up the prospects for support from the international community. Prime Minister António Costa has recently sent President Nyusi the willingness to support bilaterally and within the framework of the European Union in efforts to combat terrorism in Cabo Delgado. A week ago, the Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, on a trip to Mozambique, assured that, from January onwards, under cooperation in the area of defence, a team of military will be sent to provide tactical training in various areas to the Mozambican security and defence forces, with the sole aim of helping the authorities to exercise their sovereignty, without soldiers on the ground. There should therefore be no doubt that, for the Portuguese Government, it is a priority to support Mozambique in the fight against terrorism, in the humanitarian field and in other areas of cooperation, by mobilising all diplomatic resources at its disposal, obviously starting with the indispensable support that the European Union can give, as will inevitably be one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, as it is already determined. The High Representative for Foreign Policy, Josep Borrel, has already asked Minister Augusto Santos Silva to move to Mozambique, representing the European Union, to better define the forms of cooperation. Portugal does not forget Mozambique nor will it allow the international community to do so. Always, but always, in respect for his sovereignty, we will be on the front line to support this brother country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u149	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in Mozambique is dramatic. But as long as we lose in the discussion about whether we should act faster or less quickly we should put our eyes on an image of armed terrorists at the door of a squad, saying "We took control of the squad, we will soon take control of the country". And those who discuss today whether or not we should have troops on the ground, whether or not we should honour historical commitments or those who say that the fault lies with European colonization should look at the example of Syria and Iraq to know that the sooner we act on this matter, the greater the machadade we can give in humanity. When the crisis began in Syria, some said « it is better not to intervene, it is better to respect the government of Bashar Al-Assad ». And what happened was five years of endless struggle, which ended only when an armed coalition put an end to the Daesh group. It was neither Syria nor Iraq that put an end to Daesh, it was a coalition of European and American forces that put an end to terrorism in the region. We have a historic responsibility and we cannot allow a new focus on terrorism to be established in a Portuguese-speaking country across the continent. Will history not forgive us if, as we discuss — commitments or sovereignty? — terrorists are taking more control of the country and throwing their fierce claws on the economy, drug trafficking and smuggling.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u151	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u152	I will finish, Mr. President. We won't have two chances. Portugal must not only say, it must lead before others come to do so and assume this victory. It is time to act in Mozambique, and we must do it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u153	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I begin by expressing our most absolute repudiation for the terrorist action, for the barbarians killed, for the brutality of massacres that have slaughtered the population of the province of Cabo Delgado, in Mozambique. This is a truly dramatic humanitarian situation, with hundreds of thousands of displaced people in the country, with populations fleeing under the most difficult human conditions and with the difficulty of painting the future with colors of very little hope for millions of citizens in Mozambique. Therefore, we also want to express our solidarity with the people of Mozambique and with their national political institutions and authorities, not forgetting their efforts to identify the intervention lines around this problem, so that this terrorist and destabilizing action and the humanitarian crisis they face will truly end. Thus, the Mozambican people can in fact find a prospect of development, progress and peace for their future. The Portuguese State has an obligation to state its willingness to comply with the support requested by the Mozambican State and it seems to us that this must be the first prerequisite for addressing the solutions to this problem. At this stage, closer political and diplomatic ties between the Portuguese State and the Mozambican State and between the Portuguese Government and the Mozambican Government are essential, as they will enable us to find the line of international cooperation and solidarity that must be taken to practice in order to ensure a response that involves that situation in which we are living and that will create conditions for the Mozambican people and, in particular, that of Cape Delgado province, to have the assured peace, as well as conditions for their development, their progress and social justice with which they wish to build their future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to express our concern about two aspects which seem central to us in this situation in the province of Cabo Delgado and which, moreover, are not exclusive either of the situation there or of the situation in other countries, unfortunately, of the African continent. The first concern has to do with the appetites for the natural wealth of Mozambique and for the economic interests that behind them move and that may be at the origin of this terrorist action that has been developed for some time, and that they may also be taking advantage of it as a pretext for the installation of a situation that, in practice, allows the appropriation of Mozambique's natural wealth against the interests of the Mozambican people. If there is a position at the origin of these interests to take advantage of the destabilization resulting from this terrorist action, our concern must be assured that the intervention aimed at this problem does not, after all, become in the realization of these objectives, to the detriment of the interests of the sovereignty of the Mozambican people. On the other hand, the second concern has to do with the political appetites which are unfortunately already in sight, that is, with the use of this situation for the political and party struggle within Mozambique, from the external action to Mozambique. The circumstances in which we find political leaders, political leaders, political leaders — not only in Portugal, but in the outside world, which, trying to use the approach to this problem created in the province of Cape Delgado, do not fail to affirm any attempt to intervene internally in the political and party situation of Mozambique, which, of course, we deserve complete repudiation. In conclusion, I would like to say that the meaning of the concerns expressed in the initiatives presented by the CDS and the NAP does not raise any objection on the part of the CFP, but we believe that reference should be made to the circumstances of, with actions to be developed, respect for the sovereignty of the Mozambican people and their political institutions. It does not seem to us that this is difficult to introduce into the drafting of initiatives if they fall into the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u155	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Meireles of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I recall that the PSD was the first party in this Parliament, through a draft resolution, to recommend to the Government to raise awareness of the European Union in order to urgently activate humanitarian cooperation in the fight against terrorism in Mozambique.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u158	This draft resolution was adopted on 13 July this year. Unfortunately, this initiative completely collapsed because the external action service of the European Union and its high representative, Josep Borrell, recently asked by the European parliamentarians, said that he had no time to go to Cabo Delgado, said he did not know what resources could have been sent to the region and said he had no idea what the situation was there. And it has thus delegated this mission to the Portuguese Foreign Minister within the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, which we hope will give due attention to this crisis. In fact, as has already been said, this situation is extremely serious. Women and children are the main victims, with deaths, with rapes every day. Hopeless young people are recruited by radical Islamic terrorism and people are being expelled from their villages. There are many thousands of refugees, such as thousands of displaced persons. The health crisis is brutal. There are no logistics teams of the European Union, no doctors of the European Union. Malaria, cholera, COVID — all that seems to exist. There is not even accommodation, there is no help to take Cape Delgado. The European Union cannot vote for ostracism in Mozambique, it must be aware that this crisis has existed for more than three years and is only now being referred to the media stage. We thus encouraged the Portuguese Presidency to do its part, because the Mozambican people are indeed living on dramatic days in a humanitarian, health and brutal security crisis. We will therefore vote in favour of these draft resolutions, but it is enough political banality and action disguise. We must act with political will and, above all, human sensibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u159	Let us move on to the closing stage of this debate. To that end, Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say, in a very short way, that the fact that we have put this matter on the agenda demonstrates our concern. And since the CDS was the first party to present an initiative on this issue, it records the parliamentary consensus that was generated here, of all the benches that we have heard, on an issue that is really important and fundamental. We should look at the example of other countries that have language ties, historical ties and other ties with African countries. For example, when issues related to francophony are at stake, they are still on the agenda, including the international agenda, requiring these issues to be discussed. And that is what Portugal can do about our brothers in Mozambique, as it did when they were hit by a storm and a recent storm. Portugal was a catalyst for support and aid. With all the differences and parallelisms that we can establish, let us not forget that it was Portugal, when there was the situation in East Timor, that we are well remembered, that it put this issue on the international agenda and it was Portugal that helped it to be resolved. That is what we can do now in relation to Mozambique, what is asked of the Portuguese Government. In fact, good intentions are not enough, action must be taken, and the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union is a huge opportunity for this. It is that, coincidentally, when this matter is so dramatic and so serious, Portugal will take over the Presidency and will be able to put this issue on the agenda, and must make it clear — as did the Bishop of Pemba, a very important voice in this matter — the dramaticity of the situation. In fact, this is not a religious issue, but it obviously has — and there we will all agree — various appeties on the wealth of this country, taking advantage of its own weaknesses. We need to help the Mozambican authorities have the means and capacity to respond. That's what you're asking and not the other way around. We are not talking about external intervention by those who do not know or want to understand reality; we are talking about how we can help the Mozambican authorities deal with this problem. on the part of the CDS, in view of the last challenge of Mr João Oliveira, there is no limitation to which the diploma refers the absolute respect for the sovereignty of the Mozambican State and which puts this issue in the essence of the Portuguese Presidency. So, for us, there's no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u161	We therefore conclude the debate on these draft resolutions, which will be voted on during the voting period. We will move to the fourth point of our order of business, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or linkage to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of reporting obligations ( second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ). For the presentation of this bill, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u162	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today, the NAP brings the debate to another proposal that seeks to make a path in order to make it clear that citizens can rely on the neutrality and independence of their representatives in the face of private interests that cross with the public interest. What we want is to create a new field of optional filling that will allow the holders of political positions and high public positions to declare in their register of interests filiation in Masonic organizations. With regard to filiation in Masonic organizations, the legislation in force translates into a real call for indifference. This is because, although there is an open field, which, in theory, makes it possible to declare, in practice, that there is no clear guidance on the issues to be declared at that headquarters, so that, as a rule, this field ends up empty, without mention of the Masonic affiliation. But let's go to practical cases. In the current legislation, according to a journalistic investigation, only one member declared his or her membership in the Masonry and did so for legal imposition, because he or she is in question belonging to social bodies. But in other legislatures, history repeats itself. João Soares, a Member assumed Mason, in XII and XIII Legislatures did not declare his affiliation in this open field and the same happened in the XII Legislature with Rui Paulo Figueiredo, a Member who also competed with the grain-master of a Masonic shop. Cases like these occur not because of a desire for opacity but because of the inadequacy of the current legal framework, and this insufficiency compels us to act. Thus, the NAP today brings up a proposal that is inspired by the model existing in the United Kingdom and which has been even claimed by important names of the Masonry, such as João Cravinho. António Arnaut, a historical name of the democratic regime and of the Masonry, argued that a Mason should reveal his affiliation voluntarily, as the NAP is now seeking to allow. Mário Martin Gui, a former gran-master of the Great Legal Shop of Portugal, argued that, and I quote, « in the more democratically evolved societies, the Masons have no doubt in manifesting their quality as a Mason ». The NAP's proposal is responsible, since it does not overburden the transparency entity with new powers, something that would happen if there was a requirement to declare affiliation in all associations. The NAP proposal ensures full respect for the Constitution, since it does not intend to change the functioning of these organisations, prohibit the participation of politicians in them or oblige the advertising of the affiliation. It only wants to ensure the creation of an additional incentive for transparency. As Jorge Miranda, one of the parents of our Constitution, said the NAP proposal is constitutional and enshrines « a requirement of republican ethics », which implements a « general principle of transparency that must dominate political life ». The NAP proposal is useful because, as Vital Moreira said, in support of this proposal, the integration of ‘brotherships’ with a high degree of personal solidarity among its members constitutes a serious risk for exemption and impartiality in the exercise of public office. The NAP proposal responds to the concerns expressed from the left to the right of this Parliament over the years on the inadequacy of the current legal framework and the need to deepen the transparency of the Masonic affiliation of political positions: in the PSD, by the hand of Teresa Leal Coelho, who was a pioneer on the alert to this issue; on the left, Jerome de Sousa and Francisco Louçã defended the transparency of the Masonic affiliation of political positions holders; in the PS, Santos Silva was even further away and said that those who are not in a position to reveal this type of interest have no conditions for the exercise of political positions. We had positions in the past, including Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Ana Gomes, the two main candidates for the forthcoming presidential elections, in order to defend this deepening of transparency. These ideas and concerns now have the opportunity to be implemented in the form of law. It is known that there is an opportunity to have an in-depth discussion and to make improvements in the field of expertise. That is why, only because of lack of political will, sectarianism or aversion to change is that Parliament can make this proposal that the NAP brings to the discussion. During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u163	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do this liberal minute with the particular will of those who have never used vental outside the kitchen, cilicios in any division of the house, not even pins on the lapel, although respect the free choice of those who do. The organizations that the NAP intends to cover with this diploma are legally constituted and the current declaration of interest for holders of public office already imposes — and well! — to be declared as part of the social bodies thereof, whichever are. To go further passes the line of transparency and enters the domain of voyeurism. Even so, the scope of the proposal is not well understood, which does not intend to impose any obligations beyond those already existing, and only wants to create a voluntary field of completion. If they really think the problem is serious, they had to have the courage to make the filling compulsory. It remains to be noted that what associations are intended for political office holders to be listed? What are the promises of faithfulness? Are they the Masons? Opus God? Associations of former students? You swear friends? Associations in which their members make night raids, hooded, to rescue animals? Are there any secrets of good and secrets of evil? Oh, my God! Infringements and illegalities by secret, discreet or pathetic entities should be dealt with in the same way with a competent State acting and posing, where appropriate, without voyeurism and populism. That is why we will make this initiative possible in order to improve substantially in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u165	Mr José Manuel Pureza, on the occasion of his 62. the anniversary, which is completed today, will use the word to intervene. Many congratulations, Mr. Deputies! [[General applause.]] You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u167	It's a discreet birthday!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u168	A discreet birthday! [[Laughing.]] Yesterday, Mr President, on the basis of a small delay in the presidency of the session, he referred to his probate age and I could not stop smiling with envy. The envy is now redoubled and I thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has been fully committed to the work that has led to the latest legislative changes to the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. of the many proposals that we have put forward there, several have not been approved, with particular emphasis on the rule of exclusivity in the exercise of the duties of a Member. Not only for that reason, but for a reason of principle, the Left Block believes that the refining of that regime is — it must be! — a task always open because the fight against transparency in the name of a democracy that guarantees full confidence to citizens must be permanent and must have the utmost requirement. The mesh of potential conflicts of interest should be designed with such determination as to be sensible. Since it is good to defend that of the exclusive dedication of the political or high-ranking position holder to defend the public interest, it is also clear that the legal forecast of conflicts of interest must be able to achieve all situations in which other allegiances may overlap with that one. There's a limit to that, and we know him well. The determination we have to have so that the law covers all these situations of group complicity cannot serve as a justification for the laws-measure, which aim to target some specific entities and not others, disguise this strategy behind indeterminate concepts. We understand it well: the concept of "discreet societies" is an euphemism to speak of Masonry and Opus Dei, and, by using it, the NAP project loses its ambition, because it narrows the field that should be covered. Loyalty to the absolute primacy of the public interest is far from limited to formal affiliation in one of these two entities. There is an immense mesh of relations, formal one, informal the majority, in which are generated cultures of preferential protection and of defense of solutions in which the group overlaps with democracy. From lawyer companies to football clubs, passing through so many other entities, there are networks of affinity or even complicity that, in their informality, are the real foundation of many proposals and many decisions. The limitation of this NAP proposal to so-called 'discreet societies' is thus reducing the ambition we must have in order to protect democracy from its capture by interest groups. But there is a second choice of this project that robs you of strength in defending the public interest. Between the obligation to declare filiation in so-called ‘discreet societies’ and the ability to do or not, the NAP has chosen this one, a choice that is risky to be harmless. First, because the legislation in force already envisages the ability of the holder of political office or high public office to voluntarily declare other links beyond the social positions he exercises and which are liable to generate incompatibilities or impediments provided for in the law. Then, because by leaving the criterion of each of them to declare this affiliation or not, it does not guarantee gains of transparency and perhaps guarantee losses of good name to whom, not being a member of these societies, it does not declare anything, and nevertheless, it is involved in false suspicions that the faculty stated helps to feed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that the Left Block is on the side of those who are consistent in the struggle for the primacy of the public interest and against the opacity and non-control of ties and belongings which call it into question. We are on the side of the highest demand in this regard and, therefore, if there is any special work on this initiative, the Bloc will present proposals that avoid it redundancy and increase its ambition and effectiveness. The final position we have come to adopt is conditional on the incorporation of these improvements which we consider essential. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on the parliamentary groups that wish to intervene to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u170	Mr President: This proposal from the NAP has two preferred targets, which are, of course, the Masonry and Opus Dei. And if that was the objective of the party, the following question remains to be asked, to which the NAP today should answer: why not make such a statement compulsory? If the problems of constitutionality were overcome, already referred to by renowned jurists, then it was the time of the NAP to move forward, if it really wanted to make the difference, and force it to be clear in the statement whether there is, or not, it belongs to discreet organizations. But it also agreed to define what these discreet organisations were, because we all know what it will say simply 'discreet organisations'. It will give in absolutely nothing, because no one will consider that the organization to which it belongs is discreet! Therefore, the project we have here is absolutely harmless and, as has been said, still above, is already provided for in the current declaration the possibility of registering belonging to other entities. Let us be clear: this was a great initiative of the NAP which, probably by the approach to the Socialist Party, became an innocuous initiative of the NAP, because, we all know, the Socialist Party does not want this mention to be mandatory in the register of declaration made in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr André Silva, the challenge is to amend his proposal so that he can force all members of this House to declare whether they belong to discreet organizations or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u171	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u172	I shall conclude, Mr President. But go further, Mr President, and allow all organizations, not only the Masonry and Opus Dei, to rely on your proposal. Perhaps some animal associations and organisations may be there and perhaps the honourable Member may also, if necessary, sign up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u173	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP presents to us for discussion a legislative initiative proposing an amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July establishing the regime for the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions. when we look at the designation or title of this bill, which, according to the authors, determines the declaration of affiliation or connection to discreet organizations or associations, in the form of reporting obligations, we are left with the perception, in our view wrong, that the regime currently in force, i.e. Law No 52 / 2019, does not provide for the possibility of declaration of affiliation or connection to discreet organizations or associations, within those reporting obligations. But the truth—in fact, recognised by the authors themselves of the initiative, as, moreover, can be found in the explanatory statement itself—is that Law No 52/ 2019 already provides for the existence of a field for the mention of activities that may generate incompatibilities and impediments. If it is true that the current regime attributes an optional nature to the mention of these activities, it is also true that this proposal maintains, in this matter, the essential at the level of this optional nature. That is, at present, this reference is optional and, with the proposal we are discussing, optional continues. So, in our view, the bill does not determine anything, what it does is to change the way to make use of that mention, which, I remember, remains optional in this NAP proposal. As for the rest, we follow the concerns of the NAP regarding the considerations and even the reasons for this proposal, but also the need to strengthen transparency in compliance with the reporting obligations of policy holders and high public positions. Despite the progress made in this area, in particular through the Code of Conduct of Members to the Assembly of the Republic, but not only the defence of transparency in the exercise of public functions is an important path and it is necessary to continue for all reasons and even a culture of democratic responsibility. A defence, in fact, which is or must be a central duty in a democratic rule of law. Therefore, in view of what is said, we have many reservations about the actual and effective contribution of this proposal to transparency which should guide the exercise of political and public positions. These reservations do not stem from the fact that the proposal enshrines an autonomous field for the negative mention of affiliation in discreet associations or organisations within the framework of the single declaration of income, wealth, interests, incompatibilities and impediments, but rather by the fact that this proposal retains the optional nature of such reference or reference. In any case, with the benefit of doubt, the Greens will not vote against this NAP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u175	I call on the ladies. Members present who have not yet had the opportunity to register to do so, so that the final verification of the quorum is carried out, although we have already had more than enough quorum. Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This NAP initiative is a contribution to a reflection that we should continue to make about the conditions that guarantee as much transparency as possible in the exercise of political positions and high public positions. I would say that this reflection is never negative, even if there is no agreement with the proposed initiatives. Of course, there are situations that need to highlight the discussion we are doing, because I believe that some of the examples given and the concrete situations brought to the debate have gone far beyond the discussion that we will have to do on the basis of the NAP proposal. Situations that constitute the practice of crimes of corruption, of trafficking in influence and others that are not the subject of this initiative. These situations will have to have a proper fight and repression from a criminal point of view, and this is where they have to be put. It is not from the point of view of transparency that one can find a response to criminal problems, to the practice of corruption and trafficking in influence, until the answer to these problems would be far beyond what the NAP initiative proposes. Obviously, this initiative would not be appropriate to combat these situations because, in criminal terms, it needed much more than the NAP proposes. What the NAP proposes is referring to another matter, which has to do with the conditions of transparency in the exercise of political positions and high public positions, which justifies an in-depth reflection. I would now like to start to clarify the wrong interpretation, which I have recorded in some speeches and which I think should be corrected. What already exists today is not an optional statement on the matters which the NAP brings here, what exists today in the declarative obligation that is already provided for in the law is a mandatory declaration. I repeat, compulsory! The completion of that framework, which already exists today, in other situations, has no optional character, is mandatory and refers to situations that may generate incompatibilities and impediments. Therefore, what exists today is the obligation to fill out a framework relating to other situations that may generate incompatibilities and impediments. What the NAP proposes does not overlap with this. What the NAP proposes may, when much, be complementary to what already exists today and which is an optional declaration of belonging to certain types of organizations, which the NAP characterizes as 'discreet', and which goes beyond incompatibilities and impediments, no longer refers only to these aspects. Therefore, it would be a statement that would allow the mention, even if negative, of affiliation or linkage to associations or organizations that require their members to provide promises of fidelity or that, through their secrecy, they do not ensure full transparency about the participation of their associates. Still, what the NAP describes as a reality to which this possibility of declaration applies is not a homogeneous reality, it is a reality, let us say, that involves two types of circumstances regarding membership of certain types of organizations. First problem we have in front of us: must the declaration be optional or compulsory? The NAP presents the possible solution, because by creating a declarative obligation on these situations, problems of unconstitutionality can hardly be overcome, which are easy to identify and which, in some opinions, in particular the Committee on Religious Freedom, have already been identified. And, being optional, the declaration has serious problems of effectiveness, which, of course, cannot fail to be considered, taking into account the objectives proposed by the NAP in its initiative. Secondly, who wants the NAP to really aim for this initiative? How are discreet associations defined?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u177	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u178	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of the examples given by the NAP, we ask whether the NAP does not allow to include in the role of organizations, since it has given some as examples, the intervention and animal rescue, by the organization and practice it assumes. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to leave one last comment, which has to do with a problem that can hardly be overcome: or there is secrecy and there is no statement, or there is a statement and there is no secrecy. From that point of view, there is a contradiction, indeed, that is inundable in the terms in which the NAP proposes this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u179	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u180	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not oppose the objectives presented by the NAP regarding the strengthening of transparency in the exercise of political and high-level positions, but we have many doubts that this initiative is no longer a Better — it does not do well or bad — even if there is a lot to be done to achieve more transparency. We are available for the debate if, eventually, it happens in the field of specialty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u181	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I should like to say, in this regard, that the objective of transparency and the objective of making clear the existing links and obligations is a laudable objective and, therefore, our position of principle is that everything that can contribute to greater transparency and clarity deserves our support and agreement at the outset. And with an assumption that is very obvious and that has gone through the discussion here: transparency, more than protecting institutions and more than reassuring public opinion, protects itself, because it makes clear the type of obligations, bonds and what each one of us has. Those who have nothing to hide should not, in fact, hide. Having said this, it is clear that the proposal has some problems, as soon as it starts to realize what organisations these are, who this applies to and in what circumstances. Do organizations themselves assume that they are secret or discreet? It's just that they can say they're not. And from there on, I wonder how we solve the problem. The PAN, by the voice of Mr André Silva, addressed this issue to the Masonry. But, Mr President, who is part does not say, as it is obvious, precisely by the secret nature; who is not part, as is my case, does not know very well what is going on in there, precisely by the secret nature. We are therefore faced with a problem that is not easy to solve, and in my case — eventually, I cannot even say this, but it is true, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo — or in the kitchen... [[CH, IL and PSD Members' rice.]] I am particularly pleased to say that not even in the kitchen use avental—unfortunately, but it is even a lack of talent. In fact, I've tried and it didn't work out. Then there are other questions to point out. This proposal also does not best achieve the objective to which it is proposed. Why? Because, in other words, if it were compulsory, as was said here. If it is not mandatory, it does not completely solve the problem either. More: what is the nature of organisations? What about the other associations? What about clubs, environmental associations, animalists, sports, solidarity? Are they staying out? It is not very obvious either. There is also something else that I wanted to make clear: for us—and, yes, it would be unconstitutional—that cannot be involved in this matter, under any circumstances, religious organizations. It is an improbable frontier, because it is in the Constitution, and historically, it perceives why. Asking people to profile themselves or not a particular religion is unacceptable, including historically, regardless of the confession or religion to which they belong. So, in this case, there is a border. On the other hand, the negative statement causes us some confusion. That is, am I, whose statement I have just made — my party and club memberships are known, and I no longer have — am I obliged to declare that I have no affiliation with organizations or associations? It doesn't make much sense to me, so I have some doubts. In conclusion, we still find that the initiative is commendable and allows a debate that is important and relevant. And let it be very clear here that it will not be by the CDS that this initiative will not have approval and will not reach the specialty. For us, this initiative must be approved and reach the specialty, so that we will try to clear these doubts, edges and difficulties and arrive at a solution that is consensual and brings more transparency. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u183	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate for which we were called today, through the draft law presented by the NAP, is indeed important in the context of what should be the way in which parliamentary institutions and other public institutions view transparency. It is often said to me, even that I am famous for being those who want to go too far in transparency and, sometimes, "I take the lead" of my parliamentary group — I think it is no shame to say it, because we do not all agree with the level of extension to which it comes in certain matters, so I can certainly pull from a few gallons to say that it should not be confused, as Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has well said, transparency and voyeurism. On fundamental rights, it is necessary to identify — and that is what it is — clearly when we operate restrictions and when we introduce them into the law and, more importantly, it is important to know history, it is important to know the impact of the symbology that we put on the initiatives we do. Strange way this is to celebrate the bicentennial of constitutionalism, under the attentive gaze of Manuel Fernandes Tomás, an obsession of mine in this House. It is not only Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo who commends the Liberals of 1820, I also think that we owe them the construction of democracy and liberalism, the construction of constitutionalism, the construction of the Republic. In fact, the iconography we can see in this Chamber is not beyond the options we take and see in legislative initiatives. In fact, the NAP presents us with an initiative on secret or ‘discreet’ associations. Mr André Silva — I would call him José Cabral, but correct me in time — when he spoke, he clearly noted what he identified as the fundamental objective of his initiative, which is the Masonry, having placed on the table arguments that can be accrual to transparency, how we know whether external links to parliamentary function, or to any political function, should or should not be scrutinized. But as has already been said in this House by many Mr. Members, if the aim is to put everything on the table — all and any affiliation, any possible source of interference with the exercise of the parliamentary mandate — then this initiative clearly fails. I wonder where the references to club membership are, so often translator of much greater irrationality, so often translator of a much greater conflict of interests, so often translator of what is worse than Portuguese society has, in contrast, eventually, with institutions, they have good or bad people — they all unfortunately have, and without excessive anthropological pessimism — whether they are more 'discreet' or less 'discreet', whether they are parties, whether they are institutions of civil society, whether they are religious confessions. All of them suffer the same evil. Therefore, if the point is precisely this, that of everything must be absolutely transparent and have to be at the moment when public functions are exercised, without any limit, without any restriction, then that assumes consistently that same and proposes something that is not a violation of the principle of equality, pointing the finger specifically to a certain location, which, of course, will not be free of criticism, as are not the various institutions that we find here. What we read in the explanatory statement of the initiative under discussion is, in fact, an attempt to build an argumentary, which, although it seems solid, is not in reality. Incompatibilities and impediments are mentioned when, in fact, what we have on the table is conflicts of interest, because, as Mr. João Oliveira has pointed out, there is already a mandatory field for incompatibilities and impediments. If that is not what Mr André Silva wants, because he does not want to ban anything, then what is at stake here is a matter of transparency but at the level of conflict of interest. And if the conflict of interest exists, it is also mandatory that, before any intervention in plenary or voting, the Member concerned must identify that conflict of interest. So it doesn't bring anything again. The NAP invoked and designed positions on the screen during its intervention of distinguished people who have already expressed themselves in the past on this matter, such as those of my comrade Antonio Arnaut, who was Grand Master of the Great Lusitian East and who gave notice of the obligation to voluntarily introduce this affiliation. But let us not confuse the positions referred to by several people, mentioned here by the honourable Member, about the ethical imperative of each one to give notice of what seems relevant to him about the exercise of his mandate, with the creation of an obligation, to make the law appear a little strange, since it is a voluntary obligation and yet it is different in the plan, again, from the invasion of what may be the private sphere. It is then referred to legislation on the members of the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, which must make a statement of all the associations of which they are members and not specifically only of some. And why? in this context, in view of the immense sensitivity of the topics discussed, in view of the fact that it is essential to preserve that function, it is understood that the balance of powers is another and for that function, for that protection, it was meant to create this concrete example of a declaration and an obligation identified by all. Indetermination of the concept is another problem. What is “discreet ”? What's secret? How can we guarantee, now not equality, proportionality in the way this restriction takes place? Is she suitable? Is it able to solve the objectives to which it is proposed? Can she be clear and determined? Is she reasonable? We have grave doubts about it. Finally, we have the very opinion that the Committee on Religious Freedom has given on this matter, which must weigh in the way we view it. Doubts of constitutionality are not in detail, they are not only of mere detail, because, indeed, it is at stake, in those cases where religious organizations are expressly invoked, a direct attack on religious freedom and, in others, that do not concern religious organizations, has much to do with the individual consciousness of each one, with the philosophical systems to which it belongs. So, if there is a place for this invasion—and I even use this word—of the individual sphere of each one, it must be well-founded and must be well proven how it should take place. Therefore, in order to conclude in this context, in view of what is presented, and not discarding the importance that transparency is increasingly important in our day, we cannot caricature transparency, we cannot use it and discredit the effort that many make for it, with initiatives that are either harmless or at least provocative and that do not take into account the real meaning of history, having the negative meaning of pointing to certain sets of society, to certain places, in a way not ad man but ad institution. Let us look at what inspires the legislator at every moment and make a balanced decision. For these reasons we will not follow the legislative initiative presented by the NAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u185	For an intervention, Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u186	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP proposes to this Parliament the second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019, which approves the regime of the exercise of functions by holders of political positions and high public positions, in summary recommending that any holder of such positions belonging to ‘discreet’ associations, as designated in the draft law, may, if he so understands, report on this circumstance. We are therefore given a first consideration of the legal framework, because there are those who argue that the optional possibility of communication already exists in the diploma that is intended to be amended. We do not agree with this perspective, but let us be frank: even if the law already existed the possibility of optionally making such a statement, the truth is that the existence of this possibility does not clearly meet its purpose. The possibility of communication may even exist, but communication does not exist, so the legal shield to not approve this bill does not collect, because obviously we all perceive what is intended with it and we all know that it can be improved in the specialty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then go to the substantive scope of the diploma, beginning with the appreciation of its constitutionality and, in this dimension, contrary to the opinion that Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has now used, I will limit myself to quoting Prof. Jorge Miranda, whose authority in this field I believe to dispense considerations: « I see no reason to doubt the nonconstitutionality of the initiative. This is only a corollary to the general principle of transparency which must dominate political life within a pluralist and open democracy, in which nothing is to hide or hide in the public sphere of the holders of public bodies." This is the constitutional consecration of a principle of Meridian understanding: any matter that may be able to frame relevant interests or positions to judge the fairness of a public servant must, of course, be known to all. In fact, it must be said that for the PSD only makes sense the approval of this diploma if the communication that is required with it is not merely optional, but rather compulsory. You don't even realize it could be any other way! Of course, it will be possible to state that this obligation to communicate ends up contrary to the possibly secret nature of the organisations that wish to maintain themselves. That's true! But the secret nature of organizations cannot serve as a shield for its members. Prof. Jorge Miranda, in this regard, also tells us the following: "One thing is, as you well know, the right to reserve privacy of private life and another is association intimacy. It is different realities that associations freely pursue their purposes without interference from public authorities or continue to be outside the knowledge of the community." This issue seems also to be consensual in the organizations that the NAP, in its bill, selected how it might be covered by this diploma. I am sorry to mention it in its entirety because these statements were already mentioned in the intervention of the NAP, but both Antonio Arnaut and Mário Martin Gui said they were in favour of the fact that, in their organizations, the Masons should voluntarily assert themselves as such and that, without any doubt, they should manifest their quality. And also, now, Monsignor José Rafael Espírito Santo, regional vicar of Opus Dei, in his pronouncement on this same diploma, said: « The prelate of Opus Dei excludes, intrinsically, any kind of secrecy and lack of transparency». Yeah, if you do, you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what concerns might we have to pursue this path? Frankly, we do not see that hesitation or doubts can arise, because, finally, it says the popular wisdom that "who should not fear", and so it will, in fact, be for organizations with this initiative, the best and most crystallistic opportunity to fight suspicions, perhaps unfair, that may fall upon them and demonstrate the legitimate interests they pursue. In our view, this is an ethical imperative or, as Professor Jorge Miranda once again points out, "a requirement for republican ethics". So that I will end with the reflections that judges' organizations, consulted for this purpose, have made about this diploma. It says the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges: "Although the Statute of the Judicial Judges does not prohibit, as it may be, participation in such organizations, we believe that the declarative obligations of the judges should include the disclosure of their belonging to them. It is a matter of publicly revealing a condition that can, in abstract, condition the social perception about the impartiality of the judge. Do not keep on seeking. ” It says the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor : « We understand that the draft amendment under consideration may be the appropriate place for the Attorney-General of the Republic to take a decision on a possible modification of the legal regime, also applicable to the magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to defend that such a declaration, which derives from an ethical imperative, is mandatory for them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these statements are sufficient for themselves. That is why the data are released: whoever considers that it is not necessary to disclose publicly a condition which may, in abstract terms, condition the social perception on its impartiality, should of course reject this proposal; who, on the other hand, considers that the existence of this declaration should be of good transparency rules. It's obviously on this side that the PSD will be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u187	To close the debate, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I thank all the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who have made speeches. I would like to clarify a few points. On the issue of the option of compulsoryity, we challenge Parliament and all those who have challenged this option to present or improve proposals in the field of specialty. That was our choice. It seems to us a good starting point. There is concern about possible NAP members' memberships to certain associations, but they are clear and are all in our interest records, for whom you would like to consult them. The extension of this measure to other associations of environmentalists, animalists and football clubs, of course, all those associations that have purposes or activities that are not clear, because they are all distinct, should be included. Once again, we are absolutely available to, in particular, work on this matter. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves spoke at football clubs. On this point, we have put forward a proposal — you have already entered the Assembly of the Republic and you know - you know - that it is intended to create a further impediment to political office holders who also occupy positions in social football clubs. We will therefore have the opportunity to debate once again the enlargement of incompatibilities and to assist the Socialist Party in voting against it. Regarding the fallacious argument that this NAP initiative may call into question religious freedom, it seems to us that Jorge Miranda, constitutionalist and Catholic, is unsuspecting, cannot be favorable to attacks on religious freedom and does not see any violation. In fact, Mr Delgado Alves, who here has made an inside game Masonic, which reveals that he knows the world well, said recently that there are opinions that refer to this legislative initiative as unconstitutional. You must have seen and certainly consulted opinions on other legislative initiatives. There is no constitutional opinion, of any constitutionalist, regarding this NAP initiative, to speak of unconstitutionality, on the contrary, took that scenario away from the issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u189	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u190	For us, it's very clear, sirs. Members: who is not in a position to reveal the interests held by associations to which they belong, whether secret or discreet—we can fine-tune this definition in speciality—there are no conditions for the exercise of public office.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u191	Sir, I have already asked you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u192	Hearing all political parties and analyzing the parliamentary debate, we realize that the only party that would vote against this initiative is the Socialist Party. All other parties are either in favour or can be clarified in the field of specialty. Therefore, we will lower this project to specialty, because the country needs, and deserves, more ethics and transparency in political life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda with regard to debates. Let us now move on to the voting period, since we have every opportunity to start right now, as nearly 200 Members are registered. We begin with the Vote Project No. 426 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL, and MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Despite the death of PSP agent Antonio José Pinto Doce. I ask Secretary Nelson Peralta to proceed with your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Saturday, December 12, in Évora, the Public Security Police Officer ( PSP ) António José Pinto Doce, 45 years old, trying to prevent the escape of a man who assaulted his companion in the open street, was hit by the car of the aggressor and dragged about 40 meters, becoming in a very serious state. Unfortunately, due to the severity of the injuries suffered, she would die in the first hours of the next day, Sunday, December 13, leaving women and two children. Agent António Doce, who belonged to the District Command of Évora of the PSP, was not on duty, but intervened to stop the crime under way when he witnessed the attacks. Domestic violence is a public crime listed in Article 142. that of the Penal Code, unacceptable and intolerable, with which one cannot have any kind of complacency and which, despite all advances, continues to have a high incidence. Only this year have 20 people died from domestic violence. This could have been more than one, that the gesture of the Evora Traffic Team agent avoided, to the detriment of his own life, courageously opposing the still existing devaluation of violence against women. António José Pinto Doce dignified the burden that he did not wear at the time of the acts for not finding himself on duty, representing a State that does not ignore the victims of violence and people in a vulnerable situation and also demonstrating a sense of exemplary, permanent and deserving mission, therefore, of the recognition of the Assembly of the Republic, before evidence of the high risk involved in the performance of its mission by all security forces professionals and the inherent risks imponderable for their physical integrity and their own life. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Agent Antonio Doce and exalts and praises his deep sense of mission, expressing his condolences, respect and solidarity to his relatives, friends, colleagues in the profession of the Public Security Police and to the National and District Commands of that security force. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u195	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I join in this vote. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the vote that we have just taken, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 425 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees and subscribed by a PS Member ) — Greetings for the International Day of Human Rights, which will be read by Secretary Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Signing the International Day of Human Rights, proclaimed by the United Nations on 10 December 1948, also marked in Portugal, is a way of honoring all human rights defenders and repudiating all kinds of discrimination that have prevented equality among all human beings. Safeguarding human rights is a factor of development and peace, it is not possible to promote sustainable development without human dignity, so human rights are at the heart of the Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) — Agenda 2030 and its common vision for mankind. The pandemic crisis has particularly affected the most vulnerable and has exposed structural inequalities. We have seen violations of human rights and threats to freedoms and guarantees as a result of growing populist and authoritarian drifts in various locations. Migrants and refugees have in particular been the preferred victims of these narratives. People and their rights must be the absolute priority in this time of pandemic, as the Secretary-General of the United Nations said, and no one can be left behind. It is essential that human rights be protected, that climate action be strengthened and that digital transition be ensured, avoiding new exclusion sites. We all count and have a fundamental role in building a society with dignity and rights for all people. It is essential that the Beijing Platform for Action be fulfilled to ensure effective implementation of women's and girls' rights as an integral, inalienable and indivisible part of all human rights. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic marks the International Day of Human Rights and the importance of continuing to promote human rights and prevent any setbacks that call into question its fulfilment. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 652 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — To provide free COVID-19 tests to teachers, non-teachers and students. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u198	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u199	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u200	Mr President, to inform us that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u201	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 658 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the worker's activity in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring the safety and health conditions at work and the adequacy of access to the reform. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement scheme for workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No 770 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends the adoption of measures to curb the increase in structural gender inequalities triggered by the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 809 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime [ Parliamentary assessment No 32 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 810 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 92 / 2020 of 23 October amending the general waste management regime [ Parliamentary assessment No 34 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 478 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reinforces the remuneration regime of wind power plants ( Revoking Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 of 28 February ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u202	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u203	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u204	Mr President, I would like to announce a statement of vote on this last vote on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs Ana Passos, Mr André Pinotes Batista and Mr Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u205	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote, in general, on the overall speciality and finality of Bill No. 594 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Extends until 30 June 2021 the deadline for distance communication by means of meetings of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, by amending Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March adopting exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease CVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall now, in general, vote on Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We then vote in general on Bill No. 575 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Exceptional non-residential income scheme for tenants and retailers under the New Urban Rent Scheme affected in their activity by the COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 576 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Interpretation rules clarifying the application and retroactivity to the period of confinement of the suspension of the application of fixed income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No 596 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( Seventh Amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 599 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — establishes for 2021 the exceptional arrangements applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of real estate for trade and services in commercial centres. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will then vote in general on Bill No. 600 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional income payment scheme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PAN and IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 601 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 602 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarify the exceptional regime applicable to contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres for the purpose of adopting an interpretative standard in respect of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March 2020. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 603 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Extension of lease contracts for commercial purposes during the recovery period of the economy in the case of considerable turnover losses ( Third amendment to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 784 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Place the humanitarian crisis and the problem of terrorism in Mozambique in the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This draft resolution is down to 2. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 779 / XIV / 2 is hereby followed. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the mobilisation of the international community in order to prevent crimes committed against humanity in Mozambique. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] This draft resolution also goes down to 2. the Commission. We now have to vote on a request from the NAP for a discharge from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 169 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the declaration of affiliation or linkage to « discreet » organisations or associations in the form of declaration obligations ( Second amendment to Law No 52 / 2019 of 31 July ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on the Resolution Project No 573 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government act to ensure the correct energy classification and promote the reduction in the use of fluorinated gases on air conditioning appliances and their durability. [[Subject to the vote, there was a tie, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, given the draw situation, we shall proceed to a second vote of the draft resolution. [[After the vote again, the same result was found.]] Having found a new draw, the draft resolution was rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 673 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Collection and effective treatment of cooling gases of air conditioning units, refrigerators and other cold equipment. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u207	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u208	Mr. President, I just wanted to note that the discharge to the committee was dependent on the approval of both Draft Resolution Nos 573/IV/1. a ( PAN) and 673 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). As the latter has only been approved, there is no discharge to the committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u209	Thank you very much for your comment, Mr President. Therefore, the Resolution Project No. 673 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) does not fall to 11. the Commission, contrary to what had been announced. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 620 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends that the Government establish 25 September as the National Sustainability Day. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the PAN and the Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 621 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — I set up September 25 as the National Day of Sustainability. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 670 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Institution of the National Sustainability Day on 25 September. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution also goes down to 11. the Commission. The vote on draft resolution No 765 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( BE) — By extending the period of validity of the Environmental Impact Assessment of the new Lisbon airport. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 667 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends measures to mitigate emissions from commercial and cruise ships, whose emissions exacerbate the climate crisis, the environment and human health. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, ENP and non-registered MembersCristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 798 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Mitigation and control of pollution emissions from maritime transport. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 674 / XIV / 2. a (IL) — The gradual opening to the public of stadiums, pavilions and other enclosures of all modalities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, in favour of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstentions from BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote on the Resolution Project No. 759 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Review of sport practice and gradual normalisation of competitions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We are going to vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No. 783/XIV/2. a (PV) — Recommends to the Government measures to resume sports practice in the context of pandemics. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolution also goes down to 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u210	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u211	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u212	Mr President, it was only to inform us that, with regard to the vote on these last two drafts, the Socialist Party has already submitted a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u213	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote in a global final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions Nos 437 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government condition that new biomass plants be licensed to comply with strict environmental and sustainability standards 511 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Sustainable and ecological use of residual forest biomass and 531 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reform of the model and public support to be allocated to forest biomass plants on the basis of their sustainability. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions No 624 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of Snake Secondary School, 633 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate requalification of the Secondary School of Serpa, 655 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the urgent realization of works at the Serpa High School, 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Secondary School of Serpa, 681 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Urgent requalification of the Serpa Secondary School and 703 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Serpa Secondary School. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u214	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u215	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u216	Mr. President, it is only to realize that with regard to Bill No. 602 / XIV / 2. a (PAN), which we have already voted on and whose way of voting the Arrival was abstention, will bring a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u217	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta will now take care of the gentlemen. Members who were present by means not of telepathy, but of teleconference. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u218	Mr President, I am announcing the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were present by videoconferencing, in this plenary session: of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, were present Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, Mrs. Marta Freitas, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and Mr. Paulo Porto, elected by the electoral circle of Fora da Europa ; of the PSD parliamentary group, were present by Mrs. Deputy Quadrado, elected by the electoral circle of the Azores, Mrs. Sara Madruga da Costa and Mr. Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. For other reasons, Mr Jorge Gomes of the PS had been present and Mr. Mr Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Mr Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is still a need to announce the agenda for the plenary session next Tuesday, 22nd. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the session will begin at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. the first item contains an urgent debate required by the PSD under Article 72. The Rules of Procedure, on education. In the second point, there is the discussion of draft resolution No 771 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Saving the House of Alentejo. The third point follows the discussion of Petition No 642 / XIII / 4. a ( Fernando Maria Rodrigues Martins et al.) — They request the amendment of the legislation relating to the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, together with, in general, the Bills No. 521 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Change the regime of the solidarity complement for the elderly, making it dependent on their allocation of the poverty situation of the elderly rather than on the income of the children and ensuring the convergence of the reference value with the poverty threshold, 567 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of allocation of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, and 583 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Conditions of allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December ). At the fourth point, we will proceed to the discussion of Petition No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( José Manuel Rodrigues de Oliveira ) — Legal age of reform of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector at the age of 55, together with the Resolution Project No 659 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the activity of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring safety and health conditions at work, as well as access to adequate reform to the wear of the profession. The fifth point is the discussion of Petition No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( Eduardo Bernardino et al.) — Nurses: By creating an official status of rapid wear and risk allowance, together with, in general, the Bill No. 404 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to enhance and protect health professionals, and Resolution Projects Nos 785 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognizes the penosity and risk of the nursing profession and recommends that the Government take measures to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses, 786 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government set up a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear, which sets criteria for the award of this qualification and identifies an example list of professions with such qualification, 118 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of the status of the rapid wear occupation and the risk allowance to the security forces, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By awarding a risk allowance to professionals in front of the pandemic fight line, and 392 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of a professional career as health assistant. At the sixth point, we will proceed to the discussion of Petition No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens'Movement ) — By building a basic school of 2. o is 3. the basic education and secondary education cycles in Fernão Ferro, Seixal, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 260 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) and secondary in Fernão Ferro, 615 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 634 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to construct a 2 school. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the Seixal, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 643 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedures for the construction of a basic school for the 2. o is 3. the cycles and for secondary education in the Fernão Ferro parish, 646 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By building a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary in the Fernão Ferro parish, in the municipality of Seixal, and 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of a basic school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro. At the seventh point, without discussion times, the Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2 is scheduled. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of mandatory imposition of mask use in public spaces. At the eighth point, we will have a standing vote at the end of this broad agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u220	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u221	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u222	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that because of my account being blocked on the computer, I have come to the plenary to certify my presence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-18.u223	All right. Your presence is registered. Thank you very much, good weekend for everyone and until Tuesday. The plenary session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 28 minutes.]]
