ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, as the next item is the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the file she has entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very late to all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I am now announcing the legislative initiatives that have led to the entry into the Bureau. First, I refer to Law No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under urban, housing and non-residential lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. Law No. 379 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — condition the transfers of funds to the Resolution Fund to its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic and limit the allocation of variable remuneration to members of the administration and supervision bodies of the New Bank, which falls to 5. the Commission, 380 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Defines a temporary contingency regime for networks of secondary fuel management ranges which fall to 7. the Commission, 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sector ( green electricity ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 382 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, which falls to 7. the Commission, 383 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amendment to the Military Programming Act to respond to the country's priorities ( First Amendment to the Organic Law No 2 / 2019 ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 384 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore or non-cooperating offshore centres, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Excludes entities based in tax havens from any public support to the economy, 386 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Excludes companies based in tax havens from support lines within the COVID-19 pandemic, 387 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs an exceptional housing and non-residential lease regime in the case of a proven decrease in yield, 388 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Addition to List I annexed to the VAT Code with the inclusion of services provided in the physical exercise area in gyms, fitness and health clubs, which goes down to 5. the Commission, and 389 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2020 of 20 April with a view to extending the deadlines for support to families in the context of the current public health crisis. Resolution Nos 460 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional measures to support tourism in Fatima, economic recovery for the Cova da Iria, concerning the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus-COVID-19, which falls to 6. the Commission, 461 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Social and economic emergency plan for the Algarve, which falls to 13. the Commission, 462 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government suspend the payment of municipal property tax by the end of the year, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 463 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a broad assessment of urban waste management systems throughout the country, with a view to correcting the inconsistencies that compromise and may compromise the efficiency of the sector and the quality of life of populations, which falls to 11. the Commission. Mr President, he also gave the Bureau an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies as follows: the suspension of Mr João Oliveira ( PCP ), Evora's electoral circle, meets the legal requirements, being replaced by Vera Lúcia Serelha Silver, from 15 May 2020 to 21 June 2020, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would like to congratulate Mr João Oliveira. Let us therefore begin the agenda on which the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister is under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. I have the floor to put questions to Mr André Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mário Centeno has been unanimously considered a good Minister of Finance. Interestingly, he's the only member of the government who seems to be out. As Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno determined the essential of the financial policies of our country, participated in the recapitalisation of the Box, played an active role in the resolution of Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) and the New Bank and appointed the Board of Auditors of the Banco de Portugal. As a result, Mário Centeno cannot ensure the objectivity required for the exercise of the functions of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. And if there are any doubts, let us ask ourselves: how can anyone guarantee independence and impartiality in the exercise of self-assessment? Mário Centeno will have to assess and decide on the impact of many decisions he himself has taken as Minister of Finance. And that is all that is at stake, not the ethics of the person, but the lack of it in the direct leap of the Ministry of Finance to the Banco de Portugal. We therefore advocate a five-year period for those who wish to leave the Government or the commercial bank to Banco de Portugal. And, see, this option is so defensive to the point of Mr President of the Republic — no doubt! — have used an example of the dictatorship's time to legitimize this chair dance. Having said this, I ask you two questions: today you can assure us that Mário Centeno or Mourinho Félix will not be the ones chosen for the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal? And don't you see any conflicts of interest or ethical problems in these possible appointments? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u5	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u6	Mr President, Mr André Silva, allow me to disagree. There is no unanimity in the classification of Dr. Mário Centeno as a good Minister of Finance, because there are those who consider him also a very good Minister of Finance, as there are those who consider him a great Minister of Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal, I have already had the opportunity to say that when the time comes to replace the current Governor, contrary to what has been done by my predecessor, I will proceed to the hearing and consultation of all the parties represented in this Assembly of the Republic. I will, of course, have the opportunity to consider the positions of the NAP and the choice of the next Governor will be made in accordance with the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u7	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, we agree with the assessment of Prof. Mário Centeno's technical assessment, but we cannot fail to note that he sees any conflicts of interest or ethical problems in the appointment of Dr. Mário Centeno to Governor of Banco de Portugal. We know today that New Bank managers have had 75 % salary increases, despite the successive losses that have justified several injections. Public money, especially in the complicated phase that we live in, cannot be used to pay for salary increases by New Bank managers, that is to enjoy the taxpayers. Now, in view of this, will the government do something or will it continue to allow repeated ethics on the part of the New Bank? Changing the subject, the country continues to be shocked by recent cases of child violence. As we know, this social problem, unfortunately, is not limited to periods of confinement. In Portugal, four children are victims of violence per day. Violent parenting must no longer be viewed as an inevitability. unlike those who only see in punishment the answer to this scourge, it fights with different public policies from those we have had. We need efficiency and efficiency both in identifying and signaling risk situations, both in immediate and effective intervention. The failure of the State in its role as a protector and guarantor of the rights of children is, of course, manifest in the lack of human and financial resources. But the caretaker doesn't stay around. Go to the point of the national head of CPCJ ( Child Protection Commission and Youth) to know the number of technicians needed for the protection of children in Portugal. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: is the government available for the urgent strengthening of human and material resources, necessary for adequate protection of children? And if so, will this option be reflected in this supplementary budget? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u9	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u10	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, and for the New Bank, as you know by the end of 2021, cannot distribute dividends ; until June this year, you cannot pay administrators an annual remuneration that is 10 times higher than the average national wage of the Bank's workers ; and, as regards variable remuneration, the Resolution Fund has decided, with regard to the strengthening of capital, to bring down the amount of that variable remuneration to the amount that has been transferred. Secondly, with regard to the protection of minors, it is clear that we have a particular concern at this time, because, as we know — and we all have been able to verify — the closure of schools has eliminated the main element of monitoring and checking the safety of children. For this reason, complementary methodologies were adopted for the functioning of child protection committees, in particular with the creation of an own line. As for what should be the subject of the next supplementary budget, today I will try to mark hearings with all the parties represented in this House of the Republic, for the next Monday and Tuesday, so that we can discuss the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and the reflection that must also be on the supplementary budget that the Government intends to present in the Assembly of the Republic in June. So, Monday or Tuesday we will have the opportunity to talk about this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u11	Mr André Silva, of the NAP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will look forward to welcoming the NAP proposals to address child violence. Speaking of violence, I will say the following: recently, Mr. President of the Republic received representatives from one of the most violent activities of Portuguese society, the Tauromáquic sector. They want more backup! They want more extraordinary support! As if, in democracy, it was no longer absolutely extraordinary to grant support for torture and brutality. There is no money to extend extraordinary support to partners-managers, there is no money to support the true artists of our country, there is no money for the risk allowance of health or safety professionals, but the Tauromáchico sector has the waste of coming to ask for more support from the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u13	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u14	But of them, Prime Minister, we expect everything. We already have another level of conscience in the government and therefore we ask it: will it ensure that the government will maintain the responsible option not to grant extraordinary, financial or fiscal support to the Tauromachia? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u16	Mr President, Mr André Silva, as I have told you, we will have the opportunity to speak on Monday or Tuesday. however, with regard to this particular point, I can point out to you that yes, we do not intend to give any extraordinary support to this activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u17	It is now the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Two Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, to ask questions. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Mário Centeno is a great Minister of Finance and was elected by the excellent Prime Minister who is Antonio Costa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] 15 days ago, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomed the response of the strong social state to this pandemic, because we are aware that one of the consequences of this pandemic, which we have to face, is its social impact, affecting the most vulnerable, to which it urgently needs to respond. But today, Prime Minister, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants to enhance the National Health Service (SNS ), which has indeed been international reference throughout the world, which is very fair. We well know that the good results that we have come to have are undoubtedly due to the existence of a strong, prepared National Health Service, instrument to combat inequalities, with good and dedicated professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u20	What would this pandemic be if we didn't have this National Health Service? Oh, my God! We therefore welcome all who have contributed to this response, particularly health professionals, but also the government, led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa, who has not spared the means to strengthen the response to this pandemic and to save lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who wanted, and wanted, to privatize the National Health Service were wrong. They were wrong! There are those who, like us, want to continue this path of strengthening the National Health Service with more resources and improving its performance over the years. Let me remind you of the following: while the right cut EUR 825 million, we have invested more than EUR 2400 million since the previous legislation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u22	... and we continue to invest now with the 2020 budget, which will certainly be reflected in the new supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u24	The SNS was able to reinvent itself, with an extraordinary dedication of the professionals, who are in front of fighting at all levels. at this moment, it may seem easy, because, fortunately, everything went well so far, but it was necessary to ensure the existence of human resources and materials suitable to this situation, to strengthen the acquisition of medicines, individual protective equipment, diagnostic tests and even ventilators, reinforcing intensive medicine. Also telehealth and home hospitalization, which already included the Socialist Party Program, were two of the keys to success in fighting this pandemic and to avoid rupture. in fact, almost 72% of the people are being accompanied at home and at the moment we have 93 people in intensive care, finding that there is availability of beds in these critical units, although we recognize that we must continue to invest in these units, although some have only now remembered this fact, when this has been happening for more than 10 years. Between March and May 2nd this year, the number of beds in intensive care units was increased by 35 %. Let me add some more important data: Portugal is today the fourth most testing country, making about 55,000 tests per day; we had only the National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge and today we have 32 public laboratories, besides social and private laboratories;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... we acquired thousands of individual protective equipment; the entry door of the SNS, the Health Line 24, had difficulties at the beginning, with a service rate of 12 %, and today has a service rate of 98 %; the psychological counselling line has supported thousands of professionals; in the area of mental health, although we have to continue to make this effort, an action plan is being implemented; and even late payments have fallen 355 million euros. Of course, we still have many challenges to overcome, such as the reorganization of care activity, but it must be said that all that was clinically considered priority was accomplished. We must also mention what happened at the level of innovation and research, uniting the Academy, universities, politicians and hospitals, in addition to the role of the authorities and even the industry, which has begun to respond to new needs that have emerged in the meantime. A lot has happened in this country, in Portugal, which has been able to reinvent and have been able to respond to a unique, new and unknown challenge. We win and we are winning this challenge! It is not finished yet, but we are sure that we will continue to work in this direction. Mr. Prime Minister, we are sure that the road started was the right one and this plan to continue to strengthen the provision of health care to the Portuguese, I am sure, is a bet that we must continue to make. In fact, we have the lowest mortality rates in the world and our vaccination plan is also a key factor. Mr Prime Minister, we are certainly prepared for a possible new vacancy. However, with its correct view, together with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we are available to continue the path of strengthening our SNS, to better serve people, to better serve the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u26	Mr President, Mrs Hortense Martins, there is one thing that is clear: in times of distress, in times of crisis, the existence of a strong social state is even the safety and guarantee network for all. That's why everyone missed public school. That is why everyone understands the importance of strong social security and, fortunately, recapitalized over the last five years and also the National Health Service, which came out of the crisis in which it was placed during the governance of the right and which, year after year, has been strengthening and increasing its capacity to respond to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After an intense campaign that the right and its acolytes were doing about the great chaos in the National Health Service, at the time of truth, when this Service was even subject to the greatest health challenge that the country has experienced in recent decades, who responded and was able to respond was our National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is due, of course, to the enormous dedication and competence of health professionals - without them, nothing would have been possible - it was also certainly due to the enormous effort and discipline of the Portuguese to contain the expansion of the pandemic - without all the effort of the Portuguese, nothing would have been possible - but it was also due to the patient work done over the years, thanks to which, while consolidating our public finances, we were able to reinforce the financing of the National Health Service by EUR 2400 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It should not be forgotten that the State budget this year has increased the initial allocation of the National Health Service by more than EUR 900 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u28	The greatest ever increase in the initial allocation of the National Health Service! Still, when the crisis arrived, it did not lack the will and determination not only to acquire the necessary material and equipment, but also to hire more 2450 professionals, who came to strengthen the frameworks of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So when many say that it is essential to deregulation the labour market and lower taxes, what we have to say is that what this crisis demonstrates is that we even need a strong social state. That is why the Portuguese contribute to this social state, because it is at this moment of affliction that we all need it and in which we all realize that no one is left behind, no one stays at the door of the hospital, no one remains without the support that the State has to give, that society, in solidarity, has to give to all those who need it, in times of distress. That is what makes us proud of our state of democratic law and of the social state which it allowed on 25 April. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u29	Mr. Miguel Matos, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we are actually overcoming the pandemic challenge, but we are now facing an unprecedented economic and social crisis. If the virus was a symmetrical shock, the crisis that comes there will have very asymmetrical and unequal impacts, disproportionately affecting some regions, sectors, classes and also younger generations. We must meet the challenge of the moment: each of us with a responsible defination, the States with robust answers, but also Europe, which must avoid the tibia which, in the previous crisis, aborted economic recovery and infected Europe as a whole with austerity and crisis. The Portuguese have done their part and also the State. According to the think tank Bruegel, Portugal is even the second country with more fiscal stimulus and the third one that postpones tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u32	We now need answers at European level, because, interdependence, we cannot accept inequality in the capacity to respond. Yes, we need to coordinate and support each other in economic recovery. We will need to protect employment and support income, but above all we need to implement a new Marshall Plan, with public investment, to overcome the digital challenge and the climate crisis. Mr Prime Minister, it is therefore hoped that the Portuguese will await the Recovery Fund, whose proposal the European Commission will make next week. There are many issues — the dimension, as it is financed, who is most financed and even if there is conditionality. If some persist in a « frugal» and moralist logic, so inadequate in this pandemic context, we now see a light at the bottom of the tunnel with the initiative of the French President and Chancellor Merkel,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u33	Jesus!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u34	... a proposal of EUR 500 billion. It is true that it is less than 1 or 1, 5 billion euros estimated as necessary by the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), but it is EUR 500 billion real, without resorting to financial engineering and doubtful multipliers that the European Parliament, in good time, was able to refuse. It is EUR 500 billion given in grants and not lent, which would contribute to paying public finances and delaying economic recovery. Perhaps the best feature of this proposal is its targeted nature, recognizing that the regions and the most affected sectors will need greater support so that we can achieve equal response capacity across Europe. Mr President, Prime Minister, we are overcoming the pandemic challenge, but we must overcome the economic and social crisis that follows. We will need a European response to the challenge. The Franco-German initiative is, in fact, "excellent" as it was yesterday. If the Portuguese were already waiting for a European response with expectation, they are doing so boldly. We have two questions left, Prime Minister. We already realize that we do not have a leak and that we do not have an air pressure either, but will we still be able to make the Recovery Fund a bazouca? In particular, what will this initiative mean for the lives of the Portuguese people, for economic recovery, for the fight against inequalities and for the fight against the climate crisis? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u36	Mr President, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, first of all, we will not face, we are already facing an economic and social crisis, which has a very specific feature, because it is part of a global and simultaneous crisis around the world. unlike other crises, this has not touched us alone, nor has it reached only part of the world. There are no areas of refuge. We're all being hit at the same time. Obviously, the effects of this crisis are quite asymmetrical. So we have seen how even within the European Union the capacity of each State to respond varies greatly. Thus, in order to preserve the internal market, in order to preserve economic and monetary union itself, it is essential that the European Union be able to have a comprehensive response. Let no one feed the illusion that this crisis comes out alone, because either we will get out of this crisis or nobody will get out of this crisis. And, above all, those countries that benefit the most from the existence of the internal market are precisely those that must have the greatest interest in preserving the functioning of the internal market and in avoiding recession in any part of the internal market. I must say, in the interest of the truth, that unlike what happened 10 years ago, the European Central Bank, this time, was quick to react. And this has had an important effect on controlling the first threats that we can be dragged from a health crisis to a sovereign debt crisis. We must also recognise that the European Commission has been quick to react by allowing the Stability Pact to be flexible, competition rules on State aid and to launch a set of initiatives. The problem has not been in the European Central Bank, has not been in the European Commission, nor has it been in the European Parliament ; on the contrary, the problem has been in the Council. There is an important part of the decisions, which have already been exceeded, and of the three measures, of the three lines of credit defined as priority, two of them could already be implemented, the last of which was adopted at the meeting of the Eurogroup last Friday. The mechanisms for financing employment protection measures are already approved and we hope they will be available shortly. The opening of a security line in the European Stabilisation Mechanism is approved and I hope that it will be available to the States that need to use that line in the near future. A third is missing, which is the line for companies on the basis of the European Investment Bank, and this is unfortunately not yet closed. In addition to this stage of credit lines, it is essential that we have a plan — either Marshall or whatever they call it — that supports Europe's recovery and economic recovery. And this economic recovery of Europe must have very clear priorities: it has infrastructures; it has the capacity to restore its strategic autonomy, namely the reconstitution of value chains that have been relocated to other regions of the world; and it is clear that we cannot continue to be as dependent on other countries outside Europe, nor on such long distribution chains, where the risk of disruption is enormous, as it can now be seen. These priorities must be aligned with the EU's substantive strategic options, including digital transition and combating climate change, convergence and cohesion within the European Union. These fundamental options cannot be called into question; on the contrary, they must give consistency to the measures, which we now have, in response to this crisis. It is important now that there is already a broad consensus within the European Council that this Recovery Fund, first of all, exists within the next multiannual financial framework, i.e. in accordance with these rules and not with rules other than the multiannual financial framework ; secondly, it is called for urgent intervention within the next two, three years and that it is already financed by a joint debt issue by the European Union - is a step in the greatest reach; thirdly, it is distributed not on the basis of loans to States, increasing its indebtedness, but, as is the case with the multiannual financial framework, on the basis of transfers, as is usually the case with Community funds. The Franco-German proposal is therefore an excellent proposal to move forward in the right direction. We still have many questions for which we have to answer and, above all, we still have to overcome the resistance of four countries blocking a Council decision. But what is essential is that in the midst of this difficult crisis the European institutions — the European Central Bank, the European Commission and the European Parliament — have met the needs of Europe. The Council must be at that point and four countries cannot paralyze the majority will of 23. We must be able to move forward. That is what is necessary and that is what we have to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u37	To put questions, Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, the New Bank, which originally had another name, which, if you recall, was the « good bank », in the words of Banco de Portugal, between 2014 and its sale in 2017, received EUR 4, 9 billion. Even so, at the time of the sale in 2017, the government committed itself to a ceiling of more than EUR 3, EUR 9 billion for the case of the New Bank to discover hidden inequalities — this in an appropriate and beautiful language here, for the Assembly of the Republic, that outside the people does not perceive, but that I will say in a way that the people understand — in case there are more hidden calotes than those that had already been discovered. And so in 2017, the government transfers EUR 792 million to the New Bank ; then, in 2018, it transfers more EUR 850 million ; and, for 2019, about 15 days, plus EUR 850 million. in all, of the taxes of the Portuguese, this gives more 2, 1 billion euros to the New Bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u39	Loans!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u40	... which received 3000 million from the Resolution Fund. But, of that value, 2, 1 billion are taxes of the Portuguese. If at 2, 1 billion we add up the 4, 9 billion that has already received the tax invoice presented to the Portuguese by the New Bank is EUR 7 billion. Allow me to refer here to something which, I think, must be said in public: all this without justice had the ability to judge and much less punish whoever it is in what is the biggest white collar crime in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] in this framework, Mr Minister for Finance said that the last EUR 850 million we had to pay — end point, paragraph! And even those who believe that an audit is needed to assess whether or not the EUR 850 million should be or should be held accountable, in the words of the Minister. I must say that I do not agree with the Minister. I don't agree, why... do we have to pay? Oh, my God! But why do we have to pay? We have to pay, if it's due. If it's not due, we don't have to pay. So we have to pay, if it's due. [[PSD applause.]] And after EUR 7 billion it is good to measure whether, indeed, it is due. Therefore, in view of the statement made by the Minister for Finance, it must be — the final point. The Portuguese — I and all Portuguese — now have a doubt about whether the government actually paid the bill presented to it by the New Bank. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] And checking the invoice means that there are or are no credits from the New Bank sold completely to the wreckage? Is there or is there any parities — calotes, in saying from the Portuguese —, empolated, to receive more money from the State? How is it that in the reviews of the New Bank, visas and reviews, in 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019, by the Banco de Portugal, by the auditors, by the CMVM, each year discover new inequalities that have not been discovered in the previous year despite the balances being fully audited? This obliges you to watch carefully what is being done. [[PSD applause.]] How can we accept that the New Bank may be selling buildings below the value of the balance sheet when they are placed on the balance sheet in a period prior to the rise of the real estate market? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u41	How is it possible that the real estate market is rising and yet the New Bank sells at lower prices than those recorded in the balance sheet? [[PSD applause.]] By the way, it was also good to know who these credits and buildings are being sold to. We have heard the shareholders... we have not, indeed, heard, we know that the shareholders want to give EUR 2 million prizes to the Board of Directors of the New Bank. These EUR 2 million will certainly not reward profits, because the Bank only damages, and no losses were imposed. I believe that the 2 million want to reward the effective way in which the Board of Directors of the New Bank has managed to extract money from Portuguese taxes. Probably that's what they want to reward. [[PSD applause.]] The Bank’s Board of Directors plays its role — that is its role — and the Government must also play its role, which is to assess the reasonableness of this payment. in this framework that I have here, I have two direct questions to ask Mr. Prime Minister. First question: Is the government sure that there are no credits from the New Bank sold to waste? Second question: is the government sure that there are no New Bank buildings sold at a favour price? Third question: Does the government know who these credits and buildings are being sold to? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u42	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u43	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, on the management of BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and on the resolution process, I am not going to take a decision because my opinion is known. If the honourable Member has doubts, there will certainly be those in your party who will be able to inform you more accurately. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What we know is that the state that the Bank arrived in 2017 was well measured by the interest that its sale has sparked on the market. There was only one interested person and, however, he only agreed to buy on condition that the Resolution Fund would guarantee him the payment of several inequalities that were suspected to exist and that were not verified. What the Government sought to do under these conditions, which is to have a deadline to sell the Bank, on the ground that it was settled at a time when it was essential to stabilize the financial market so that it would look in another way at the interest rate of the Republic — as in fact it was found from the sale of this Bank and finally, when there was only one interested person and all the others had expressed themselves uninterested — was to set a ceiling on the responsibilities of the Resolution Fund. And that is what was done by setting the ceiling of EUR 3900 million as a ceiling for responsibility for the Resolution Fund. Secondly, the Resolution Fund, as you know, is financed by the banks. Since the banks had not yet set up the necessary funds for the Resolution Fund, it was necessary for the State to grant a loan. It is this loan that is agreed between the State and the Resolution Fund and has since 2017 been corresponding to payments in accordance with the terms of the Resolution Fund. From November 2015 onwards, 32 % of the injections in the New Bank resulted from the State loan, 13 % from the contributions of the banking sector and 55 % from private investments, from LME ( Liability Management Exercise ) to senior obligations and the operation that was based on the sale of the New Bank. In other words, from November 2015 until today, of the capital injected into the New Bank, only 32 % is the result of the State's loan. He will say : « Good, but no one believes this loan is loan, because it is a very long-term loan ». It's true, it's a very long-term loan. But there's one thing that yields every year, which is the interest payment of that loan. And so far, the State has already received EUR 500 million in interest payments from the Resolution Fund. If you ask me this: 'But do you think, Prime Minister, that this is a wonderful situation? Not at all! I would really say, Mr President, that this is a very bad situation. It is a bad situation resulting from the Bank's private management process, the resolution process and how this process was conducted until its sale in 2017. It's true! The question we have to ask is: if we hadn't sold in 2017, would we have been better or worse off with the Bank resolved?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u44	That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u45	Mr President, I do not want to comment on what my predecessors say, but, as far as we have done, I have no doubt that for the Bank, for the Portuguese economy, for the country's external image, the sale, as was done in 2017, was the best possible agreement with what we were selling. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You really ask a question, 'When you pay the Resolution Fund, are you sure what you are paying? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, we know that, first, we paid the EUR 850 million entered into the State budget and approved in the Assembly as the amount to be paid this year and, secondly, the accounts of the New Bank for 2019 were audited, firstly, by the official auditor, who is Ernst & Young, who audited the accounts, secondly, by the follow-up commission designated by the New Bank, which integrates Dr. José Bracinha Vieira and the Bank of the Order of Official Auditors, and which, thirdly, were also audited by the verifier, who is Oliver Wyman. So there were these three checks. As for the inequalities and whether or not they exist, who has responded to this question is the supervisor of the New Bank, i.e. the European Central Bank. It is the European Central Bank that has acknowledged these inequalities and that has often imposed them. And it is in this framework that the Resolution Fund accepts the amount of capital injection to be made, that this year was more than EUR 1000 million, and that part of it is for the State to lend to the Resolution Fund of EUR 850 million. In addition, we expect everyone to be very healthy so that we can be here and to confirm that the banks are all going, as is their duty, to pay to the Resolution Fund the loan that the State has made and that the State is duly reimbursed for these advances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u46	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u47	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact it is technically a loan, but, as it is said on my land, it is to pay « when the chickens have teeth », i.e. 40 years from now. I will never see any payments and I am in doubt if my children or grandchildren will see any payments. The fact that the money is entered in the State budget does not mean anything. It could be captivated, for example, as many other words are captured by Minister Mário Centeno. But Mr. Prime Minister, in his reply to me, he couldn't tell me you're sure that there are no credits sold for the wreckage. He has not given me the explanation, nor can he give it, because no one can explain how, in a scenario where the market is up — everything rising, rising, rising — they can sell even below what they recorded in the balance sheet. But I have three more questions to ask you — two and one, which is more important than the others. The answer to the others I put to him I almost knew, because it's so impossible what happened that I almost know the answer, but the answer to these I don't really know, so I would like to ask him the questions. First question: do you know, by chance, whether sales have been made on a normal basis or whether they have been made by offshore jurisdiction? Second question: in view of what is happening, it may also be good to know whether those to whom they are selling have any direct or indirect connection with the shareholder or the shareholders. Don’t you think it’s important to know this? I think it's relevant. But the most important question comes next. Mr Prime Minister, we are in the House of People's Representatives, we have all been elected to represent the people, we have an obligation to make democratic supervision of the Government as it should be, particularly in this case, I repeat, in an invoice that is already worth EUR 7 billion. For the Portuguese to understand better what this means, the whole public investment in one year of this government is EUR 4 billion, and we are talking about EUR 7 billion. I ask you, Prime Minister: is the Government available to provide the Assembly of the Republic with the documentation that supports the inequalities that the New Bank claims and that justify the EUR 850 million that the State paid 15 days ago? This is the fundamental question. Can the Assembly of the Republic make such a verification, which, according to the Prime Minister, has already been done by other entities? Can we, as representatives of the people, do this without, of course, being through a committee of inquiry? We're talking about an absolutely normal relationship. That was the question I wanted to ask you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u48	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u49	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, the New Bank is neither public nor the State manages the New Bank. Second, the State does not supervise the New Bank, it is supervised by the European Central Bank. Third, the State does not audit the accounts of the New Bank, which, as I explained, were audited by the official auditor, which is Ernst & Young. The Resolution Fund has a follow-up committee composed of two persons whom you know well and whom you can ask all the questions, which are Dr. José Bracinha Vieira and the Board of Official Accountants' Board of Auditors. In addition, there is also the verifier, Oliver Wyman. And it is this set that makes the audit of the accounts, which are verified by the Resolution Fund. One of the things these auditors have to check is whether there are sales to related parts. You have an obligation to control that. What is the role of the Government?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u50	It's money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u51	When the Resolution Fund receives all of these audits and recognises the existence of the validity of capital reinforcement needs if we are still at the limit of what has been contracted and, in the face of inequalities recognised by the European Central Bank, the Resolution Fund requests the Government to make a loan to the Resolution Fund State. That is the intervention we have. If you want to get this documentation, I have only one advice to give you: you have to ask who has it. And who has that information? It is the auditors or the Resolution Fund, and it is that entity that should request the documentation it considers necessary. for our part, we can't tell you any more. In view of the verification that the Resolution Fund makes of the capital needs, in all these audits, asks for the loan and we, up to that limit and verified those conditions, the only thing we have to do is grant the loan. That's it. But this documentation, which I understand that you are very interested in knowing, can and should ask for it from those who are entitled to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u52	It is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To put questions to Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor of Mrs. Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u53	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, let me start by recording the very fine self-criticism that the PSD makes on the creation of the Resolution Fund. It is unfortunate that they have followed the criticisms that the Left Block did so late, but I must also say one thing: in order to be consistent with the criticisms they are now making, they could, for example, have approved the Left Block proposals submitted for this State budget that no capital injection would be made without being approved in Parliament. Thus, self-criticism sounds a little and even, if I may, a little hypocritical. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to tell you about the New Bank. in fact, I believe that the problems in the failure to communicate with Minister Mário Centeno are not only about the date of injection, but also about the amount. Mr Prime Minister has just said that the amount was approved in this Parliament in the State budget. Mr Prime Minister will know that the State budget does not approve the injections, but there is a capacity, an authorization given to the Ministry of Finance. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u54	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u55	It's just looking at the paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u56	Do you know how much the Ministry of Finance had said during the discussion of the State budget that would eventually inject it into the New Bank if necessary? Six hundred million euros. He just injected EUR 850 million! Therefore, the Ministry of Finance does not comply with either what it brought from the State Budget or the political guarantee of the existence of a public audit to the accounts before a new capital injection. Mr. Prime Minister, it's good that we don't confuse the data of the problem we have. It is true that there is a follow-up committee, we know that, and it is also true that the bank accounts are audited — all banks have been audited, particularly those that have been resolved. But the Chairman of the Committee on Follow-up — who is supposed to be composed of three people but currently has only two, and he cannot even have the third person — came to Parliament and said that, finally, there are only two people and there are credits that have never been dealt with on media issues! Therefore, the Chairman of the Monitoring Committee says that yes, there are complicated issues of credits that have never been resolved on media grounds, which is at least strange. And he said more: he said that whoever refers to the value of the assets is the bank itself and then the auditor hears what the bank has already said. Therefore, those regular audits that we are talking about basically consist of saying amen to the assessment that the New Bank makes of its own assets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u58	It is to know this that the Government, in March 2019, made a very important decision: it asked for an audit and said it was an essential audit to know how these credits were being managed and how the use of the guarantee given by the State to the New Bank, of this loan that it makes to the New Bank, paid on « day of being never afternoon »! The government said at the time, and well, that the audit was indispensable and Mr Prime Minister said here, and on 22 April, that the audit would be completed in July and that it was essential for the decisions that had to be taken. And on May 8, he repeated that without the audit result there would be no reinforcement of the loan. I don't want to talk to you about communication failures, because I don't think it's worth it, but you have to understand what's changed. How is an audit now indispensable? More: then, will the results of the audit have consequences? For example, if the audit confirms that it was wrong to sell real estate to the King of the Chickens with a discount of 67 %, a business with a loss of 11 million euros, will the State then ask the New Bank to return the money that was made public because of this damage? When the audit gets known, how is it? If the New Bank has been mismanaged, will we get the money there? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u59	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u60	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, as the State is several figures, it is appropriate to distinguish between these figures the different actors. If « State » refers to the Resolution Fund, which is the one that has actually made the capital injections in the New Bank, I have no doubt that if one day the audit comes to say that the bank has made management failures that justified the injections that have been made, the Resolution Fund has all the legitimacy to act in order to recover the money it has disbursed and that it did not have to disburse. I am also mistrusted that the Resolution Fund is ultimately financed by the other competing banks of the New Bank, and the other banks are not properly available to finance the mismanagement of the New Bank. with regard to the government, the role of the Government here is not to inject money into the New Bank, but to lend money to the Resolution Fund. That's what we do, lend money to the Resolution Fund. If, then, the money that the Resolution Fund has injected into the New Bank has been misinjected and this happens again in the audit, the Resolution Fund will certainly have to withdraw from there the necessary ions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u61	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u62	Mr President, Prime Minister, I do not know whether the other banks will or will not finance mismanagement, but one thing is certain: the Resolution Fund is financed by the State, the money that the State places in the Resolution Fund accounts for the deficit and, in fact, the State has not been willing to finance mismanagement because it put the money there without the audit that it said it wanted to be made before it was put there. And, in fact, the New Bank even affords itself the luxury of promising future bonuses to its administrators. Therefore, if the Government wants to have any capacity to include decency in this business, I would say that the minimum to be done was that the Government asked the Socialist Party to approve the Left Block project to prohibit future bonuses to New Bank managers and to force any injections to be voted on here in Parliament with all the transparency that deserve public accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, this is a long crisis, with long, devastating effects, a crisis in which, one day to the other, entire families have lost their income, entire sectors of the community, not only in Portugal as in the various countries, which means that the effects are even tremendous. A lot of people feel they don't have anywhere to turn. That is why decisive, urgent, robust and strategic public intervention is needed. It is necessary to look at emergency measures and to ensure that no family loses their home and access to essential goods, that there is no lack of food at any table and that neither employment nor wages are lacking. next week, a government action to support companies will be regulated, largely lost, by each worker returning from layoff to active life. When the layoff measures were included, the precarious workers were left behind and, often, the long-term employees saw their contracts ended and were left with nothing. I wonder whether this time, in support of companies, the State will protect precarious workers and whether the government will require the extension of contracts in the long term. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u63	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, pursuant to Rule 132. that of the State Budget Act for this year, it is very clear that the amount of which payment is authorized is EUR 850 million, since it is established that any payment above that value implies the approval of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u65	What was the forecast?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u66	Therefore, there was intervention by the Assembly of the Republic in fixing the amount authorised and it was also expected that if this amount was exceeded it would have to be approved in the Assembly of the Republic. This is what I repeat from Article 132. that of the State Budget Act. As far as bonuses are concerned, I have already had the opportunity to say that the Resolution Fund has cut the amount corresponding to them, precisely in the request for capital reinforcement, because it does not recognise that they could take place. In addition, as you know, these bonuses cannot be paid within the time limit provided for in the law. As far as economic and social stabilization measures are concerned — I have not had the opportunity to answer Mr André Silva's question recently — on the next Monday and Tuesday we will be promoting a working meeting with all the parties represented in the Assembly of the Republic. I don't know if the day and time of that meeting are already on the left block, but I know what the proposal is. But these meetings will be marked through the channels themselves. The aim is, on the one hand, to be able to assess all the measures that need to be taken into account in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and to promote their translation into the supplementary budget that the Government will present next month in the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday, we will have, I hope, plenty of time to address not only these support as a necessary set of support for both companies and for the employment and income of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u67	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u68	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if I may, Parliament approves maximum limits do not require payment. And the government was not obliged to spend much less without an audit. Nor does the idea of future bonuses in a country that is unable, even, to pay risk subsidies to health professionals and others who are currently in the front line and who need even that justice is done in their careers and wages. Mr Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about precariousness and ask you a question about something we do not understand and that seems surprising to us. One of the sectors that was immediately affected by the crisis was the cultural sector and I would like to know if, by any chance, the government cut the budget appropriations for the cultural institutions, particularly for the Serralves Foundation and for the House of Music and others. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u69	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u70	Mr President, Madam Member, we have not cut any money in support of any cultural institution, particularly those mentioned above. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u71	Mrs Catarina Martins, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u72	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, then perhaps it is time for the government to act on these board of directors. As you know, these institutions have most of their budget through the State budget. The portion of ticket revenue and display sales is relatively small, but they cut wages at 100 %. Question: how is it that an institution which is being financed by the State budget, such as the House of Music, financed by EUR 10 million, cuts the wages of its precarious workers to 100 % when it has so far had a loss of 5 %? Or how did the Minister of Culture go to the Serralves Foundation on Museums Day and not ask the workers who were fired, dismissed, and who are with zero euros of salary and zero support right now?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u74	Does the Prime Minister accept that we are paying institutions with money from the State budget and that these then fire the workers and pay them nothing? Well, I know there's a big mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u75	Mrs. Deputy, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u76	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. There is a fundamental mistake, Mr Prime Minister, because these institutions have the workers as precarious, the false green receipt, and they should not have, but it is unacceptable that this mistake should join the other, to cut 100 % of the wages when the State continues to pay them. in the cultural sector, 98 % of professionals saw their activity cancelled.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish. He's already exceeded his time in more than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u78	I conclude, Mr. President. There are people starving and, unlike tourism, restaurants or others, in which there are special programmes, for this sector the government has not yet presented any concrete support measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u80	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, does not lead to harm, but the mistake of perspective is even that of the Member of Parliament not asking the Government for what the government is dependent on but for what others, third parties, do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u81	Oh, okay!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u82	Mr Catarina Martins, I will tell you what the government has done to respond to one of the sectors most seriously affected by this situation. First, we created an emergency support line for the arts sector, which began with a value of EUR 1 million, which was already raised to € 1,700 000, whose results were approved on May 13th, and will be subject to contractual and payment from this week. Secondly, support measures have been adopted for workers in the cultural sector, which are covered by all the measures we have taken for self-employed people. With regard to DGArtes ( Directorate-General for Arts), the opening of the first support contests will still take place during this month of May, with a total allocation of €2,800 000. The measures to support cinema—and when I speak in cinema I do not mean the rooms, but rather the production of cinema— were all realized. A working group was also set up to study the working conditions of careers contributing to artists, authors and performance technicians in order to create an intermittent worker protection regime, as exists in several European countries, and that once again it was essential to have effective support in these crisis situations. Therefore, Mrs. Member, we have not been distracted from the culture sector either and have sought to respond to your needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u83	To put questions by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u84	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this is a time of worsening injustice and inequality, a time of asymmetry, it is said. Workers are affected by the effects of the epidemic and the exploitation they make of it, they are subject to unemployment, wage cuts, brutal deregulation of schedules. at the same time when multinational companies with millions of euros of profits are appropriated from public money, particularly using layoff, a large proportion of workers have broken their wages and many, with precarious links, in experimental period or working day or hour, have been left without any means of subsistence, as happens in Martifer and the Industrial Complex of Sines. It is necessary — and the CFP will propose — to create and implement, urgently, a social benefit of extraordinary support to all those who have been left without any means of subsistence and who do not receive an answer in current support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u86	Health and safety conditions at work are a fundamental aspect, as many workers are exposed to high-risk situations. over the past few months, many health workers, civil protection, security forces, other sectors of central administration and local authorities, among others, have been rightly welcomed, but this is not enough nor the problem is solved with premiums, because workers need the value of their wages and careers and also need the subsidy of insanity, penosity and risk to be finally applied in the public sector and in the private sector. For the Public Administration, it has been approved by law for many years and lacks regulation. Mr Prime Minister, when do these regulations apply? When will workers who have worked at risk during this epidemic and who have a permanent risk activity be entitled to this benefit? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u87	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u88	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all with regard to layoff, I would like to tell you that only 0, 3 % of all supported companies are large companies. The overwhelming majority of supported companies are micro-enterprises, especially the trade and restoration sectors, which, as you know, was one of the most brutally affected by this crisis. As we had said, we strengthened the means of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) in order to strengthen its inspection activity in the following way: 41 trainee inspectors began to perform functions, 80 new inspectors began their internship on May 18 and proceeded to the request of about 68 inspectors and 4 senior inspectors of other inspection services. With this, the Labour Conditions Authority has already carried out around 290 inspections specifically on Layoff issues and will shortly initiate a new national action aimed objectively at these situations. overall, in the last few weeks, ACT conducted 4900 inspection processes and made 4000 visits, inspecting 2300 companies, covering a total universe of 140 000 workers. This effort is essential because we have no doubt that, at the moment, they are the most fragile ones most exposed to the effects of the crisis. In fact, the crisis is not the same for all. It begins to be equal in the risk of being infected with the virus, but the effect of the virus is not the same for all. It is not the same according to pre-existing health conditions, it is not the same according to the conditions of digital accessibility for children who stay at home and who have, or not, digital access, is not the same according to health establishments where they are treated, it is not the same in working relationships. In fact, inequalities are accentuated in times of crisis. Once again, this has happened and that is why we need to strengthen the control measures. With regard to the set of measures to be taken, as Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr André Silva have already said, I am now telling the CFP that between Monday and Tuesday we will have — I hope! — the necessary meetings with all the parties with parliamentary seats to, after the emergency stage at which it was necessary to respond, see what measures we must now take at the stage of economic and social stabilization, so that we can then prepare the plan for the recovery and recovery of the Portuguese economy. For now, at this stage of economic and social stabilization, it is very important that we make a joint assessment of the necessary measures. The needs are multiple and the means, as always, are finite, so we have to apply well and they have to be evaluated as a whole. This will necessarily have to be translated into the supplementary budget which we will have to bring to the Assembly of the Republic next June. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u89	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope you will not forget those who have lost everything and those who have lost much. Mr Prime Minister, there are many concerns about the situation created by thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The Government says that it is well aware of the situation and that the necessary measures have been taken, but Mr Prime Minister, what we have come to see is another reality. Many of the measures announced are full of loopholes where they fade away and disappear the measures announced, and they are authentic work clauses that nullify and remove their effectiveness. in fact, whenever a measure for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is advertised, we find a point, a number or an article in the law to serve as a brake and to leave hundreds of thousands of companies out of the measures. This is the case with the general brake on bank debts and defaults. For example, in relation to the aid to bookstores, it was soon established that it was only for those who were collective people, i.e., leaving out hundreds of them that are companies in the individual name. Decree-Law No 20 - G / 2020 of 14 May laying down a system of incentives for the adaptation of business activity to the context of the disease COVID-19, hereinafter referred to as the ADAPTAR Programme(... ), as soon as set out in Article 6 ( 1 ( b ). what companies have to have organized accounting, i.e. leaving out thousands of companies that have legally — legally! — simplified accounting. this year, the generality of micro and small businesses will be damaged. So they won't pay IRC. But it insists on charging for cash that does not have a penny. And companies that manage, in a brutal race of obstacles, to overcome the counter of the Tax Authority, the social security counter, the counter — and what a time this counter has! — its bank, the mutual guarantee counter, etc. Then they're waiting, without the money coming to them. Or at the end of a month, they have arrived from the bank: « In view of the high demand recorded in the line of support for the economy, we must inform us that the specific lines will be suspended ». Mr. Prime Minister, or we move forward with other answers, or there will be a gigantic world of micro and small businesses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u92	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the figures are very clear: the generality of the companies that have accessed the layoff are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; the generality of the companies that have even access to the credit lines are also micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. There are a set of programmes that are specific and exclusively dedicated to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. 15 days ago, the big doubt was that of the famous delay in paying the layoff. I believe that this issue is clarified and overcome. All those who submitted valid requests until 10 April had payments until 30 April and all those who submitted applications until 30 April were paid until 15 May. The situation is thus regularized, despite the enormous increase in work requested by social security officials, who have responded promptly. Secondly, on the whole of the credit lines, there is indeed a situation that deserves and needs to be clarified, which is the huge disparity between the amounts already approved by the mutual guarantee company in relation to State guarantees and the small value of the amounts already effectively contracted by banks. The problem is not in the overall amount of the credit line. It is that the credit line has EUR 6, EUR 9 billion right now. The mutual guarantee company has already approved guarantees above EUR 5 billion. And what is hired by the banks is not up to EUR 2 billion. Therefore, the problem is not in the approval by the mutual guarantee society. The problem is, at a point that I don't know what it is, in the relationship between the bank and its customers. There will be customers who have been asked to borrow caution, because they were afraid of what would happen to them...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u93	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u94	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u95	...and, at this moment, aren't they realising? Have there been banks that wanted to promote the refinancing of some of their customers, offering credit that they were not requesting? There is something that effectively requires clarification, which is why there are already more than EUR 5 billion of guarantees approved and there are still just over EUR 1500 million of contracts concluded between banks and companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u96	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u97	That's what it was interesting to know to realize what you're failing in the mechanism of these lines of credit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u98	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u99	Mr President, Prime Minister, I don't believe it was just the PCP receiving emails from small and medium-sized entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u100	It wasn't just PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u101	It was the generals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u102	... so that we can substantiate this intervention. But, Prime Minister, when it was proven that the unreplaceable role of the National Health Service was recognized in response to the epidemic outbreak and it was proved that it was the only entity capable of guaranteeing the right to health of Portuguese people, we found that a great operation is under way by the economic groups that are engaged in the disease business and against the SNS. The pretext of delays in the treatment of other pathologies is to be positioned to keep thousands of surgeries, diagnostic examinations and treatments recovered. What is required today is not to question the capacity of the SNS in responding to the needs of the people in the provision of care, but to strengthen it financially, in the number of professionals and equipment. It was for this purpose that the CFP presented an emergency plan to strengthen the SNS, of which we highlight, among other things, the following measures: immediate strengthening of 25 % of the health budget for 2020; recruitment of professionals lacking in services and their professional, wage and career development; ending with the precariousness of working relationships; increasing the number of adult beds and intensive care; rapidly initiating the training of specialists for all who are able to start these specializations; and strengthening the public health structure, as it was shown to be fundamental in combating the virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u103	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u104	I shall finish, Mr. President, with a misunderstanding. I know this doesn't have a lot of regiment coverage, but, Prime Minister, is it not a concern of EUR 850 million for the New Bank? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u105	Mr Cecilia Meireles now speaks on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, since you said, in relation to the credit lines, that you have so much to talk about — and unfortunately, for most companies, you just have to say, because the money has not yet arrived — that the mutual guarantee company, which is a State-participated body, has already approved EUR 5 billion and that you do not know why these EUR 5 billion are not yet in companies, you do not know why it is that they are not yet hired, and that, even last week, only 8 % of that value was contracted, as Mr Prime Minister does not know, I will give you a suggestion: do as the CDS, ask the mutual guarantee company and you will find that it will tell you that, when the credit lines were announced in March, there were only 3000 applications, but then there was a legislative change in the design of the measure — they have changed the manner of capital and maturity and the applications for this 40 m 000. So, Prime Minister, you know why that happened? It was not for the entrepreneurs that they did not need or because they were going to ask for the loan to be cautious; it was, yes, because it was misdesigned. And since the measure was badly designed, it took more than a month to reach the companies. It was therefore worth talking to their bodies, who had already discovered this information. I'm going to talk to you about another matter now. Portugal is the only country in Europe which does not disclose macroeconomic projections or public finance projections. In translation, this means that the government does not know or seek to know what is happening in the economy. Of course, this is not just a technical one. So what I wanted to ask you has to do with the following: since, last week, apparently, we have been more busy discussing the stay or not in the Government of the Minister of Finance than to discuss a recovery plan for the country, I think that perhaps this week, we would better discuss where the country goes and not so much as where Mr Finance goes — I think it is bad that it goes to the Banco de Portugal, but at this point I think it is more important to discuss where the country is going. So what I ask you is when, finally, the government will present a recovery plan, a recovery plan for the economy. I ask you whether this is soon, whether we are going to have to wait for the amending budget, to which Mr Prime Minister refers as an additional budget. I think it can be supplementary, amending or supplementary, whatever it is, the important thing is to discuss how Portugal will get out of here. I ask you if you will leave here with a recovery plan, which looks at competitiveness, which, yes, lowers taxes and gives signs of confidence in the private initiative, which is the opposite of what has happened lately. That was the answer I would like to hear the Prime Minister give to the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we understand each other. The honourable Member is right. In fact, we have designed a measure with great generosity and amplitude for all companies to be able to do so—and that is why most of them are micro and small enterprises. It is true that this required a huge work of the Portuguese society of mutual guarantee. But what I told you and what you also know and pretended you don't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u109	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u110	... is that the Portuguese mutual guarantee company has already approved more than EUR 5 billion of guarantees and that the banks only hired EUR 1500 million of guarantees. Therefore, the banks are not waiting for the Portuguese society of mutual guarantee, they are waiting for what. But there is one thing I know: the companies that need are waiting for the banks, they are not waiting for the Portuguese society of mutual guarantee. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] As regards the projections last week, the discussion of the Stability Programme took place when the reason why the Government did not present its scenario was explained. He knows that we will do so within the framework of the supplementary budget which we will present in this House in June. And, as I have already had the opportunity to tell Mr André Silva, Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I also say to the CDS — and I only don't tell the PSD, because the PSD has not asked me anything about it — that we intend to meet on the next Monday and Tuesday with all the parliamentary parties to discuss what we have designated as the "economic and social stability programme" and that will necessarily have to be projected into a fundamental instrument, which is the supplementary budget. And the way we see this trajectory is that, after this first stage, which was an emergency phase, we now need a programme that ensures the stabilization of the economic and social situation and that creates the conditions for us to prepare a recovery and recovery programme of the economy, when the health conditions allow it, when the conditions of the global economy permit it and when we have finally designed or at least a sufficiently concrete outline of the financing instruments of the European Union, without which we must be able to design a recovery and recovery programme of the economy may be a good rhetorical or propaganda exercise, but it will be an instrument of very low efficiency and usefulness for the citizens and for the Portuguese companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u111	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP continues to use the word. Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u112	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last fortnight, said Mr Prime Minister « is all paid», referring to the requirements of simplified layoffs entered until 10 April. The question I ask you is this: to a small restaurant owner who delivered his request on April 7, who still has his request under consideration, who cannot pay wages and who explains to his workers that he cannot do so because he did not receive it from the State, what does Mr. Prime Minister say? What does it say to that person, who is currently faced by the workers with the Prime Minister's word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I say two things. First, as I said, and repeat again, all valid requirements entered until 10 April were paid until 30 April; and all valid requirements entered until 30 April were paid until 15 May. If that is not the case, what I have to say is quite simply this: the honourable Member gives me the indication of what this establishment is and I will find out what is going on with that establishment in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u115	Mr João Pinho de Almeida continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, as you will estimate, I will not give you a specific case when there are other cases. This would mean being positively discriminating a case on the basis that it was simply able to reach a parliamentary group, which others, perhaps, failed to achieve. That would be unacceptable, so I will not participate in such a process. But I'm asking you something else. There is also the case of an accountant who submitted proceedings on days 9, 15 and 24 and who on day 30 had all these three processes under consideration. What does this accountant say to their customers that they say "the Prime Minister says they are all processed, if ours aren't because they weren't regular"? What does the Prime Minister say to this accountant?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u117	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u118	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, I tell you exactly the same as I said in the previous reply in the case of the restaurant gentleman. I hope you don't give me the same answer and put what you have to say on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u119	Mr João Pinho de Almeida continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u120	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I am sure so. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security knows that I do not have this problem. In fact, today in the Commission, I have put several cases on the table because I know them and because the CDS Parliamentary Group has had this concern. A final question, which has to do with the following: the problems do not end on June 30, but the simplified layoff ends. A restaurant which is now starting to operate at 50 % will not be able to pay 100 % wages in July. I therefore wonder whether, like what other countries have done and according to what, for example, Mr President of the Republic today, the Government is considering extending the simplified layoff regime beyond 30 June. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u122	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida, as you do not indicate the specific cases, I can only tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u123	Indic, indic! I already sent e-mails!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u124	You do not need to tell me, tell the Minister, of course, who to understand. But, as I was saying, what I can tell you is the general numbers. And what are the general numbers I have? The general figures I have are that, so far, the support amounts to a total of 284 million euros, to a universe of 83,324 employers, covering 681 000 workers. Until 22 May the ninth payment will be made, which is currently being launched on requests from 90 031 companies and covering 735 130 workers, and payments have already been made on 6 April, 16 April, 19 April, 25 April, 29 April, 4 May, 10 May and 13 May. This is what I can tell you about layoff payments. With regard to the possible extension of this measure of layoff, the normal layoff regime or any other measure of an equivalent nature, I will repeat what I have just said to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, i.e. on Monday or Tuesday, when we have the opportunity to meet with the CDS to discuss the economic and social emergency programme, of course, one of the things to be duly considered is whether we should keep this regime simplified, whether we should simply return to the normal regime which has been in force since the 1980s, or whether there should be another alternative measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u125	Would you like to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u126	This is certain that it is absolutely essential that we maintain measures to protect jobs, since we are all aware that, as a result of the health crisis, the result of legitimate fear of people, the difficulties of the crisis and the loss of purchasing power of the Portuguese generality, there are several economic sectors, especially micro and small businesses, which are particularly exposed to the crisis and with a serious threat to jobs. We must therefore adopt measures that respond to this need: to protect Portuguese businesses, jobs and income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u127	It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, therefore Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister, the New Bank continues to be a problem, which shows that "what is born wrong late or never goes right" and this time with two new elements: lack of coordination between government members and violation of a commitment that was assumed by the Government, that there would be no transfers without the conclusion of the audit. I'd say it's two low-paying episodes for the government, in a real movie that seems to have no end. But our greatest concern in this area is another one, calling 'EUR 850 million' plus 'EUR 850 million'. Now, at a time like the one we live in, the Portuguese are again called to pay an invoice that is not theirs, on which, indeed, they have no responsibility, and when many families are having serious difficulties even to buy bread. We know that the problem is not today, we also know who created it and we still know how these people talk about the problem today, what we do not know is when the tap is closed, and this, in our perspective, is that it was important to know, Prime Minister. But speaking of bread, this pandemic is putting many families in poverty and even leaving many families with serious and serious difficulties. Moreover, family requests for aid do not stop growing, they reach historical numbers, which shows, in fact, the size of the problem. So, Prime Minister, I ask: what answers, in the face of this very serious problem? On the other hand, the support announced by the Government is not reaching small businesses. At credit lines, the vast majority of small businesses have seen their request rejected by banks. If it is true that the credit lines have run out, as the banks say, and if the money has not been for small businesses, then it is interesting to know where the money has been. As regards layoff, the support has not yet reached the generality of small businesses, and what I ask you, Prime Minister, is what is happening. Finally, on this subject, the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises calls for the creation of a treasury fund for small businesses. I would like to know, Prime Minister, whether or not the Government has responded to this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u129	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u130	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, with regard to the New Bank, and with regard to the « tournament » there is one fundamental thing that the 2017 contract has guaranteed. The honourable Member says he does not know when the tuna will close, but he knows, because in the 2017 contract a ceiling has been placed from which the State lends nothing to the Resolution Fund and this ceiling is in EUR 3900 million. So we know what the ceiling is, which we didn't know until 2017, but we also know what would have happened and what would have been the charge for the state and for the Portuguese if we hadn't sold the New Bank at that time, under the conditions that existed to sell it. You know that a good thing is sold well, but one thing that is bad is hard to sell as a good thing, especially when the buyer is suspicious of what is being sold to him and naturally demands his cautions. Therefore, the New Bank was sold as it could be sold under the conditions in which it was, as a result of the management and disastrous resolution that had been made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u132	What we guarantee is that there is a ceiling, a ceiling, a guarantee from which the State is not required to lend money to the Resolution Fund to fund the New Bank, and it is very important that this has been guaranteed. With regard to all the support measures, as I have told you, we will also discuss with the ENP next Monday or Tuesday what will be the economic and social emergency programme, which will have to have partial translation into the supplementary budget and of course will have other measures which will extravagant it. At that time, we will have the opportunity to discuss all the ideas that Mr. Members have presented and we have been taking due note and analysing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u133	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u134	Mr President, Prime Minister, this crisis is not a dead end to the collapse of ecosystems that are occurring across the globe and therefore I also bring to debate two environmental issues, one of which is not really a problem and may even be a solution. The ZERO association, in the context of this crisis, assessed the potential of recycling in job creation and concluded that the wagering in recycling could create more than 5000 direct and permanent jobs. What I wanted to know, even because ZERO has already sent this study to the government, is how the government looks at this study. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the Spanish Nuclear Security Council has recently issued an opinion in favour of the request to renew the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. I therefore ask you, Mr Prime Minister, whether the Government is going to develop some diligence with the Spanish Government to counter this claim, which eventually perpetuates the operation at our source of a completely obsolete nuclear power plant that has long been shut down. We know that we are only faced with an opinion and that, therefore, there is no decision yet, but that is why we insist, because it is necessary to act before the decision, because it can be late, with all the consequences and risks that the extension of this nuclear power plant represents to our country, especially in border areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u136	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I thank you for your questions. With regard to the study by ZERO, I do not know him, so I will then ask the Minister of the Environment what he does. Regarding the issue of Almaraz, as you know, the Spanish Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan defined the Almaraz Central as one of the first to be closed between 2025 and 2035. The Spanish Nuclear Security Council has now issued a favourable opinion that the power plant can operate until 2028. The indication we have is that one of the two units of Almaraz will close in 2027 and the other in 2028, which was what was planned, so it will be the first ones to be closed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u137	It is Mr Ventura's turn to ask his questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u138	Mr President, I would like to begin this parliamentary debate without pointing to the tremendous hypocrisy of the Left Block in this matter. It has made it possible for a State budget that provided for the transfer of hundreds of millions of euros to the New Bank and now comes here as if it had no idea what the New Bank is. Of course, this will not happen overnight, in the news—we already know why—but here is the message that the Left Block has made this Budget possible. [[BE's protests.]] Take it easy, take it easy! I would also like to point out to you a very large censoring note, Mr. Prime Minister, for having launched a presidential candidacy in the wake of his parliamentary leader, his bench, who had no idea what he was doing. It is very bad for you, as PS leader, to launch this candidacy, take the stage with Dr. Rui Rio, and allow Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa to continue as a system candidate in the presidential elections. [[PS protests.]] I know that Comrade André Silva is happy when he tells you that there will be no support for the bullfighting, but I do not stay and therefore I want to know the following: Mr. Minister for Finance will go or not go to the Banco de Portugal? This is what we want to know today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u140	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I see that it has been of great difficulty and has not yet returned. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] It was a good attempt to do so, but when it comes to the replacement of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal it will not fail to be heard, like all parliamentary parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u141	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, you say here,... [[At the moment, the speaker posted a news from the newspaper i.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u143	Say, where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u144	...that the Stability Programme only plans to pay 792 000 workers, of the various who are in layoff. Is that a lie, too? [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u145	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just said the numbers of workers who are currently being covered by the measure of layoff. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u147	Mr. André Ventura, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u148	Mr President, Prime Minister, you are the man most persecuted by the press, following me. I have a lot of pity for you, honestly. [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, your Secretary of State for Health said, and I quote, "no invalid or uncertified masks have been distributed." For it has come to the knowledge that these masks are being used by prison guards: they have no certificate, they have absolutely nothing! The speaker displayed a blue protective mask. And these are from a hospital. The speaker displayed a white protective mask. You have a saying in Chinese that maybe Mr. Prime Minister can understand, because no one else can. I have them here, to be distributed whenever you want, wherever you want, sooner or later at night...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u149	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to ask you the following, Prime Minister : how can you keep a State Secretary of Health who says in public that no invalid and uncertified masks have been distributed when, in prisons, what is in use is this? Oh, my God! It's not another, that's the one in my hand! The speaker again displayed the blue protective mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u151	And that's for everyone? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u152	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u153	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, I regret to disappoint you, but unfortunately I cannot translate Chinese...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u154	Send them or cantonese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u155	...and, therefore, I cannot help you in that translation. With regard to the really relevant question I wanted to ask you, I would like to say that the Secretary of State referred to a question which was addressed to you on the case, which, in fact, if you come to the press, is under investigation by the Public Prosecutor, of a company that tried to sell to the State a set of masks that did not have the proper certification. So, what Mr. Secretary of State said, and he did, was that no mask of this lot would be distributed until his certification was clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u156	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u157	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Now there is something completely different. I understand that the political debate is very focused on the pandemic, but the pandemic has to pass; I know less that the political debate is concentrated on presidential issues, in fact various internal discussions of the government. The structural and geostrategic problems of Portugal will continue and I will ask some questions in this measure. It's a little different, I know. last Monday, several pro-democracy Members in the Hong Kong Parliament were forcibly removed so that the President of the Pro-China Chamber could be re-elected. Will the Portuguese Government, and specifically the Prime Minister, repudiate this action and signal to the Portuguese that there are more important values in liberal democracy than the economic interests of this country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u159	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I am not going to talk about this case in particular, but I believe that no one in international society has doubts about the fact that Portugal is a bastion in the defence of human rights, democratic regimes and the rule of law at any point in the world and whatever our level of relationship with the State in question. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u160	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u161	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like that doubt not to be maintained, and there is no repudiation of this case in particular. As far as strategic issues and the Chinese communist regime are concerned, let me remind you: China has, over the past three years, arrested more than 1 million Uighurs, the Muslim minority, in over 80 concentration camps in Xinjiang province, subjecting them to reeducation and forced labour; China has applied punitive and retaliation charges to imports of certain products from certain countries, such as Australia, only because they have asked about China's role in the present pandemic crisis; China is, weeks ago, in unplanned military maneuvers and strengthening military effectiveness on its bases in the South China Sea, in clear intimidation of its neighbours, Vietnam and Indonesia. And I could continue, because the list is very long, Mr. Prime Minister. It was with this regime that your Government celebrated, a little more than a year ago and with an enthusiastic accession, the decision of the Faixa and Rota Initiative, a sort of 21st century version of colonialism, only now of China. For the Liberal Initiative, a government that violates human rights and uses force to gain influence and power cannot be a strategic partner of Portugal. We defend, intransigently, free trade, as it is known.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u162	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are against protectionism, but our preferred partners must respect human rights. More and more countries in Asia and Europe have reached the same conclusion and are reviewing the relationship with communist China.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u164	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u165	Mr. Prime Minister, what is the intention of your government, and I speak of your government, not of previous governments? Will you continue to close your eyes, as so far, or will you give a clear signal to the Portuguese that democracy and the values of liberal democracy are not for sale? [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u166	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u167	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, there are several things we do not confuse. First, the fact that we are a country that has secular relations with China and that was the last country to administer Chinese territory until the beginning of this century. Secondly, we do not ignore our fundamental values and what are the principles set out in our Constitution on international relations. Portugal, still very recently, in the United Nations Human Rights Committee, in the framework of the periodic assessment made to the People's Republic of China, followed the European Union's position by pointing out that there was a decline in respect for civil rights, despite the progress made in economic and social rights. We therefore do not have any complex in the political relationship with China, but we do not confuse the firmness we have in the defence of human rights, the rule of law, the guarantee of freedoms, the guarantee and promotion of democracy, the protection of peace and multilateralism with another reality, which is the relationship that we must maintain, in particular from the economic point of view, with any state and also with China. There is no preferential relationship with China.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u168	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u169	I will now finish, Mr President. With regard to the agreement we signed in Portugal at the time of the State visit of President Xi Jinping, it was the study of the integration of the route and port of Sines in the initiative « Una Faixa, Una Rota », because at the Chinese initiative it ended in Madrid.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u170	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u171	The fundamental question that arises — as it says and well — is geopolitical in nature. It is a question of whether the port of Sines is a fundamental part in the articulation of the European continent with the global economy or whether this articulation runs out in the dry port of Madrid.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u172	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u173	If you prefer this option, then this option is very wrong for the interests of our country. Our country's interests are valued by valuing our geostrategic position in the joint, particularly the port of Sines, with all global circuits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-20.u174	We have thus reached the end of the single point on our agenda and also of this meeting. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government who were present here and also to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. from the agenda of tomorrow's meeting, which will start at 3 p.m., there is a first item on the presentation and discussion of the Implementation Report of 3. the Declaration by the State of Emergency for the period from 18 April to 2 May 2020. As a second point we have the joint discussion, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law, and of Bills Nos 384 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore or non-cooperating offshore centres, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Excludes entities based in tax havens from any public economic support and 386 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Excludes companies based in tax havens from support lines under the COVID-19 pandemic. The third point provides for the general joint discussion of the following diplomas: Proposal for a Law No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic ; Bill Nos 387 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional housing and non-residential lease scheme in the case of a proven decrease in yield and 389 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2020 of 20 April, with a view to extending the deadlines for support to families in the context of the current public health crisis ; and Resolution Projects No 427 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the scope of the support of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute in the payment of housing income under COVID-19 and 438 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — the immediate suspension of payment of IMI to owners with losses of more than 20 % of income. The fourth point consists of the assessment of Petition No 537 / XIII / 3. a (Luís Alberto Júdice Veiga da Silva et al.) — Requests for the repeal of Chapter VI of Title I of Book II of the Criminal Code on crimes against honor. of the fifth point is the assessment of Petition No 561 / XIII / 4. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — by hiring Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service, together with Resolution Projects Nos 214 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government contract Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service, 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of gestal-language interpreters for public services and 210 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the access of deaf people to the National Health Service. Finally, the vote is the sixth and last item on the agenda. We are thus at the end of our session. Thank you very much to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 16 hours and 58 minutes.]]
