ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u1	First of all, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and also the ladies and gentlemen. Officials and the ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities opening the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to give. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u2	Madam President, I am going to announce the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted. I refer, first, to Law Projects No. 231 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Seventh amendment to Law No. 32 / 2006 of 26 June, increasing from three to five cycles of second-line drug procreation treatment assisted, shared by the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, No 232 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensures that new sources of hydrocarbons are not exploited, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, No 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Passos » in the municipality of Fafe, for « Paços », which falls to 13. the Commission, No 234 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the working group for the legal regulation of the rapid wear professions and the creation of the respective table, which falls to 10. the Commission, No 236 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the right to sickness benefit for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease and makes the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004 which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 13. a Commission, No 237 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Alter the Assisted Medicine Processing Scheme, allowing post mortem insemination to perform a clearly established parental project ( seventh amendment to Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ), which falls to 9. the Commission, No 239 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Payment at 100 % of the disease allowance in case of tuberculosis or other cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 13. a Commission, No 244 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — The scheme of incentives for emigrants and emigrants wishing to attend public higher education institutions in Portugal, which falls to 8. Bills No 245 / XIV / 1 were also entered into the Bureau. a ( NAP) — Includes in the Labour Code the errors caused by prophylactic isolation as justified and assigns to beneficiaries a daily amount of sickness benefit corresponding to 100 % of the remuneration, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 13. a Commission, No 246 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, which falls to 10. the Commission, No 247 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Ensure access to the pregnancy of substitution by amending Law No 32 / 2006 of 26 July ( assisted drug procreation ), which falls to 9. the Commission, No 250 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates crimes of rape, sexual coercion and sexual abuse of a person unable to resist as public crimes ( 47. the amendment to the Penal Code ), which falls to 1. the Commission, No 252 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the strengthening of the rights to employees by shift and night ( Amendment to the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions ), which falls to 10. the Commission, No 253 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves transparency rules applicable to private entities performing legitimate representation of interests with public entities and establishes a transparency register for the representation of interests which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 14. the Commission, No 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Interpretation of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, clarifying its subjective scope of application, which falls to 5. the Commission, in connection with 6. a and 9. the Commission, and No 255 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthens the disease allowance in the event of an outbreak and ensures that there is no loss of remuneration in a situation of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease ( sixth amendment of Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 13. the Commission. Resolution No. 295 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Control of invasive species and infestants in the Fermentellos Pateira and depollution of the river Certima and its tributaries, No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Regulation of the Basic Social Economy Act, which falls to 10. the Commission, No 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Commitment for cooperation for the social and solidarity sector, which falls to 10. the Commission, No 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the financing of the IPSS that ends the chronic sub-financing of the sector, heed regional modulation in order to correct existing asymmetries and promote the harmonization of professional careers in the IPSS, which falls to 10. the Commission, No 301 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the reactivation of the Alfeite Arsenal Training School, which falls to 3. the Commission, No 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the National Palliative Care Network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care, which falls to 9. the Commission, No 305 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Privilege the policy of the three Rs, to the detriment of end-of-line solutions, which goes down to 11. the Commission, No 306 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Requalification of the School EB 2, 3 Mario de Sá Carneiro, in the municipality of Loures, No 307 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to enhance associations that promote gender balance in their social bodies, which falls to 1. the Commission, No 308 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that school textbooks be extended free of charge to students in private or cooperative schools, which goes down to 8. Commission No 309 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends the inclusion of artistic expression teaching in pre-school, primary and basic teachings, which goes down to 8. Commission No 310 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The replacement of the remuneration supplements payable to the security forces, which falls to 1. the Commission, No 311 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The placement of video interpreters of gestal language in public services, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and No 312 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The bet on the training and recruitment of judicial police scientists, which falls to 1. the Commission. The Constitutional Review Project No. 1 / XIV / 1 was also included in the Bureau. a ( CH) — By defending the population in epidemic scenarios and Bill No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law, which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 5. the Commission. I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government will then initiate the debate requested by the Committee on European Affairs, with the participation of the Government, on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( b ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic under the European Union construction process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ), and Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( k ). the one of the same Law. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will briefly address the priorities of our participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, the Permanent Structured Cooperation, and also address a few words about the European Defence Fund. We live in a context of high security requirements and the PESCO is an important instrument, focusing on the development of defence capabilities of the Member States of the European Union and also the idea of promoting greater political and industrial cooperation in the field of defence. It is very clear today that we are not talking about creating a European army and it is also clear that we are not assuming any duplication of capabilities, particularly with regard to NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). Portugal has only a set of forces and capabilities that must be at the service of the country and its allies and partners, in a coordinated manner. Portugal's participation in the PESCO changed substantially last year because we applied to lead two projects, in the third wave of projects, and we were successful in these applications. In particular, I would like to stress the three elements that have resulted in this improvement in the Portuguese position. First, a valuable work has been carried out within the support group for Portuguese participation in the PESCO, which we created in the Ministry of National Defence. Secondly, a re-evaluation of the priorities of our participation has been made. Thirdly, funding under the Military Programming Act has also been provided for. Good experience within the framework of the system we have set up leads us to see how to extend this experience to the Portuguese participation in the European Defence Fund, which I shall speak about in a moment. The current situation, after the third project wave, which has a total of 46 projects, is that Portugal participates in 10 projects, leads 2 of them and is observer in 15 other projects. The projects we lead are the Maritime Unmanned Anti-Submarine System, in the area of anti-submarine war, and the Cyber Academy & Innovation Hub ( CAIH ), in the area of cyber training and innovation. Regarding MUSAS, it is a system for the anti-submarine war, dedicated to the development of an architecture in the service of consultation, command and control for anti-submarine war, favoring the intensive use of artificial technology and intelligence. It integrates the European Union's capacity-building plan for underwater control, contributing to resilience at sea. Its funding is being defined by the consortium. The Cyber Academy & Innovation Hub, which we also lead, deals with cyber training and innovation : integrates the European Union's Capacity Development Plan for cyber response operations, empowers national investments under the Military Programming Act and the presence of the NATO Communications and Information Academy, in Oeiras. National funding is €800,000 and the total investment planned for the three years is €4 million, including European financing and industry. The project already has 40 participants in industry and academic institutions, both in the public sector and in the private sector. During this year of 2020 the European Union is developing the strategic review process of the PESCO for which Portugal has contributed and is expected to be ready by the end of this year. Our expectation is that, depending on this strategic review and also due to some attrition in projects, there is a reduction in the total number of projects. The second point is on the European Defence Fund. It is worth stressing that, in view of the ongoing negotiations on the European budget, the European Defence Fund's financial package remains open as well as some aspects of modalities of participation remain open. Portugal has contributed actively to this process, especially in the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the essence of national reality and, to a large extent, also of European reality. We are working directly with the technological and industrial defence base industries to inform them and to raise awareness of the importance of integrating networks and partnerships at European level and, of course, where it is strategically relevant to the country, by leveraging this activity. Last week I went to Brussels to meet with Commissioner Thierry Breton, responsible for the internal market and services, who is responsible for the future European Defence Fund. We decided at this meeting that we will still have a European Commission road show in Portugal on the European Defence Fund, so that our companies can have a better understanding of the opportunities in this area. However, on our side, we will also set up an information and support mechanism, similar to what we have done with the PESCO. In short, the Defence is fulfilling the Government's European Defence Programme and is monitoring and ensuring our full participation in the ongoing processes, both in the political and economic spheres. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u5	Two Mrs were registered. Members to make requests for clarification, and the Minister has informed the Bureau that he wishes to answer together. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. I begin by congratulating the Minister for National Defence, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of National Defence, the cronovirus crisis — COVID-19 shows how European policies, which divert money from public services to military spending, are wrong. And all to give money to the European military industry, all to create a business for the big European countries, leaving Europe worse and the European peoples in the worst situation. This huge error was created in 2017 and is called Permanent Structured Cooperation (CEP ) in the area of Security and Defence Policy. At the time, the Portuguese Government stated that Portugal's participation in the CEP did not call into question, and I quote, 'the sovereignty and autonomy of the national decision-making processes' and that it did not make any changes as regards national defence policies. What he did not say was that the CEP would take money from European funds for cohesion and European policies to respond to inequalities. Since the beginning, the Left Block has refused our country to integrate permanent structured cooperation, as this would be more a loss of sovereignty, a choice that attacked national interests in the distribution of European funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u7	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u8	... and a business done in accordance with the interests of the countries of central Europe, against the interests of countries such as Portugal. Portugal will be more dependent and subordinate to European war interests and will be obliged to invest hundreds of millions of euros in the defence sector in military weapons or technology, the so-called "war industry". And we well know, although they swear otherwise, that the CEP will no longer be the embryo of a future European army. Millions of euros scattered in this way and so much will be lacking in public investment and in education, health and housing policies, as well as in research and technological development. There will thus be no social convergence in our country the trailer of permanent structured cooperation. Well the Government may say that we have several projects within the framework of permanent structured cooperation in the fields of training, training, capacity development and operational availability, that Portugal will participate in several of these projects and that our country had at least - Mr. Minister - 25 million available for these projects by 2020. The questions I would like to put to the Minister are the following: do you not think that Portugal is playing on military projects and spending so much million on the service of the European Union and NATO in superfluous expenditure? How much does the Government expect to spend in full in 2020? Will it be the 25 million in 2020 or will there be more money that will be withdrawn from public services for military expenditure? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u9	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State, the CFP has always opposed Portugal's participation in the so-called Permanent Structured Cooperation within the European Union, for various reasons explained here in a debate that took place in the past legislature, although it seems to us that there is every sense that there is a vote of this Assembly on Portugal's participation in the projects included in this Structured Cooperation. This was an acquisition of the last legislature because it was not like that. Portugal's participation was being launched without the possibility of a minimally effective scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic on this matter. This possibility of also bringing this point to the discussion of priorities within the European Union is an acquisition of this House. Obviously, this does not remove the criticisms we make to this so-called 'cooperation', because what we understand is that national defence policy must be dictated by national interest. This is a sovereign power of our country, our defence and the Portuguese Armed Forces have a fundamental role in defending our sovereignty, our territorial integrity and should not be subject to the strategic interests of other powers, especially within the framework of the European Union. One thing is military cooperation between sovereign and equal nations, another thing is supranational projects, through which Portugal is linked to projects that are not fundamentally dictated by our interest, but by the strategic interest of powers within the European Union. The European Union has not had a policy of peace. You don't! It is enough to remind us of the role that the European Union played in the conflict of the Balkans, which continues to be latent and endless in view ; of the aggression and dismemberment of Yugoslavia then ; of the manufacture of a supposed independence of Kosovo, transformed into a protectorate ; of all aggression against the Serbian people; of the destabilization caused by the European Union in Syria, Libya, the Middle East. We do not believe that what has been the European Union's foreign policy orientation is a policy of peace. Therefore, Portugal's involvement in this area does not correspond to national interest. Then there is also the military component. We are aware of the problems that the Portuguese Armed Forces have, in particular, in terms of the difficulties for young people to feel attracted by the Armed Forces, in the degradation at wage level — even yesterday, recognised in the Parliamentary Commission by the Minister — of the permanent frameworks of the Armed Forces and even of the people serving the Armed Forces under voluntary and contract arrangements. What, then, are the priorities of permanent structured cooperation? They have nothing to do with that! They relate to investments in armed forces equipment, which are not effectively those that meet the needs of the Portuguese Armed Forces, but those that are appropriate within the European Union. from that point on, Mr Minister for National Defence: it would not be more important to solve problems that have long been traced to the Portuguese Armed Forces, rather than to align themselves with projects within the framework of this strategic cooperation, which may serve the strategic design of other powers, but which do not serve the national interest? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u11	To reply, Mr. Minister of National Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Vasconcelos addresses his well-known anti-military position, which I have nothing to say about. This is a manifestation of the position of the party that represents, so out of the realities we face that I have some difficulty in picking up any of the comments you have made. As for the question you have asked, whether we should not spend money on another place first, the question I ask you is the following: if and when Portugal is faced with some military challenge and does not have Armed Forces, then how much can it cost the army of mercenaries, which, presumably, is the solution that you offer to solve the problems? As for the questions put by Mr António Filipe regarding the national interest, I would say the following: there are 46 projects and we participate in 10. The projects we participate in are chosen according to the national interest, and we participate voluntarily because we understand that there is a national interest. More than that, we propose projects that correspond directly to our interest and we seek the participation of other countries. We therefore leveraged our national interest through our participation in the PESCO and did not subject our capacity through this participation to other interests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u13	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is entirely concerned with the priorities set by the Croatian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Basically, it can be summed up as follows : a priority for development ; a priority for connectivity ; a priority for the protection of people ; and a priority for the strengthening of the overall influence of the European Union. We believe that these priorities also fit into some of the Union's fundamental tasks as such, dictated by the evolution of the situation which Europe knows, both economically and socially, from the point of view of public health. Therefore, attention to development must necessarily mean a firm attitude towards a positive commitment to the new multiannual financial framework, a commitment that forms part of the proposal originally presented by the European Commission — which was a good starting point, but insufficient — and approaches the positions well expressed by the European Parliament. Also in the context of priority for development, we must conduct a European policy capable of avoiding a new economic recession in Europe and, on the contrary, know how to engage all Member States in the ecological transition, in the digital transition, thereby making a new opportunity for the growth of wealth and employment in our Union. It is also difficult to speak today about the need to protect people without taking into account two immediate emergencies that the Union is experiencing: on the one hand, the urgency of preventing the spread of the coronary virus epidemic and developing the measures necessary for its containment and then for mitigating and, on the other hand, the urgency of building a European response throughout this semester, a European policy on migration and asylum, because it is the only one capable, favouring legal migration and respecting international humanitarian law, providing us with effective answers to problems such as those that exist today on the border between Turkey and Greece. Obviously, the priority in strengthening Europe's role in the world also has an immediate reading, now that we know the document for the joint strategy between the European Union and the African Union, which the European Commission has published this week. For all these reasons, Portugal believes that the priorities set by the Croatian Presidency for the first half of 2020 are a good framework for our collective action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u15	The Bureau registered, to request clarification, the registration of five Mrs. Members, to whom the Minister will answer together. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u16	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, the priorities for the Portuguese presidency of the Council of the European Union seem to be beyond reality and it is about the European reality of responding to the emergence of COVID that, to begin with, I would like to ask some questions. When the 27 countries are united, Europe is stronger to defend itself, to face crises. As a result of yesterday's European Council video conference, key priorities were defined: protecting the health of its citizens; implementing integrated policy responses to, together, limit the spread of the virus; emergency investment to ensure the availability of medical material and strengthen scientific research. So far we agree. But when we begin to understand what concrete measures will be taken to combat the negative socio-economic consequences caused by the COVID and where the 25 billion will be referred to, we have a number of concerns. The strategies disseminated to reduce the economic and social impact of the epidemic are contrary to the good intentions that have been declared. Instead of announcing support lines allowing preventive investment in all public services, leading the national health service in each country, strengthening containment strategies and thus ensuring the least possible impact of the disease, instead of ensuring economic support to Member States to strengthen their national health systems with human resources and equipment to respond to this situation, rather than clarifying that no Member State will be prosecuted or penalised if it fails to comply with the budgetary rules because of expenditure arising from the fight against this disease, clearly suspending the austerity budgetary rules during this crisis, instead, the Commission continues to place the treaties in front of people and asserts that the rules of the budgetary treaty are already sufficiently flexible, which is perceived, considering the projections recently disclosed, for example, by Chancellor Merkel on infection in Europe, which cannot be true. More: there is no support measure for those who are unemployed, there is no European social response to prevent workers from falling out of income. Mr Minister, what did the Portuguese Government propose to respond to these concerns, to respond to wages and to employment in the face of this epidemic? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u17	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, I have therefore heard from you, we agree that the proposal for a multiannual financial framework is detrimental to Portugal's interests. Therefore, in our view, it must be firmly rejected by the Portuguese Government. In fact, this proposal means a cut of 12 % of the funds for economic and social cohesion in relation to the funds of the current financial framework. In other words, it further exacerbates the cut in the original European Commission proposal with an even more worrying fact, which is the fact that this worsening affects the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund. The proposal is therefore very detrimental to Portugal and the so-called cohesion countries and only responds to the demands or interests of the main powers of the European Union and should therefore be seen as unacceptable by the Portuguese Government. Furthermore, Mr Minister : if there is any delay in the approval, programming or even in the execution of the funds of this framework and these delays are in some way used as a pressure mechanism on the countries most dependent on these funds, as is the case with Portugal, the Portuguese Government cannot give in to these blackmails and should not, in our view, simply reject these pressures as well as not abdicate from any mechanism at its disposal to defend the interests of our country, including the right of veto. I would like, Mr Minister, to speak on this matter, especially if the proposal remains. Last week, the European Commission presented its proposal on the so-called European Climate Law. With this climate law, it is intended to transform the European Union's objective of carbon neutrality in 2050 — which was, let us say, an intention — into a legal imperative, with a view to having a legislative expression in the legal systems of each Member State. It is an intention to follow up on the political commitment to make Europe on the first continent with carbon neutrality by 2050. According to the Commission, the transition to the new model will be gradual and fair—and we will wait to see what will happen, especially with regard to its justice—but it seems that there will be agreement to move forward immediately with an in-depth assessment of the impact of this economic and energy transition, which will, of course, involve a review of the emission reduction targets by 2030.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u19	It's more transaction than transition!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u20	As we know from this European climate law, it does not reflect some of the concerns contained in the European Ecological Pact, as well as point to ambitious goals and, above all, lack concrete measures in the short term. Nevertheless, I would like to know the position of the Portuguese Government on this European climate law, and I would ask the Minister to take a decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u21	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, today's debate is indeed dependent on what is now also the conditioning of European policy. The entire Croatian presidency road map is conditioned by the response that the Union has to give immediately to a problem that has arisen in the meantime, the coronavirus. The questions I would like to ask the Minister, without prejudice to other structural questions and on which we have already discussed, have exactly to do with this subject. It is that the European response is at risk of once again being considered late, insufficient and vague. In fact, the very reaction that has been decided by the Heads of State has much to do with this, because in such an important matter, it seems that the European position has become of little importance, which, perhaps, is what it deserves. First of all, the question is why the European Union only meets at the level of Heads of State and has only a sufficiently strong and articulated first response after more than half a thousand Europeans, citizens of the European Union, have died as a result of this epidemic. Why didn't the European Union act sooner? With regard to what is presented by the European Union as a financial solution, as a financial package, the 25 bi, we see that the United Kingdom, which has different situations to deal with because it does its own effort — unlike other Member States, which, by its national effort, adds the effort of the European Union — presents a package of 30 bi, i.e. more than that which the European Union presented yesterday, with this exception which naturally makes the situation different. It is essential to ask whether this package is sufficient — a question the Prime Minister himself asked yesterday. I therefore ask the Minister to comment whether the European Union will be strict to follow the road map that defines, because of course we are all concerned that errors can be repeated in the 2008 crisis when the European Union started with an answer and then changed it by introducing criteria that would compromise it substantially.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u23	It's a much higher update!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u24	No, it's not an update. We are not going to talk about the national component of the problem, Minister, because the demand for responsibilities is much higher there. The difference is that we have never denied the external effect by criticizing the internal effect, we have never also admitted that all that happened in Portugal with the external effect should be justified. Our position is very clear. But what matters now is whether the European Union guarantees that it has learned something from the 2008 crisis and whether this will help to avoid a new recession in the Union because at the moment that concern has to exist. Mr Minister, I will also ask very specific questions about the fact that the answer is vague. Mr Minister, one of the most stimulating European programmes for the new generations is the Erasmus programme. What has the European Union already decided to do, so far, with regard to young Europeans who are outside their home state, who are, many of them, without classes, because there are no classes in the countries where they are, and who cannot return to their countries, being completely abandoned by a European Union that had the ability to create this Programme? This is probably one of the programmes that creates a greater link between young people and the European project, and on that the European Union says nothing, it says absolutely nothing. What should happen? What should be done? What should each Member State do? What should each student do? What should each educational institution do? The ineffectiveness of the European Union to deal with such problems is seen in a specific case, such as the Erasmus programme. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to answer all these questions and if you succeed in showing that this skepticism we have in relation to the European answer is not justified. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u25	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u26	Good afternoon, Madam President, Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, at present thousands of children, women and men fleeing the war and persecution are being received at the border between Greece and Turkey with aggressions, tear gas and rubber bullets. Their only crime is the search for a more dignified and secure life in Europe. Turkey has opened the door to hundreds of thousands of people, who accumulate under harsh and highly vulnerable conditions in refugee camps that have long exceeded their capacity. The answer of the Greek Coast Guard was to attack the boats that attempt to land on their shore, shooting at them and causing shipwreck and even deaths. The so-called "refugee crisis" is nothing more than the crisis of Frontex's Europe-Fortality model, of which Portugal was an accomplice, a Europe which, following the basic principles of international law and its own principles, subcontracts inhumanity by signing agreements as it has established with Turkey. We welcome the fact that Portugal has expressed its willingness to welcome unaccompanied minors who are in refugee camps in Greece, but that is not enough. We must abandon this European closing model, which, as we see in a tragic way, is not working. Will Portugal take that step? It is urgent to take measures to share responsibility for the reception and integration of refugees and the abandonment of this inhuman policy. In 2019, the Portuguese Government entered into an agreement with Greece, by which it was available to host 1,000 people who are in refugee camps in that country. So far, this agreement has not been implemented. Why? When will this agreement be implemented, Minister? Finally, under UNHCR's voluntary resettlement programme ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ), the Government undertook to relocate 1010 refugees in Turkey and Egypt. To what extent is this case, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u27	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, this debate on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union basically continues our discussions on the policy options and guidelines in this area and there are, of course, aspects of these priorities taken up by the Croatian Presidency which should bring to the debate. However, given the time when this discussion takes place, it is already becoming appropriate not only to the priorities identified as being applied in concrete, in a presidency that goes virtually halfway. The question is the following: what the Government is taking stock of the intervention which is now being made by the Croatian Presidency, in conjunction with the European Commission, in cases such as the Plurianual Financial Framework, which, from then on, in view of the results that have come without surprise from the last extraordinary European Council, raise here reinforced demands for intervention and action in defence of the national interest. What path is being taken in this area at the level of the Presidency of the European Union, and what analysis does the Government make of this intervention and of these demands? On the priorities that have been taken and presented, including here in the Assembly of the Republic, by the Croatian State, what matters, however, is a vision that lacks at least some reflection on the paths we have and the options that are put in place and that must be discussed with regard to Europe and what is put in the European Union. In chapter A Europe that develops, the Croatian Presidency document refers to five priorities for regional development — the title is Regional Development Balanced — and three of these priorities are to strengthen economic and monetary union and the euro, to continue the development of the Union of Capital Markets and to ensure the equal quality of products on the markets of Member States. However, from the point of view of regional development and cohesion, we are far from the necessary answers to the issues that are being raised today to the people of Europe, their countries and, in particular, to our country. There are therefore concerns and perplexities here that cannot help but face what is assumed and announced as a political programme at the level of the Croatian Presidency. On the other hand, Mr Minister, it is imperative to highlight and address the situation of migration at the Greek-Turkish border and the response given by the European Union. We speak of human beings fleeing war and hunger, and no one leaves their home and their country of light mind. We are talking about the European Union, which has a dual responsibility in this situation. First, it supports and participates in the aggression and destabilization of third countries, as my comrade Antonio Filipe has already mentioned here, and then the European Union which is proud of human rights is hypocritically associated with the inhumane situation in these concentration camps and makes shameful agreements with countries such as Turkey. Therefore, the question that arises and the needs that are at stake are: condemning Turkish aggression in the Syrian Arab Republic, giving it all support in combating terrorism and in defending its territorial integrity and sovereignty in respect of international law; rejecting the consolidation of the concept of European Union fortitude, which criminalizes those who seek or offer help; defending international law, in particular the right of asylum; and promoting genuine development cooperation policies that ensure rights, social progress and peace. It is on this issue that it was important for the Portuguese Government to take a decision. Mr Minister, in conclusion, I would like to raise a question that has to do with the proposed negotiating mandate on a new partnership with the United Kingdom, given that it is also another of the priorities of the Croatian presence. And that is assumed, of course, in your document.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u29	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u30	I'm done now, Madam President. Indeed, the prohibition of States in the exercise of their sovereignty is imposed on them to negotiate and establish bilateral relations with the United Kingdom, seeking to confer the exclusive right of negotiation on the European Union, which is particularly serious if we think about the relations that Portugal has developed with the United Kingdom and the relevant emigrant community in that country. That is why it is also important for the Government to have a word on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u31	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u32	Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, on a matter of time organization, I will answer thematically. And there were five topics placed. First, the topic of climate law. We understand that the proposal put forward by the European Commission is a good starting point and that there is now much work to be done, since the schedule itself will be for the Portuguese Presidency to complete this process involving codecision and approval by the European Parliament. The second theme, that of the Plurianual Financial Framework, is obviously very relevant and urgent. It's necessary, ladies. Members, conclude this process as soon as possible so that there is no hiatus in the transition between this framework and the next multiannual financial framework. We understand, however, that the proposal put forward by the Finnish Presidency was bad and that it was also the proposal put forward by the President of the European Council. It has therefore been rejected by the vast majority of the Member States and now we are all involved in a process to reach a compromise. I reiterate that, from a Portuguese point of view, it is very important to have the notion that this commitment must be between the European Commission's starting point and the European Parliament's starting point and not just below the European Commission's own starting point. This is, of course, the question of the volume of resources associated with European ambition, but also of the structure of public expenditure. As far as the structure of public expenditure is concerned, we argue that there should be no cuts in agricultural and cohesion policies, which are fundamental policies of the European ideal. On the third topic, which is the negotiating mandate for the future partnership between the European Union and the United Kingdom, I can rest Mr Bruno Dias, if I may, since what we have approved was the mandate for the agreement between the European Union, therefore between the 27 and the United Kingdom. We have all the advantages of this agreement being made, whether it is a strong economic and commercial agreement. Our ambition is described in these simple terms: we want zero quotas, zero rates and zero dumping in our trade with the United Kingdom. Portugal is a very clear beneficiary of the trade agreements which the European Union holds with other countries, it is sufficient to see the evolution of our exports to Canada, since the approval of CETA ( Global Economic and Trade Agreement ). Could not connect with command "%s": %s. We are involved in this negotiating process, led by a negotiating team that we have chosen from ourselves, but which is scrutinized and framed by States, by the European Council from the outset and then by the Council of the European Union. Regarding the fourth theme, that of the coronary virus epidemic, the COVID-19, meant two things. The first is basically in response to Mr. João Almeida, whose understanding of what happened in 2008 greets—although late, it is always good to arrive, even late, at a proper understanding of what economic crises and political responses to these crises are. I would like to point out that the essential point of the Prime Minister's intervention in the European Council, as he himself explained later in the Portuguese press, is that we cannot again be — if we allow me merely metaphorical —'squizophrenic' : at the moment we need to counter the economic recession — that is our essential objective; and we must put budgetary discipline between relatives — and at the next moment we will be punishing the implementation of our own commitment. That, this time, won't happen. With regard to the specific issue concerning the Erasmus Programme, Erasmus students are subject to the rules of the health authorities of the countries in which they are located. at this moment, there is a country, Italy, which is in a kind of national quarantine and our recommendation to the students there is that they comply with these rules. Erasmus students in other countries have their free circulation and if they do not have classes they can choose to stay in these countries or return to Portugal. On the fifth subject — with the permission of the President — I would like to thank Mrs Fabíola Cardoso for her greeting to the Portuguese position, which I think is a very justified greeting. In fact, Portugal has opposed the idea of Europe-fortress and has been very strict in the idea that the issue of refugees is a question of international humanitarian law and that, therefore, the reception of refugees is our duty; and migration policy is a national policy—and the State can change and rebuild its migration policy—, Europe has all the advantage of having a common response to migration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u33	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u34	I conclude now, Madam President. The only truly important, structural, effective response to irregular migration and trafficking in human beings is the legal organization of migration. Portugal was, in fact, chosen and invited by the International Organization for Migration to be one of the two countries of the Northern Hemisphere champions in the implementation of the Global Pact for Migration, and it was with great honour and great pleasure that we responded positively to this invitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u35	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Meireles of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u36	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we know, Croatia is one of the most recent Member States, which came out of the bloody Balkan war in the 1990s and which, just after several years of negotiations, joined the European Union. On behalf of the PSD, I begin by wishing this Presidency the greatest happiness, as well as Prime Minister Plenkovic to lead the Council's destinations, in a context of mutual recovery and respect among the Member States. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u37	The Croatian Presidency has a very strong motto: a Europe in a world of challenges, a strong Europe, which is more modern than ever. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has listed the four priorities of the Croatian Presidency: a Europe that develops, binds, protects and is influential. And in an era of digital transformations, which are forever shaping our lives, I would say that the European Union faces challenges in the economy and in the world of truly important work. We speak in particular of digital sovereignty, which means taking into account the capacity that Europe must have to make its own choices, of course, but always based on its own values and respecting its own rules, especially in an era in which algorithms interfere with our lives and in which people's security and privacy issues are also on the agenda. Thus, no sector can afford to grow beyond technological knowledge, and now, more than ever, and above all, in public health. The first question is conjuncural. Europe and the world—there is nothing else said in recent times—are faced with the outbreak of COVID-19, which has already contaminated financial markets, stock exchanges and spread to more than 100 countries. Italy and France are moving towards the technical recession and the coronavirus—forgive me the expression—has already ‘cleaned up’ a few billion euros of the world's stock exchanges. Mr Minister, are you afraid that the Croatian Presidency will be able to take stock of this public health situation, which is also a test of the European Union and, of course, of all Member States? How do you expect to protect our economy from this problem, which, in fact, has already motivated meetings of the Minister of Health and the WHO itself? Today, I have also been very pleased that the European Council has met by teleconference, and the technological equation is beginning to enter this kind of emergency as well. It is that the crisis — I say — attacked the government where he was most disillusioned: in health. And one cannot think of facing an extraordinary situation with merely ordinary measures. My second question is political, social and humanitarian. It has already been mentioned here that Turkey is currently making an unacceptable blackmail with the European Union by threatening to open its borders, borders belonging to the territory of the European Union, in particular the Turkish-Greek border, when, in 2016, it received substantial financial amounts to combat the smuggling of these migrants into the territory of the European Union. And, attention, that are about three, five million Syrian refugees living in Turkey right now! Financial support has already been promoted to Greece, strengthening the Frontex, but Mr Minister, in the case of the Croatian Presidency, once again I will use a tea expression — I cannot account for the « hot potato » and the passage to the German Presidency, eventually we will still be at hand at the beginning of next year's presidency. Do you agree that this is a complex issue and that it is not enough to throw money on these problems? By the way, how are we dealing with the reception of unaccompanied migrants that we said we were going to receive? How many, how and by what means? Third and final point: Portugal's real convergence with regard to the European Union. The Competitiveness Forum foresees that GDP growth (gross domestic product) will slow to 1,7 % this year and next year and proposes the establishment of a working group just to analyse Portugal's bad results vis-à-vis the other cohesion countries. It is contradictory and worrying that the government « fills its mouth » by systematically talking about real convergence with the European Union, until Portugal is expected to become one of the four poorest countries of the European Union in 2024. Do you know how many times the word 'convergence' is mentioned in the Government Programme? Sixteen times! There are 16 references to the expression 'convergence' in the context of the European Union and the euro area. It is, above all, in a climate of crisis that the government should demonstrate what is worth, since it will not count on the easy popularity of the period of « turning the page of austerity », which has indeed been made, remember here by the Social Democratic Party. In 2020 and 2021 only Spain is expected to grow less than Portugal due to a number of inequalities, lack of opportunities, lack of political will. And for the government, this will be the « cotton test ». “Irritating optimism” does not happen in a state of mind. Portugal is not the Wonderland, but the country of the failure of socialist policies. For Alice, it was enough to dream of something else to make that dream come true; for the Portuguese, it is necessary to present results. And this time, Minister, I am sure that if the blame is not for the PSD, the government will quickly find another scapegoat. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u38	For an intervention, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Croatia assumes for the first time in this semester the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, whose priorities would be discussed here today — at least this was the objective — and whose motto, which is a good motto, is 'A strong Europe in a world of challenges'. Subject to this motto an idea of unity, which is, in fact, necessary for us to face the enormous and complex challenges. But life is what it is and, despite the ambition of this programme, the Croatian Presidency will be marked by two events: one of them, totally unexpected and the other, unfortunately expected. The first is the epidemic of COVID-19, an event, in fact, totally unexpected and that affects all of us, throughout Europe, all over the world. Yesterday, a video-conferencing meeting of the European Council was held, where important and urgent measures were taken. We must not ignore that this epidemic will test the European Union and its ability to remain strong and united, not only in coordination measures, to limit the spread of this virus as much as possible, but also in immediate solidarity, with regard to the provision of equipment and all that is necessary to due immediately to this disease, and also to the investment in measures to mitigate the impact that this epidemic will have on our economies. With regard to this latter aspect, it is urgent that this EUR 25 billion fund announced by the European Commission should reach the economy quickly. But it is also extremely important, Mr Minister, that the degree of ambition with regard to flexibility in the application of European State aid rules and the Stability Pact is real, so that Member States that invest in their health systems and help their businesses will not be penalized later on. The second event, which is not an unexpected event, is the migration situation that is now on the European Union's external border and in particular in Greece. Although it does not have great media coverage in Portugal, I am convinced that this will be the theme that will dominate the political agenda of the European Union in the coming months. One of the priorities of the Croatian Presidency is precisely the definition of an immigration policy not only based on strengthening border control and cooperation with third countries but also including a coherent and comprehensive approach to all internal and external aspects of immigration, including legal immigration and reform of the Common European Asylum System (ECAS). The truth, too, is that this is a repeated priority in recent years. And the feeling we have today is that Europe, five years later, is not prepared to face a flow similar to the one it had to face in 2015 / 2016. This image of the refugee camps on the Greek islands and of recent events reinforces this perception and also shows very well how Europe is today at a crossroads, in a dilemma, the dilemma of the choice between strengthening its external border or respecting the right of asylum and human rights. This is a dilemma that is lived daily. I recall last week's example of a commander of a Danish Navy patrol ship who refused to comply with the order given to him by Operation Poseidon Frontex to return 33 immigrants who had just rescued. And you refused why? Because he chose to respect human rights. But the events of the last week have also shown that the externalization of responsibilities in the protection of refugees is a factor of extreme vulnerability in Europe itself. Despite the relief achieved at the highest level meeting with President Erdogan, the truth is that it is not only Turkey that can at all times exert migratory pressure as a weapon of political pressure or even political blackmail. And we must not forget that today, in the vicinity of the European Union, there are thousands, not to say millions, of desperate people, who often have no alternative. It is not only Turkey which, in absolute terms, receives the largest number of refugees in the world. Lebanon is an absolute country that receives a much higher number of refugees than many European Union countries and which, in relative terms, is perhaps the country with the highest share of responsibility for the protection of refugees in the world. And Lebanon is in a bankruptcy situation, and it is therefore expected that this may also cause, in a short time, a huge exodus. It is therefore necessary for Europe to finally change its paradigm of immigration policy and not internalize fear — fear, often induced by public opinion, immigration and, in general, globalisation — but adopts a responsible policy that is not based solely on external border control, for the simple reason that migration is too complex and nothing can ever stop people's strength from being desperate. Therefore, whether we want to or not, we will welcome in the coming decades a greater or lesser number of people who will need to seek refuge and better living conditions in Europe. Therefore, it is time to change strategy. Instead of trying to stop what we cannot stop, we will manage the regular flows, instead of 'putting all the chips' into a policy that has not been producing results, as we see from day to day, we will change our paradigm and finally have a policy in which Europe assumes the imperative of its civilizational duties, respect for human rights and also recognise that immigration is not an evil, it is inevitable and it will always happen. And it will happen, first, as long as there are the factors that cause it — and these are known and are the same throughout the history of humanity — and secondly, as long as the European economy needs to work for its development. And we must not forget that today the European economy is also under enormous pressure from the demographic decline. We must therefore organize legal immigration pathways, which are the most rational and intelligent way to fight against clandestine immigration networks, which make human despair an admirable business, which, unfortunately, is enhanced by increasing controls at external borders, which simply increase — if we want, in a very economical language — the business margin of these same networks. Let us once and for all take up this issue in Europe with realism, pragmatism and, above all, respect for the fundamental values of our Europe, which we still want it to continue to be our Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u40	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two of the axes of the current Presidency, in terms of priorities, point to « a developing Europe » and « a binding Europe », but when we look around what we see in Europe is little development and even a regression to the fight against poverty. If there were any doubts, it would be enough to look at the recent study of the Eurofound on the poverty of those who work. According to this study, one in ten workers in the EU average is at risk of poverty. One of the announced goals of the 2020 Strategy is precisely the fight against poverty and social exclusion. But as usual in the European Union, it was just another announcement "to see" or rather "to see" and European workers continue to be pushed into situations of deep material deprivation, poverty and social exclusion. And if it is true that the unemployment rate has fallen, it is also true that jobs created do not respond to the essentials in order to allow people to escape poverty. The new labour relations that have been established are absolutely precarious, with minimal protection, when there is, and, as regards wages, it is almost always the minimum wage that it has to last. In other words, development, as a priority, remains only an announcement "for Europe to see". With regard to the other axis — 'a Europe that binds' — it is enough to take account of the European Union's migration policy, so that we are properly informed about the importance given to this axis. The European Union signed an agreement with the Government of Turkey in March 2016 to prevent the access of immigrant refugees to European territory. In other words, the European Union did not build a wall, but rented a door that wanted to be closed. And the results are in sight: the door has opened and the European Union is now waiting for the Turkish authorities to fulfil their obligations to have access to a financing of EUR 6 billion, which is the price of the closed door. In other words, 'the Europe that binds' is, after all, Europe that buys doors to close and rents forts to lift. These are the priorities of the European Union: a Europe that feeds on advertisements and intentions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u42	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we are less than 10 months from the beginning of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, the debate on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council is crucial. And speaking directly of priorities, we hope that in the coming months, during the Croatian and German presidencies, we can finally reach agreement on a new multiannual financial framework. We are still far from an agreement for a number of reasons, but the main thing is the devaluation of the value that membership of the European Union and the single market brings to all European peoples. This narrative of net contributor countries — or payers — versus receiving countries beyond demagogics is false. As will be seen in the short term, with the economic, financial and social consequences of Brexit, countries such as Germany or the Netherlands benefit greatly from the European project. Although they formally contribute more money to the European budget than they receive directly on the various programmes, the fact that all other countries buy more manufactured products, financial services, electronic components, among other products, goods and services, through the single market, makes their economies more resilient and robust. If the political leaders wanted or knew how to explain this to their citizens, it would be easier for us to reach an agreement and a higher budget, balanced and adapted to current challenges. Of course, for us, the greatest challenge is combating climate change. We no longer have even 10 years to stop this irrational model of production and consumption. If Europe does not lead, if it does not provide a Community budget that meets the climate emergency, we lose the opportunity to be the transformer pole of the world economy and we definitely put our existence at risk as a species. We know that the United States of America and China will only change their course if geopolitically and economically pressured by Europe. It is therefore essential that Europe be in leadership. And we must also lead the social rights pillar. At the beginning of next year an action plan will be presented for the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights, but already during the Croatian Presidency will begin preparatory work. This Pillar was proclaimed by all institutions in 2017 and enshrines principles and rights in three major areas: equal access and labour market opportunities, fair working conditions and social inclusion and protection. It is vital that Portugal fight for the practical application of these principles and that it guarantees all efforts to make reality something that can definitely improve the lives of millions of Europeans. But let us not deceive ourselves: currently, with the populist movements of right and left, supposedly anti-Europe, nothing is guaranteed. We hope that the Portuguese presidency will be a responsible engine for development, for affirming human rights, for an efficient and fair single market and for combating the impact of climate change to be the hat of all social and economic changes. I also endorse what has already been said here regarding the human rights of refugees and the fact that all Member States must mobilize efforts to guarantee these rights. We cannot ignore children who are currently subject to hunger, cold and violence in the context of war. in this sense, my question is whether there really is this political will. With regard to Permanent Structured Cooperation, which was established on 11 December 2017, through a Council decision, we have since witnessed the use of this cooperation as a motto for the construction of a European army. In our view, this is a dangerous path, which distorts the principle of European cooperation in matters of defence and security. And behind the smoking curtain of the PESCO ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ), the objectives appear to be clear by the European Commission. In Davos, President Von der Leyen commented that the European Union should strengthen its capacity for defence action and create a complementary and independent military structure of NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ). We well know that the President has been Minister of Defence in Germany and that in this mandate he joins the military industrial complex to strengthen appropriations, finance and research around the expansion of this death industry. And this is where we disagree with this strategy and these investments in the next multiannual financial framework. Investing in the war machine with the pacifist argument, instead of reinforcing the financing of a social, economic and cultural transition to a responsible and decarbonized development model well before 2050 is to dig our own grave. The values proposed in the multiannual framework are clear. The Commission proposal defines EUR 13 billion for the European Defence Fund. in this fund, 4, 1 billion euros are reserved for direct financing of research projects. In addition to the research phase, additional EUR 8, EUR 9 billion will be made available to complement Member States'investments, co-financing the development costs of prototypes and subsequent tests of these military investigations. That is, more surveillance, tanks, planes, weapons, more death and destruction. The militarism in his maximum exponent. Yes, we must invest in military cooperation between nations, but not make European militarism a priority. History has shown us, times and times without account, that violence is not the answer and strategy to divide and conquer, so prone to populist movements; it emerges with the creation of invisible enemies and widespread fear. So my question is whether or not the Minister sees this cooperation as a way to organize a European army. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u44	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. Carlos Eduardo Reis of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the world of uncertainties in which we live, of increasing risks and new threats to the security of people and their goods, providing security is an essential function of the State. Global terrorism, cyber-threatening, environmental and financial risks, economic asymmetries, natural disasters, lack of resources, ethnic and religious conflicts, civil wars in the vicinity of the European Union generating uncontrolled migration movements, corruption, money laundering and information theft are global challenges that require global solutions; they are changing threats that presuppose integrated responses. The armed forces of the 21st century cannot only be the guarantor of territorial integrity or national sovereignty, they must also be an active agent in promoting international security and the protection of citizens in peacetime, contributing, for example, to the stabilization of conflicts in regions of Africa and the Middle East, which affect European security, as well as in response to emergency situations in national territory, as happened in recent episodes of the fall of the Borba road or the fires of Pedrogão, through the reinforcement of emergency military units. Permanent Structured Cooperation is a response to global challenges and can, if fulfilled, be a global solution. This is a development expressly envisaged in the Treaty of Lisbon, which does not involve any transfer of sovereignty, maintaining an intergovernmental character and not entering into conflict with NATO, even helping to strengthen the so-called European pillar of the organization. At the time of its creation, the former Minister of Defence, Azeredo Lopes, said that the presence as a founding member was a unique opportunity that arose for Portugal and allowed our country « to be within to influence our interests ». Given this, the important thing here is to know what really interests Portugal in this process. A set of objectives, such as the establishment of a legal framework for investment in security and defence, which enables the participating States to improve their military capabilities through concerted initiatives, Portugal can and should view this as a great opportunity. And, in these opportunities, the sea, with our Atlantic vocation, the Lusophony as a preferential relationship, and the empowerment of our industry, through the European Defence Fund, are good betting areas. The sea is the most important strategic resource in our country, but it is also the most challenging one to national security. Portugal must step up relations with the European agencies which have as their mission the integrated defence of the oceans, as is the case with the European Maritime Safety Agency, ensuring balanced and sustained management of the resources of the sea. Safety must therefore also be an environmental protection tool. In addition, NATO values the Atlantic position of Portugal as a strategic vector for strengthening defence cooperation between North America and Europe. Our country must therefore lead in the European Union the defence of an external policy that complements and does not duplicate NATO's capabilities and missions, promoting the strengthening of the transatlantic link. The second opportunity is the one we find in the PALOP (African countries of Portuguese official language). Given the cultural and historical proximity to the countries of Lusophonia, Portugal must take its position as a preferred interlocutor on the issues that involve these countries in the framework of the common security and defence policy. The third big opportunity I want to address here, and that the Minister has already taken up, is related to the European Defence Fund. The 13 billion of this Fund should not be lost in large countries; it should serve the purpose of this idea of structured cooperation and the creation of a resilient society. The Portuguese State should lead initiatives that promote the resistance and combativity of modern societies, such as the establishment of the European Civil Protection Mechanism or the delivery of the civilian protection unit to the Armed Forces, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which assigns this type of mission to the Armed Forces, in Article 275 (6). o. The European Defence Fund should be explored by Portuguese companies, in conjunction with national defence bodies, with a view to strengthening the research and development of essential capabilities for patrol, surveillance, surveillance, maritime search and rescue activities, response to maritime accidents — including pollution — and support, protection and protection of persons and goods in emergency and disaster situations, from the coastal range to the limits of the continental shelf under our responsibility. Mrs. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a country that has been in the creation of NATO cannot remain in the queue of permanent structured cooperation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u46	That NATO went with Salazar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u47	The new risks are invisible. The lack of face requires comprehensive and integrated responses from state officials, but requires an intensification of citizens'education for these risks that generate insecurity, particularly in digital. These new risks are also unpredictable. We know what's going to happen and we can't help it. We must therefore work to prevent and mitigate its effects on the safety of citizens and their goods. If these designs are carried out, Europe will certainly lead the agenda of education to risk, involving everyone, through the mobilization of schools, universities, the media, the police, the armed forces, science and innovation. Permanent Structured Cooperation is a challenge and too great an opportunity for Portugal to refrain from creating conditions and being on the front line of defence and security, for people, not doing war and promoting peace. [[PSD applause.]] The President ( Edite Estrela ) : - Also for an intervention, Mrs Lara Martinho, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is important to start by stressing, in this debate, Portugal's commitment to the building of European identity of defence and permanent structural cooperation, by strengthening its military capacity and at the same time its defence industries in complementarity with the contribution to NATO, as the Minister well referred to in his initial intervention. Three years after the European Union adopted the comprehensive strategy in the field of security and defence, progress in this area is indeed obvious. The Union's strategic priorities are strengthened, in particular in response to external conflicts and crises, in the development of Member States' security and defence capacities and in the protection of the European Union and its citizens. The European Union has become a decisive player in the defence of multilateralism, transatlantic relations and a world order based on rules. And this statement is becoming increasingly fundamental, of course, because, in reality, the international environment has changed and continues to change. Since Crimea's annexation to the terrorist threat and the increasing instability at the borders, we are living in a permanent new paradigm of security and defence for which we must have answers. But reality also changes politically. For example, the increasingly unilateral position of the United States of America on the world scene is seen. We must not forget the new requirements in the field of cybersecurity and cyberdefence, which have also contributed to this greater investment in the security and defence of the Member States, raising the level of strategic cooperation and doing so with a clear political will which has also been manifested in the rapid decision-making of these matters. Several progress has been made in strengthening cooperation in the field of security and defence. To give some examples, see the implementation of the coordinated annual defence analysis which periodically monitors national defence plans, the strengthening of the civil aspect of the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union, which makes it more capable, effective and flexible, in addition to more concerted, among the Member States, which reinforces its contribution to international peace and stability. The construction of military planning and driving capacity within the framework of the EU's Greater State is also seen, a very important decision that responds to previously identified needs and helps to make European missions more effective outside the European Union. But see also the progress that is being made in the context of permanent structural cooperation. 46 projects were adopted. Portugal participates in 10 projects, two of which lead, and is still an observer in eight others. These projects, which have a strong link to the Defence Technology and Industrial Base, in a multidisciplinary approach that empowers the competitive participation of our national defence industry, are important for our country, and to enhance Portuguese participation in the CFSP, a support group was set up to define national priorities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we must follow up on further cooperation in the field of defence between the Member States, jointly developing our defence capabilities and making them available in accordance with our possibilities. In the case of Portugal, the internationalization of centres of competence is evidenced, including the Atlantic Centre. But in addition to the CFSP, it is still important to raise the European Defence Fund in order to help Member States manage their resources. This is a fundamental contribution to strengthening the strategic autonomy of the European Union and which is very important for the development of our national defence industry and economy and for the National Scientific and Technological System ( SCTN ). Finally, we must not fail to stress the creation of the European Peace Support Mechanism ( MEAP ) and the efforts, with concrete results, which are being developed within the framework of military mobility. It should also be pointed out that together with these developments we have witnessed unprecedented cooperation between the European Union and NATO with the realization of 74 common actions relating to the joint declarations of 2016 and 2018. These results clearly demonstrate that the development of a strong Europe does not fall to the detriment of the Atlantic Alliance. Indeed, in the last three years, we have seen significant progress in the field of security and defence of the European Union. These are progress towards the European Union and, at the same time, Portugal and the world, where Europe takes the lead in climate, aid for the development of international trade and, decisively, security and defence, among others. The road is still long, but the results of the last three years show a change in history in terms of European cooperation in security and defence. We are counting on the Portuguese Presidency to deepen this global strategy of the European Union and, in particular, the new strategic compass initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u49	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Combating 'Europe fort' is to implement measures that guarantee solidarity between States, based on responsibilities for the reception of refugees, of people who flee from death and who seek better living conditions. Greece faces the challenge of being the shield of Europe. Europe does not need a shield, it needs public policies that respond to the humanitarian crisis that has been exacerbating and becoming increasingly serious. The reception of refugees is a task that must mobilize all Member States in order to place the dignity of people in the face of security policies. The refugee camps are bursting through the seams, welcoming more people than their capacity and people are subjected to situations of violence, deprivation and suffering. It is urgent to give political centrality to the reception and integration of refugees, as well as to combat their vulnerabilities. Given Portugal's recognition of this priority, the Portuguese Government has established an agreement with Greece which allows the reception of 1,000 refugees. But the operationalization of this agreement is delayed and it needs to be implemented. We need to know how to welcome refugees, how to correct the shortcomings that have been recognised by the Portuguese Government and by the refugee representative associations, regarding reception and ensuring that these people have their dignity recognized. On the other hand, it is also necessary to understand how Portugal will implement the Voluntary Resettlement Programme, for 1100 refugees, with which it committed itself to UNHCR ( United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ). Refugees count and cannot be left behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u51	Let us turn to the end of this debate. To that end, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, first of all, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the Greens have been saying, the European Union continues to turn its backs on the interests of the European people, because its great concern has long since ceased to be the citizens and became the bankers and bankers. If the European Union has long removed such important concepts as'solidarity' from its vocabulary, it is now preparing another blow to cohesion policies, which will have very negative effects on an economy like ours, in which Community funds play a decisive role. We therefore look forward to the strongest opposition from the Portuguese Government to the proposal for the multiannual financial framework. Moreover, this proposal only confirms that social causes and also many environmental causes are less and less for the European Union. On the one hand, the strengthening of the European Union's militarization path, linked to the obsessive creation of a common army in a framework of service to NATO, is another example of the secondaryization of social matters. The complicity and even participation of the European Union in military interventions of aggression and interference in recent decades...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u53	Give an example!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u54	... demonstrate well the logic and the consequences of this belligerent policy. It is a path that, in everything, distances from the promotion of peace, the same promotion of peace which, curiously, represented the initial objective of the present European Union and which is at its origin, with the creation of the ECSC, the European Coal and Steel Community, as a way to control the main raw materials indispensable to war. This European Union, which began to be built with the aim of promoting peace, is now transformed into an active subject with regard to military financing. On the other hand, the prospect of increasing this military component implies increasing spending on defence or, better, aggression, withdrawing the ability to invest in key areas for the well-being and for improving the living conditions of the peoples of the Member States. It is in this context that the so-called Permanent Structured Cooperation emerges with the aim of strengthening the military domain, involving, among other things, the intensification of military capabilities and equipment, greater expenditure in this area, the provision of more combat units and out there. But this is no priority for the peoples of Europe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u55	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u56	...no need for the Portuguese people, even though it is a very desirable business for the military industry, in which, for example, Germany and France are interested in calling on the other Member States to finance it. In addition, Permanent Structured Cooperation is another significant step towards the loss of State sovereignty and the concentration of decision-making power in the major powers of the European Union at the level of foreign and military policy. For this reason, the Greens continue to consider that the Assembly of the Republic should have opposed our country's accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation, going to meet the interests of the Portuguese people, in particular by defending a Europe where unemployment and poverty lead to solidarity, which can create effective links of social cohesion, where service to large multinationals gives rise to sustainable development, with solidarity between peoples and citizens, and where the construction of the arsenal of aggression gives rise to instruments of progress that promote peace. It was precisely for this purpose that the Greens presented in 2017 a legislative initiative for this House to recommend to the Government that Portugal not accede to permanent structured cooperation. It happens that this proposal, as in other cases, of other banks, but in the same sense, did not receive from PS, PS, and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u57	Luckily!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u58	It would, in our view, be an excellent contribution to the promotion of peace in Europe and in the world, but these benches did not understand it that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u60	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, we should reflect on what Europe wants, i.e. whether we want a militarized Europe, or not, humanitarian, or not, focused on combating climate change, or not. The decision on the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is precisely one of these opportunities for reflection. In fact, we want a Europe that develops, binds, protects and influences. Portugal, like other countries in the European Union, faces today's climate, demographic and social challenges that should not be underestimated. The funds from the European funds can and should prioritize the decarbonisation of the economy, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, the reduction of regional asymmetries and the promotion of peace itself and the guarantee of human rights. The European project must respond to these concerns, which are not a distant reality, but the present of all people. Europe must not only be prepared to face the major natural disasters that may occur, and the frequency of which is expected to increase due to climate change, but also situations such as those we currently live with COVID-19, which have obvious impacts on health and also on national and global economies. I end by reaffirming the importance of, despite the fact that each Member State has its own internal challenges, we will therefore not fail to help people, such as refugees, who are in an unequal human drama, promoting their acceptance and the existence of adequate and rapid humanitarian responses. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u62	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate has ended up being quite conditional on what is the current reality and the answer the European Union is giving to the question of COVID-19. On this issue, we have alerted, and we continue to warn, to the risk that the European Union will again not be able to meet, as it should, in order to give a complementary European response, and articulated with the response of each Member State, that it would actually allow in the European context to add something. To do so, the answer would have to be more timely but it was late; it would have to be clearer but it would still be misleading; it would have to be more efficient but, so far, we have no guarantee that it will achieve greater efficiency than it has had in the past. We have given a very clear example, which has to do with one of the programmes that most relate the new generations to the European Union: the ERASMUS programme. We are grateful for Mr Foreign Minister's explanation, however, that it would be important, at European level, to have the ability to explain to the families of these students, for example, what is happening and what must happen. By now, Mr Minister, each Member State — and Portugal, in particular — should have the availability to provide this information and to go with it. Europe and the whole world now face enormous challenges, such as ensuring public health and thus defending the lives of citizens and, after that, the ability to protect the economy and avoid a new recession. Also on this issue, the European answer is decisive, but so far we have not seen, as the markets have not seen until today, any consequence of the European response or the efficiency it can have. But this debate was at the outset on permanent structured cooperation and on the Croatian Presidency. On the first point, we would like to say that, of course, we recognize as important the guarantees given here — that, for us, they are essential for this policy to continue — that the creation of a European army will never be involved. That is something we reject at all and that was a condition for us to review in this policy. Another fundamental issue for us is that there is no duplication between the European defence policy and the participation of Portugal in NATO. What is there from a European point of view—and that we stand for—is a strengthening of the European pillar of NATO, which is of course relevant not only to Europe, but to all the allies and to all the defence policy in which we participate. We highlight an important point of what Mr. Minister for Defence said here: with the next multiannual financial framework, on the eve of the European Defence Fund, it is important to know that there are Portuguese companies expressing interest in having projects under this fund. This is relevant to the national economy and, of course, from the point of view of national defence, it is also important to have Portuguese companies with this capacity in the context of this European fund. We would also like to highlight the importance of cyberdefence, surveillance and ocean control, which are crucial for our country. With regard to the Croatian Presidency, and to conclude, I refer to three important points. As regards the multiannual financial framework, Mr Foreign Minister once again stated that Portugal's position is to support a solution between the Commission's initial position and Parliament's initial position. It would be a good solution, but that has not been the way here. The question is the same as always: if it does not happen what Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned here, will Portugal use all the means at its disposal? In particular, will you, or will you not, use the veto right that you have, for the solution not to be within the frame that has been laid down?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u64	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u65	I will finish, Madam President. Finally, even with regard to the priorities, as regards Green Deal and the digital transition, it is also fundamental...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u66	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u67	... to ensure national interest both in the guarantees to Portuguese companies regarding this adaptation, or in the vocational training of our workers so that they can be prepared for this digital transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u69	Thus, we will defend national interest and participate efficiently in the European project. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u70	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to mention three specific points at the end of this debate. The first has to do with the consequences that may arise from the current epidemic COVID-19. We do not want to contaminate the parliamentary debate on this issue, about everything and nothing, but this is a problem that does not know the borders of the European Union, although it is a very serious problem for several countries of the European Union, and also because we have a valuable resource to combat this epidemic, which is the National Health Service. It is, above all, at this level that we have to deal with this issue. But there are economic consequences that are likely to arise from the current situation, which is unpredictable as far as this goes and what concrete consequences it will have. The question that needs to be put at European level is this: if there is a need for additional investment of means and resources to address the consequences, not only health but also economic, especially in the real economy — more than the virtual money held in the stock exchanges, we are concerned about the consequences in the real economy which, of course, leads to the need for an increased investment by the State — what will be the attitude of the Portuguese Government in front of the European Union? If the possible breach of the convergence criteria set out in the Stability Pact serve as a pretext for a new aggression to the Portuguese people through austerity, as happened following the 2009 crisis, it was important that there was a very clear position on the part of the European governments, and particularly on the part of the Portuguese Government. The second question concerns refugees. The crisis of refugees that has been occurring in recent years and which is now experiencing a further worsening is a clear example that « who sows wind reaps storms ». The European Union has actively helped to dismantle the Libyan State, has been actively involved in the aggression against Syria and has sought to solve the problem of the humanitarian catastrophe created with the book of checks, paying Turkey to contain the flow of refugees. However, in the light of the new developments in this serious humanitarian crisis, it is important that the European Union and Portugal, as the State of the European Union, should not fail to assume their political, social and humanitarian responsibilities in this regard for the reception of refugees seeking survival conditions at the borders, and that the countries of the European Union should be able to escape the catastrophic situation that has been created in their respective countries. We understand that Portugal must not fail to assume its responsibilities. The third and final issue, Madam President, is that of the multiannual financial framework. There is at first a very large consensus that the proposal on the table for the multiannual financial framework is unacceptable for Portugal. It is unacceptable for the injury that causes economic and social cohesion, seriously affecting the interests of Portugal. Therefore, it is necessary to reject this proposal very firmly, insofar as the resources to be channeled to cohesion are obviously insufficient to reverse the divergent dynamics that have occurred and which is the result of the integration process in the European Union, in which the divergence between the various States, badly covered by cohesion funds, is accentuated. Thus, there is a worsening of cohesion policy, of course, asymmetries could only get worse. It should be noted that time runs for the enemies of cohesion. The more they manage to secure a favourable agreement to countries such as Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u73	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, the more time they can protect, the better are the conditions that they have to impose unacceptable solutions. It is therefore necessary for the Portuguese State to take a position of great firmness in defending a true policy of economic and social cohesion in the European Union. [[PCP and PEV MP Mariana Silva applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The motto of the Croatian Presidency is « A strong Europe in a world of challenges ». We know that the meaning of this phrase has changed not only in the last few weeks, but until the last few minutes, now that the World Health Organization (WHO) has officially decreed that we are facing a pandemic situation. This sentence and this situation demonstrate not only the priorities of the Croatian Presidency but also the future of Europe, a Europe we want to be united, courageous and supportive. Europe faces unexpected challenges, which add up to a structural problem. The climate and refugee crises are now adding not only to the outbreak of this disease, which has already killed hundreds of people in the European Union and thousands of infected people, but also to the economic, financial and social crisis, which once again obscures the global horizon. Europe, European solidarity, is again put to the test, as is the true charity of the policies that we are capable of developing. We remember how Europe saved banks in 2008, but condemned people to austerity. Will we repeat these mistakes with the current crisis? Leaving out action proposals that include social support that save income and respond to the crisis is again to leave people behind. Do we need cooperation? Yeah. Do we need answers to the economy? Yeah. But we also need policies that respond on the health side, with investment in quality responses for all people and scientific research never before seen, so that the knowledge that enables us to owe this new virus can be reached. We must also respond to measures protecting people from an economic crisis. We cannot accept that it is the people to pay again. We cannot respond to the crisis by further undermining labour relations or exacerbating gender inequalities, which persist not only in order but also in the everyday lives of European citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u77	What Europe do we want? The reality puts us to the test and it will be the answers that we choose for this question that will define us for history. Looking at the borders where the walls rise, as in Bulgaria, or for refugees who are received with tear gas or rubber bullets, as in Greece, we realize that the European Union is failing in some of its fundamental challenges. An influential Europe cannot be the one that subcontracts the outsourcing of borders, while still selling military technology.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u79	If, on the one hand, there are positive aspects, such as climate law, which is a starting point launched by the Croatian Presidency and which will have a possible conclusion in the Portuguese Presidency - we hope - on the other hand, there is the idea that we can and should go further. In fact, even now, questions arise about the size of the step we are taking. Greta Thunberg also said last week in the European Parliament that we are giving up, that the new Green Deal and, in particular, the European climate law are a step backwards, admitting the failure of this European Union proposal. Will we be able to attack with the courage and solidarity needed the changes? Will Portugal be able to understand its role in this challenge? The response to the crises we are experiencing, from the COVID-19 to the prospect of an economic and social crisis, from the climate emergency to the response to refugees, will define what is desired of the European Union. from the Left Block, they already know the answer to each of these crises: rejecting both authoritarianism and indifference, fighting militarism and « Europe fortitude», we will leave no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u80	For an intervention, Mr Sérgio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u81	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After all the way in the economic field, European integration was lacking a dimension of security and defence, which has even become essential in the context of new and complex threats and major changes in the international situation. Without American and NATO protection, Europe would be a vulnerable and defenseless continent. It therefore makes every sense that the European Union is making every effort to strengthen its security and protection and to protect its citizens, with a view to its strategic autonomy. Permanent Structured Cooperation is the latest step towards this goal. The CEP expresses the will of the EU, in an ambitious but realistic way, cooperation in the area of security and defence, which cannot fail to be made in a logic of conciliation, coordination and complementarity with NATO leading to the formation of a European common army.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u83	By respecting these limits, moreover, established in resolution of this House, Portugal has done well to participate, from the very outset, in this process of cooperation. It will be the opportunity to contribute to the strengthening of the EU's Atlantic component, now derailed by Brexit, and to highlight our most relevant strategic resource : the sea that fills and surrounds our territorial triangle – continent, Azores and Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u85	On the other hand, the CEP represents a unique opportunity for Portugal to modernize our Armed Forces, in the sense of its best attachment and operationality. This is why there are concerns about the recurrent news, some coming from the military environment itself, about a fierce lack of resources of all order in which our Armed Forces are debating. This serious shortage can compromise our full participation in the CEP and the fulfilment of several obligations in it. I am obliged to increase the level of investment expenditure and the level of research, development and innovation in the area of defence. It would thus also be committed to our access to the European Defence Fund and to the development of our technological and industrial base in the defence sector, of which it would be more beneficial for our whole economy, for the growing involvement of new SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) in activities linked, in particular, to the aeronautical cluster, to the shipbuilding industry, to cyberdefense, to textiles, etc. Portugal cannot miss this opportunity to boost its economic growth. Yeah, we're growing up, but not enough. Yes, we are converging with the European average, but not enough to avoid being overcome by several Cohesion Countries. When we have enjoyed unique conditions of growth, our ambition to move forward in the EU is poor. In recent years, Lithuania, Slovakia, Estonia and Poland have already come forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u86	Not Slovakia!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u87	At this rate it will not be long before we are back on the tail of Europe. And it should not be said, as the Prime Minister has recently done, that these are the obligations arising from our accession to the single currency which conditions our growth prospects or our huge public debt. Several EU countries are growing much more than we and the current, historically low interest rate have removed the big obstacle that the huge public debt could constitute. Above all, it is endogenous factors that government policies cannot overcome, which limit our growth. For example, reverse the work reform done by the PSD/CDS government, as seems to require the Left Block to the PS to restore management and we'll all see how we're going to grow even less! Yes, what is imperative to reverse is this direction of relative impoverishment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u88	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Oneto of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that today has brought us together in the particular context of new challenges for Europe, in which COVID-19 and the situation of migrants from the borders of Turkey and Greece emerged on the European Agenda and, on the one hand, accentuates the overall nature of the new threats and risks and, on the other hand, the weaknesses resulting from the absence of a European policy of migration and asylum, which can only reinforce calls for urgent consensus on our common future. We live at a time when Member States direct public resources to the health sector, to protect populations, businesses and our economies, which means assessing, day by day, the socio-economic impact resulting from the spread of the virus and imposes the flexibility of European budgetary rules to mitigate its effects and to ensure that Member States will not be penalised by the investment that is now required. It is at this particular moment that it is revealed in a pressing way that only a united and cohesive Europe, based on its fundamental values, can project our future. And in this context, the new multiannual financial framework is an added requirement, in particular because, if we want a new vision for Europe to meet the new challenges, we cannot abdicate what we have built here together and sacrifice the Common Agricultural Policy and Cohesion. Therefore, we cannot help but support the effort that the Portuguese Government has made in seeking a consensus that enables a multi-year financial framework to guarantee the future we want for Europe, confident that bilateral meetings, like today, with Chancellor Merkel, can deepen the path to the agreement claimed by the 17 Friends of Cohesion countries, now called « Friends of an ambitious Europe ». We therefore need a budget corresponding to this European ambition, which means that we need to invest in more research and development, in combating climate change, in digital transition, in cooperation with other continents, in security, without prejudice to the already consolidated path. We need to overcome the differences in matters that are still fundamental in the European Union: a common defence policy and a true European pact for migration and asylum. Permanent Structured Cooperation is a necessary instrument of European defence policy. We must not forget that the defence of communities is always the common trait of all peoples. And it is in this cooperation that each State also reinforces the defence of its sovereignty, defending its interests but protecting itself from common threats. It is therefore important that, within the framework of the definition of Permanent Structured Cooperation, there is a clear definition on which the real common threats, in order to ensure the cooperation and development of projects that are essential to European defence. We also refer here to the relevance of the involvement of national parliaments in monitoring this process. It is this parliamentary participation, on the one hand, to ensure the European interest of the joint projects and on the other, so that such developments do not question the sovereignty of each Member State. I shall conclude by not fail to mention and point out the whole debate here, both around Permanent Structured Cooperation and around the main concerns of the European Union at this time, in order to have a multi-annual financial framework that enables us to face the challenges of the future and also what is the policy of migration and asylum. These are areas that I have not seen being mentioned here, but I would like to stress the commitment the Portuguese Government has had and the way Portugal is internationally recognized in these areas, either in its migration policy or in what it has done over these years, even in matters of joint peace missions, welcomed by Nato, the UN,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u91	I will now finish, Madam President. ... by the European Union. And here we should also give a word to those of our soldiers of the Republican National Guard and of the Maritime Authority, who defend peace and often stabilize what is at the root of the problems that often follow...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u92	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u93	...what we then see in the field of migration. That is why I must point out that if Europe has a joint course in this area, Portugal, for a long time with this government, knows which way to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u94	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Defence, João Gomes Cravinho, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our sovereignty and our interests are best promoted through close collaboration with our allies, with our partners. The idea of ‘ proudly alone’ — a sad idea and the disastrous results that are known — is not imaginary in the times we live in. We cannot promote the exercise of our sovereignty,... [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ...we cannot promote our interests unless they are in cooperation with the countries that are close to us. The Assembly of the Republic has established, in the resolution that approved our participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation — and well — that this could never be a step towards the creation of the European army. This is not a step towards creating a European army.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u96	That's not bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u97	Portugal totally rejects this idea and is very well accompanied by this measure by a large majority of European countries. It does not therefore have to do with this, but with the entry of Portugal with cooperative security mechanisms in an increasingly complex world, increasingly contested, increasingly interconnected. Portugal has no option of withdrawing from the world and going to live for an hermit, as if he were a monk in spiritual retreat. That's not an option we have. On the contrary, the paradox of our time is that our sovereignty and our interests are better defended when we are allies and in collaboration with others. Portugal's participation in the PESCO, in permanent structured cooperation, is one of the mechanisms that exists to develop and promote our interests and is in this spirit that we are involved in strengthening our capabilities and strengthening European defence capacities. We understand that strengthening European defence capabilities contributes to the European defence identity, which in turn contributes to Portugal's security. At the same time, we understand that the PESCO represents a vehicle through which NATO's European pillar can be strengthened. Finally, we also believe that our defence industries, which are increasingly an important part of our national economic fabric, should participate in this process. The challenges ahead require new capabilities, but the traditional mechanisms and capacities we need to develop are appropriate to meet them. We have double use of many of our military capabilities and many of the capacities to be developed within the framework of the PESCO have to do with the possibility of dual use. Therefore, the PESCO represents a fundamental reference to our ability to defend ourselves either from the military point of view or from the point of view of the set of threats that affect the Portuguese population. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u98	To close this debate, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, it is necessary to note a very positive feature of the Portuguese political system, which is the broad consensus that, in terms of national defence, European construction and foreign policy policies in general, is clear. for my part, I would like to emphasize three essential points that shape this consensus in the face of the most dramatic issues we are living today. Starting with the response to the now COVID-19 pandemic, it is clear that we have withdrawn the advantage of European consultation at this stage of containment, of the first response, and the importance of the decisions already taken by the European Council with regard to the strengthening of scientific research is also evident because we expect in the short term the discovery of a vaccine and other means of combating this new virus, but also of strengthening the capacities of European health systems. Here too is the importance of an essential element of the European social model, which is the existence of strong, non- privatisable public systems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u100	We've heard that conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u101	...that are a response of the collective, as such, to the problems of human security that we face at every moment. Some questions have been asked about the financial consequences. In the light of the rules of economic and monetary union, the additional costs we will have in the fight against coronavirus or COVID-19 are typically, in the light of the rules of economic and monetary union themselves, expenditure called off, temporary, private and singular expenditure which, as such, does not count for the determination of the rules of budgetary discipline that are ours. I would also like, if I may, to correct a little, since, in yesterday's European Council decisions, concerns about spreading the virus and the consequences for the European economy, in particular for travel, tourism and industrial sectors that depend on global chains, are also evident, insofar as these consequences do not result in loss of income for families, employment and wages. Rightly, the decisions we have taken at national level also have this essential concern. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, let us not make the coronavirus an opportunity to combat political violence against this or that, much less for the political wear of the government, because this is our responsibility, it is a national and European problem, which we can only face together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u102	And we all pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u103	This time in Europe also reinforces the importance—as Mrs Cristina Rodrigues said very well—of the European leadership in the world, in defining its social model, in the way scientific research and public health systems are valued, but also the clear priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, which are already known and expressed well. So let me rest with you, because precisely the European pillar of social rights, the social agenda, the clear awareness that only social Europe can overcome the challenge of ecological transition and digital transition, will be a fundamental guideline of our Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Finally, questions relating to migration policy and the reception of refugees. There is one element that will also allow me to correct, because these are two facts: refugees, people who are now leaving new parts of Syria, such as Idlib, are not being pursued by the European Union, are fleeing indiscriminate bombings of the Syrian regime, including bombings at schools and hospitals. We need to be clear about this, because otherwise it seems that it is the European Union that causes refugees, that it is the European Union that starts wars and that it is the European Union that challenges the rules of international law. It is also not true that the agreement made in 2016 between the European Union and Turkey was to avoid smuggling of migrants. contrary to what Mrs Isabel Meireles said, the essential part of this agreement is to support non-governmental organizations in their refugee support and integration programmes. That is why the EUR 6 billion we ask European taxpayers to use. And precisely this tactic of the President of Turkey, using people as a political weapon, which is to remove the logic of this programme, which we must maintain, revising the aspects that are indispensable to review.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u104	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u105	I shall conclude, Madam President. The Portuguese position was greeted by several benches, and I thank this greeting, because the Portuguese position, at no time, offered some doubt or expressed some ambiguity. Yes, Portugal was one of the five European countries who first said 'yes' to the reception of people who are in most vulnerable circumstances in this crisis, i.e., unaccompanied minors, 'yes', we have always said it to all of the European Commission's efforts to distribute by the migrant Member States rescued in the Mediterranean Sea, and 'yes' we have met and we will continue to fulfil all the commitments we have made, either from the point of view of reception of refugees, which is a legal obligation, from the point of view of the construction of migration policies, which, as Mrs Urban Constanza de Sousa said, should serve to organize migration and, therefore, because they organize migration, combat networks and combat traffickers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u106	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the assessment of the Bill No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) No 2017 / 828 on the rights of listed shareholders with regard to their long-term involvement. To open the debate, I have the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, whom I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The financial crisis has revealed inadequacies in the governance of companies to which it is important to respond. If it is important to avoid taking too many risks by companies it is also essential to ensure clear and transparent remuneration to their managers, such remuneration which corresponds to their performance in the medium and long term. It is also essential to ensure greater involvement of shareholders in business life, to ensure that shareholders exercise their rights and have all the information necessary to do so. However, this has not always happened and often actions are held through financial intermediaries or institutional investors. The business government must be improved and contribute to its sustainability and the shareholders have an absolutely fundamental role there. The bill we present today transposes the shareholders' rights directive, promotes greater involvement between companies and their shareholders, strengthens control over the remuneration of managers and imposes greater transparency. The listed companies become clearly acquainted with their shareholders and have access to relevant information about their relationship with the company. This proposal also ensures a greater exchange of information between listed companies and their shareholders, who become more informed. Financial intermediaries, such as banks, are obliged to transmit information to shareholders, which the company is obliged to provide for the exercise of the rights of these shareholders, but such intermediaries are also obliged to transmit to companies the positions of their shareholders in the exercise of their rights, in particular their voting rights. Institutional investors, such as insurance companies, but also financial intermediaries and asset managers, are obliged to disclose the policy of involvement with shareholders, including their involvement in their investment strategy, and to account for how they apply this policy and strategy, in particular by disseminating their sense of vote in general assemblies, when they do so on behalf of shareholders. The relevant transactions with related parties that do not relate to the business or are not carried out under market conditions are subject to disclosure by the board of directors and their managers. The listed companies must adopt a remunerative policy of the members of their board of directors which is approved by the General Assembly and which is binding. In fact, this was a national option in contrast to the possibility of the general assembly being merely consultative. The proposal presented to you also determines the disclosure of the annual report which will provide an overview of the remuneration of managers, including all benefits, regardless of their form. The performance of managers is crucial to the success of companies and therefore also the remuneration policy needs to adapt to a framework of greater transparency in the provision of accounts. Shareholders shall determine the remuneration of the managers they choose, as this will ensure a clearer link between remuneration and performance, favouring long-term oriented business strategies. The remuneration policy should reflect the interests of shareholders, promote business sustainability and therefore be approved by the General Assembly. The company should be able to require the refund of variable remuneration to managers who do not pursue the objectives defined in a sustainable manner, thus also increasing scrutiny, in particular on variable remuneration, benefits and pension schemes, and the remuneration report will be available on the listed companies' website for at least 10 years. The transposition of the shareholder rights directive makes it easier for shareholders in the countries of the European Union to participate and vote in general meetings of businesses in other Member States, promoting investment throughout Europe and thus being another step in European integration, in promoting savings, in promoting investment and economic growth, including quality employment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, shareholders should play a decisive role in defining governance, defining business strategy and defining their social and environmental role, as well as in paying managers. This is the only way to promote sustainable investment and business orientation for long-term objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In all areas of its work, we objectively have an out-of-term government, a government that is always late and bad hours and that is why it is constantly forced to run after the damage. This is also the case with regard to finance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth — I repeat, the fifth — proposal for transposition of the directive which takes place on a later basis. It should be recalled that the transposition of the directive we are discussing today, known as the Shareholders' Directive II, should have entered into force on 10 June 2019. It is unfortunate that this has not happened, since its constant concerns and objectives, which deal with the governance of listed companies in the stock market, are of the greatest relevance and relevance. And why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because they remind us that in order to face a financial crisis it is necessary to have a strategy, it is necessary to adopt the best policies, it is necessary to encourage thinking more in the long term and less in short-term objectives, that all this applies in relation to the governance of societies as should be applied daily to the Government of the Republic. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To facilitate the identification of shareholders, to simplify the exercise of their rights, to improve transparency in relations with investors and to strengthen shareholder control over the remuneration policy of administrators, are the objectives present in this directive which go in the desired direction. The transposition of this directive is, in the present context, very relevant, as we have already mentioned. However, what the Portuguese now expect and wish is not only the mere transposition of the rules of the corporate government but that the government responds to its concerns in its governance on sustainable and long-term strategies and measures to deal with unexpected and possible crises. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Portuguese hope and wish is for the government to do so as soon as possible and not to be late again. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u110	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: A "Liberal Minute" a little more conciliatory today, given the nature of the matter and the public health emergency we are living. The transposition of this directive and this proposal for a law, trying to overcome shortcomings in such important things as the identification of shareholders, transparency of investors, shareholder control of remuneration policy, transactions between related parties, will deserve our agreement, not before making two comments: here and beyond, this directive and the proposed law that it transposes show that the people who have written it have very little idea of what is a large company, namely a large listed company, because there are several measures that greatly increase the reporting needs and bureaucracy without increasing the control and participation of shareholders. The best illustration of this is the articles on remuneration policy, which will not satisfy anyone except, perhaps, that special category of wage voyeurs. Finally, one question: why did the final drafting of various articles of the Securities Code and the General System of Collective Investment Agencies not accept the suggestions of the Portuguese Investment Funds Association, Pensions and Heritages, thus harming Portuguese local agents vis-à-vis their European counterparts? Why go beyond the directive and harm the local agents?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u112	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Proposal for Law No 12 / XIV / 1. the directive it transposes proclaims a set of good intentions, but of good intentions is the full hell! We have nothing against the creation of greater conditions of participation of shareholders in the governance of societies and nothing prevents us from having greater transparency between managers and shareholders. We will not be opposed to the fact that there is any limitation on the remuneration of the owners of the administrative and supervisory bodies, nor do we even dispute that there is a need for a longer-term perspective in the management of companies, the problem is that the bill ignores that, often, it is precisely the shareholders who want a strategy that ensures short-term profits. Another problem is that we are talking about a very limited universe of companies. It is only 55 listed entities in the stock exchange and it is to this universe that this bill is addressed. Large companies such as TAP, Brisa, Banco Montepio, among many others, are out of business, which do not, because they are not listed, provide some discipline in the area of governance. What is now intended as regards the remuneration of managers is based on the principle of seeking to align the long-term interests of society and its shareholders. This means that, when shareholders and managers are aligned, as is often the case, with the sole aim of producing the greatest possible profits in the shortest possible term, stellar wage packages can continue to exist, provided they are decided in the general assembly. There is an obligation to have codes of conduct, but what are the practical effects of this? The fundamental question is another one, and it is related to the essence of globalised capitalism, the free movement of capital and the increasing inequalities in the distribution of income, and on that neither the European directive nor this bill change anything substantial. In the field of fantasy, the explanatory statement states that this bill will « promote growth and job creation ». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, the scope of what is proposed here is so limited that the most sure thing is to have no effect on growth or employment, much less on what is decisive: a fairer redistribution of wealth created. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The proposed law that the government brings to us adds some rules of transparency in the relationship between shareholders and administrators and the administration of listed companies, but that's all — end of conversation! The proposal does not change the system and will certainly not serve what it says it serves and will therefore certainly not prevent these companies from being led by short-term logics, which aim only to supply their resources to companies or, alternatively, to manage these companies so that they produce a higher value in stock exchange to boost short-term gains. This is the essence of the financial system, that is the essence of the economic system as it is designed today: many investors invest in companies not with a view to their production within 30 years, not with a view to the interests of the company, the economy and the maintenance of jobs within 30 years, but with a view to today's profit in the stock market, and for this it does so whether this profit is achieved with better production prospects or whether it is achieved with leverage and profit-threatening operations. That is why companies are managed. Therefore, while we note that there are positive advances in transparency, which, as has already been said, apply only to listed companies, leaving out large companies that are not, we will be realistic about the purposes of this directive and its chances of success. Is this proposal going to prevent international investment funds, stock funds, which only want to have profits in a cask and in an extended portfolio of companies, from sucking Portuguese companies or any other listed companies? Is this the proposal that will prevent CTTs from distributing dividends, which they do not have, going to the capital itself and the reserves of CTTs to please their shareholders? Was this proposal that would prevent Ricardo Salgado from using PT, conditioning his operations, to gain profits and save his empire? It is not and it is appropriate that we have this notion, assuming with realism that they are important proposals in the field of transparency but that they are only that and will not, in any way, alter the rules of operation of the financial capitalist system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u116	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Government submits a bill for the transposition of a directive, this time concerning the governance of societies, and the first thing it would like to record is the following: above all in this financial and fiscal area, we have discussed transpositions of directives in numbers which are not small, at this beginning of legislation. I understand that there are deadlines for the transposition of directives—but also, finally, it is the government who chooses to make the transpositions always over the deadline—that it is good to realize, especially in complex matters such as these, that the fact that we are discussing the transpositions into the speciality in catadoupa is not going to help the discussion on the speciality to be well done. On the contrary, it will make it difficult, because the pressure of time and the fact that there are many discussions in the specialty will not lead to things being done in the best way. Secondly, we are obviously in line with the objectives that the Government identifies, but what we need to ask — and from there my concern about the specialty — is whether what the Government is proposing are the most effective measures to achieve these objectives. on our part, we have the biggest doubts that excessive regulation, I would even say hyper-regulation, in financial matters, is the best way to manage abuses. We all know that a lot went so that it shouldn't have happened and so there is a temptation to prevent all cases through legislation, but what I ask is whether this natural temptation, which I recognize, will be the best way to prevent some bad practices. On the other hand, the opinions accompanying the bill show that some concerns, both technical and litigious — in these matters litigation has been excessive and, once again, hyper-regulation is not good advisor— must be cautious. Therefore, on our part there will obviously be agreement with the objectives of the government, full openness to discuss technically the solutions and we hope that, in the specialty, we can arrive not only at the best solutions but also at the simplest solutions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u118	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the transposition of the second directive on the rights of shareholders of listed societies, a complex but important issue for the sustainability of the Portuguese economy. It should be remembered that this directive and the proposed law that seeks its transposition seek, through a greater involvement of shareholders in listed societies, to avoid repeating the errors that occurred during the economic and financial crisis of 2008, in which the lack of this involvement brought an excessive focus on short-term gains, which brought widely known serious consequences. Although this represents an advance, it is obvious to the NAP that this vision is not sufficient and that it is somehow naive. We say this because it is illusory to think that, from day to night, shareholders will no longer look at their actions as assets which they want to make profitable in the short term, becoming the guarantors of the sustainability of the company, so the choice of the European legislator should have gone to ensure greater involvement of creditors and workers. However, it is important to leave two notes here. On the one hand, we must point out that in this bill, some progress has been made on the deepening of the transparency obligations of listed companies and, in particular, on the introduction of transparency rules for institutional investors, asset managers and voting consultants. in this regard, we highlight in particular the advances that are made to consultants, the so-called « proxy advisors », who, with the proposal of the Government, are subject to the supervision of the CMM (Commission on the Securities Market) and the duty to prepare and disseminate publicly the codes of conduct adopted by them, reports on their implementation and annual reports on the procedures and methods adopted in their activities. Why is this important? Because it meets risks associated with these consultants and identified by scholars for years, such as the excess of discretion they have, the susceptibility of conflicts of interest and the opacity of their procedures and methods, which ultimately can lead to competitive distortions and lack of quality of consulting. Therefore, since the Government implements the directive well in these areas and adopts a perspective for deepening transparency, it can, in this and in other areas where it adopts this perspective, rely on the NAP. On the other hand, this bill also introduces amendments to the shareholder control over the remuneration policies of the directors of the listed companies, which is of course positive. However, the Government could have been more ambitious and sought to open the discussion on how to implement mechanisms to combat wage imbalances between workers and managers of listed societies, a debate that is already taking place in other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u121	I conclude now, Madam President. In 2018, the CEOs of listed societies won 52 times more than their employees, which represents a perversion that has to be fought and the government could have taken advantage of it to fight this bill. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u122	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the debate, I think it would be legitimate to draw the impression that there is at least agreement around the principle, without prejudice to the fact that some of us may have differences from the point of view of the conceptual approach to the matter in particular. From the perspective of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the legislative initiative in question is an important step towards considering what is intended, which is greater transparency in societies. As I said, this bill has a very special focus on transparency and aims, inter alia: to facilitate the identification of shareholders of listed companies, with an inherent interest in simplifying the exercise of shareholders' rights and in the necessary transmission of information; to increase transparency rules for institutional investors, asset managers and voting consultants; to strengthen shareholder control over remuneration policy, which, as has already been mentioned and evidenced, is an important point; and to introduce an shareholder control regime on relevant transactions with related parties. With this transposition it is therefore intended to overcome inadequacies in the government of the listed societies in the European Union, strengthening the rights of shareholders and seeking to encourage their involvement in the management of societies with a focus other than that of the short-term, i.e. promoting that they have a sustainability perspective and thus seeking to resolve some of the issues that have emerged with the recent financial crisis. The proposal has an impact on the Securities Code, as well as on the General Scheme of Collective Investment Agencies and the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, with some objectives which I would like to highlight very briefly. The first is to create mechanisms to enable listed companies to know who their shareholders are, in particular information on their identity, the number of actions they have since held, and to require financial intermediaries to provide this information registration service and to transmit to different shareholders the relevant information. Another objective is to address inadequacies in the government of these societies, strengthening the rights of shareholders and seeking their involvement in a sustainable and long-term perspective. The approach to the theme of the remuneration of administrators is followed, which will be extremely important. It is important to keep in mind that these matters can and should be dealt with in the general assemblies of societies. One last aspect, bearing in mind that transactions with related parties may harm societies themselves, is the need to create safeguard mechanisms that protect the interests of shareholders and companies. I conclude with the following very particular reference: I am aware that this initiative has already received opinions from a number of entities and therefore the expectation of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is that, in the specialty, we can improve this regime, if necessary, and thus provide our legal framework with more effective and transparent regulations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u124	To close this debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, who has 2 minutes. Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance — Madam President, Members: From now on, it seems to me that there is a common understanding of what we bring, i.e., we improve the role of shareholders in the direction and governance of companies, in greater transparency, in the definition of the remuneration of managers. That's something we share. Then, obviously, we have differences of perspective. Many of the ladies. Members believe that they have stayed behind, that they should be more intrusive and have more information, but others have referred to the costs of reporting and even a certain voyeurism on remuneration. I believe that the proposal we bring is balanced, in the sense that it increases information without exposing the life of societies and the trade secret, which is essential to preserve, and on this basis societies are developing at the level of investment. This is a proposal that promotes investment, surely. They will say: « it is not a revolution». However, there are no revolutions by law, there are reforms. And yes, over the past few years we have discussed many directives and transpositions of them, but it is precisely this body of bills that involves the functioning of markets in the financial system, at the level of insurance, at the level of banks, at the level of the capital market. It is from the interaction of this regulatory framework that we induce incentives for companies to have an increasingly long-term perspective, but it is not decided that companies have long-term perspectives. This results from encouragement and from looking at what went wrong, yes, so that in the future the same kind of problems will not happen again. What we present is a frame that aims to give correct regulation and incentives. What has to do with crime prevention and fraud prevention is given a response through a set of projects that we have also presented with regard to money laundering and combating the financing of terrorism. With regard to the long-term orientation of the government — yes, the government has a long-term orientation! — the measures we have taken to stabilize the financial system and to consolidate the public accounts are a medium and long-term perspective. That is an orientation that this government has and will prevail. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u125	We therefore conclude the second item on the agenda on the discussion of the Bill No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). We moved on to the third point, with the appreciation of Petition No 616 / XIII / 4. a (FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — They request the creation of an early intervention recruitment group, together with Resolution Projects Nos 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By setting up an early intervention recruitment group, 173 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the area of early intervention and 207 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of an early intervention recruitment group. To present draft resolution Nos 105 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) has the floor to Mrs Alexandra Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u126	Madam President, I greet FenPROF and the 4000 petitioners, in particular parents and mothers, for bringing to this plenary a forgotten and neglected topic, that of early intervention, through this petition that aims to create a self-recruitment group for teachers and educators working in this area. The great merit of the petition — quite rightly, in our view — is to demonstrate the need to view early intervention as essential within the educational system, not only for the support that teachers and educators provide to kindergartens and kindergartens but also for the support and work they can develop with families. It is known, and neuroscience demonstrates this, that it is at this age that more intensively occurs the physical and intellectual development of the person. in this sense, early intervention is essential for the case of children who reveal developmental difficulties that will be hampered in their school course and their autonomous life. Early intervention in children occurs until they enter the first cycle of basic education. Neuroscience has also been demonstrating that the earlier intervention with children and families can be minimized and worked many of the problems with positive reflection in the rest of the person's life, particularly in the school course. Early intervention results from the linkage between three Ministries - Social Security, Health and Education - which form part of a National Commission and various Regional Subcommissions. The National Commission provides for a set of integrated support measures focusing on the child and the family, of a preventive and rehabilitation nature, in the case of children up to 6 years of age who have a limited picture in the functions and structures of the body, at risk of delaying their integral development. There have long been no guidance from the national body. However, this essential service has worked beyond needs, whether material or human resources. Once again, a public service is supported by the generosity that those in it work long beyond their hours of service and even maintaining contact after the end of the day. We disagreed with what the PS said last week about the creation of a group for the teaching of theatre teachers, claiming that doing so would be spraying the teaching career. We consider even a rather surprising argument, because, at all times, there is this need and it is normal for this to happen, as happened with artistic education, for example, and even taking into account the autonomy and curriculum flexibility. Currently, the Recruitment Group 900, of Special Education, integrates 910, the support group for children in the cognitive and motor domain, personality and multideficiency disorders; 920, the support group for children with hearing problems; and group 930, the support group for children with vision problems. However, teachers and early intervention educators must be placed in group 910, which is inadequate because early intervention is very comprehensive and requires specific training, which already exists. In addition, it is often found that it is any teacher, from any other area, who is available to integrate the early intervention team and often this even occurs at the invitation of the multidisciplinary team.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u128	I'm done now, Madam President. According to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, education is a public service that must be provided to all citizens and to all citizens. It is not understood how the Portuguese State continues, firstly, not to confer this right on children under 6 years of age.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u129	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u130	I'm done now, Madam President. And secondly, as this right continues to be tightened, by not creating the conditions so that, as soon as possible, these problems can be worked in the sense of an autonomous life and for a successful school course. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u131	For a presentation of the draft resolution No 173 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u132	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP welcomes the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), the APEI (Association of Professionals of Child Education ), the APD ( Portuguese Disability Association ), the CNOD (National Confederation of Disabled Agencies) and the CGTP-IN (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion) for the dynamization of the petition that demands the creation of a recruitment group for early intervention, as well as the more than 4000 people who have subscribed to it, enabling their discussion today, in plenary. It is necessary to point out why early intervention is so important and effectively justifies the creation of a recruitment group. This is because we speak of a preventive and rehabilitation action that combines education, health, social action. Early intervention is aimed at supporting children from 0 to 6 years old, but also their families, often even in their own homes, out of hours, this is a matter that needs to be pointed out and which is very important. It is a very specific work, very intense because of the nature of the tasks they have to develop, so it has to have teachers and educators who have specialized training in this area. If this seems obvious and obvious, the truth is that today many of the teachers who work in early intervention do not have any appropriate specialization or training precisely because, there is, there is no recruitment group, the situation that the Socialist Party's Government is late — and much — to resolve. In addition, it is recalled that in the hearing of petitioners in the Commission, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group argued that there was no evaluation of what is happening on the ground in order not to assume the effective need for the creation of the recruitment group. But, ladies and gentlemen. So, ladies and gentlemen, has the government not had time to find out what's going on in the field? You're not picking up on this for the first time now! The question we are asking is whether you do not know yet or, then, whether you already know and are in a position to take your position here today entirely. And we have to ask more: why? Why? Why has the creation of this recruitment group always been rejected by the Ministry of Education? Even because this is a measure that does not imply any increase in expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u133	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u134	Why are you making this resistance to your creation? What happens in this field, where organizations that have stimulated this petition, as well as others, are daily, is that teachers and educators continue to be invited without specialized training for the activity or, then, to the lack of an alternative, the allocation of early intervention is made to any teacher of the Recruitment Group 910, of special education, although their specialization is not in this field. But how much longer will this happen? Oh, my God! The CFP today brings to the discussion a project so that, once and for all, this situation will be resolved, with the creation of the early intervention recruitment group, improving the public response in this area and guaranteeing the rights not only of those who work but also of those who are currently in the educational system and needs this fundamental support. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u135	You have the floor to present the initiative of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, first of all, that we welcome FenPROF and the other entities that have stimulated this petition, as well as the more than 4000 petitioners who have given it body. We welcome and bring here a draft resolution in this regard, because early intervention is a type of specialized intervention that requires all our attention, aiming to support children up to 6 years of age who are at risk of development or who manifest some specific need. Everyone here knows that early detection of changes in the development of children — in language, in learning, motors, among others — is, in fact, essential for us to be able to intervene, as is essential the planning and programming of appropriate interventions for each child, for each family, ensuring that the best responses are given to stimulation, learning, rehabilitation, minimizing the effects and difficulties that exist throughout the developmental process of these children. For that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the educational policies for inclusion should, in fact, provide for interventions that may take place as soon as possible, be specialized, ensuring that these children are able to make clear attempts to correct the functional limitations that may exist and the clear attempt to intervene towards the autonomous participation of these children in social life. The relevance, specificity and complexity of these interventions require, in fact, the expertise and expertise of professionals integrated in multidisciplinary teams. But the scenario we currently have, Mr. and Mr. Members, it shows that they can be integrated teachers without any training or specialization in this area of early intervention, and the integration of teachers at the level of early intervention can be done through the recruitment group of special education, the Recruitment Group 910, or then through an invitation made to a particular teacher. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current scenario does not respond to what we have previously listed and, therefore, we bring here a proposal for a recommendation to the Government that seeks, in essence, a clear recognition of the importance of early intervention and ensures that it intervenes with professionals with expertise, with appropriate technical competence in the area of child development and changes in the development of children, aiming at specific support techniques for children and their families. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u137	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the more than 4000 petitioners of this petition. As has already been said, early intervention supports children between 0 and 6 years of age and, very important, supports their families, often in situations of great vulnerability, because they are greatly lost about what they should do about the news they receive and the children they have at home. Early intervention is organized in three areas of multidisciplinary support, health, education and social security, and is structured in the National Service of Early Intervention in Children, the so-called SNIPI, whose legislative framework is found in Decree-Law No 281/2009. Early intervention teams develop a fundamental work with these children, with their families and, as has been said, often even at home. For work to be profitable and for potential development gains in the lives of these children, there is, in fact, a window of opportunity that needs to be used with specialized techniques and therefore also with specialized human resources. In the previous legislation, the working group on special educational needs—which reminds me, there is still Mrs Joana Mortágua and Mrs Diana Ferreira, in addition to me— made several visits to the field and, in these visits, it became very clear that there was, on the one hand, a comprehensive lack of professionals in these teams and, on the other hand, a specific problem in the area of education, which in fact had to deal with the type of teachers placed on these teams, often children's educators, as a very linear association in relation to the age group, and special education teachers of Group 910, who has some training to work this area but not the specific training that this window of opportunity that he had recently spoken requires. Therefore, the special education at this time, from the point of view of recruitment and placement of teachers, has three domains: the 910, which has to do with the cognitive and motor area; the 920, which has to do with deafness and communication disturbances; the 930, which has to do with low vision and blindness. But, in fact, early intervention in childhood, because of its specificity and the concrete requirements that children have, does not fit and cannot be diluted in any of these areas. Therefore, it deserves to have a self-recruitment group, something the CDS also defends. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u139	You have the floor for the Greens, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr. President, Mr. and Mr. Members: The Greens greet all the petitioners who bring us, once again, the injustices we can find in hiring teachers and educators. The National System of Early Childhood Intervention consists of a set organized by institutional entities and is of a family nature, aiming, above all, to ensure conditions of development for children with functions or structures of the body that limit personal, social growth and their participation in activities proper for the age, as well as for children at serious risk of developmental delay. Its coordination is for the Ministries of Labour and Social Solidarity, Health and Education, taking into account the involvement of families and the community. This intervention applies to children between 0 and 6 years of age, increasing their relevance. The professionals involved, teachers and educators of childhood, are either invited or placed by the Ministry of Education, depending on schools. When placed through the recruitment contest, it is through the Recruitment Group 910, for special education, which is intended to support children and young people with serious cognitive problems, with serious motor problems, with serious personality or conduct disorders, with multideficiency and also for early intervention support in childhood. Whenever a teacher competes in this teaching group, he does not know whether he will work in early intervention or in support of other children, according to the scope of the recruitment group itself. When placed by invitation, any teacher may make himself available to work in early childhood intervention, even if his or her skills are not adequate to work in this area. We all understand that the children that need it cannot continue to remain at the mercy of these mechanisms and that professionals deserve to be placed in accordance with their ability, since there is specific training in this area, so there is no justification for these teachers to continue to be integrated into such a comprehensive recruitment group. And is it acceptable for children in need of early intervention to be subject to the support of teachers without training in the area? The Greens advocate the urgent establishment of a recruitment group for these teachers, duly qualified with specialized training, and the corresponding competitive position. We therefore follow the projects that recommend that the Government initiate a negotiation process with a view to establishing a recruitment group in the area of early intervention. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u141	Mr Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the signatories and promoters of this petition, which aims to establish the early intervention recruitment group. We also leave here a special compliment to all those who work in early intervention and who give such important support to children and their families. Early intervention plays a key role in the development of children up to 6 years of age, with changes or at risk of changes in the structures or functions of the body. This intervention should be provided as early as possible and should create conditions conducive to the good development of the child with a family-centred approach, maximizing the learning opportunities of the child, supporting the parents and ensuring that they have the resources they need to care for the child. Early intervention, assuming this important role in the development of the child, and taking into account its specificity, should be ensured, preferably, by a set of professionals duly specialized. Although there is a range of teachers with specialization in the area of early intervention, it is usually the teachers of Group 910, the special education group, cognitive domain and motor, working with these children. But early intervention in childhood is not limited to this domain. Special education also includes the domain of deafness and communication and low vision and blindness. We therefore understand that early intervention in childhood should consider the specific training of the teacher. And we know that the Socialist Party agrees with us and so does it. Now, let's see: the Government's own programme says that 'Teaching is one of the sectors in which professional specialization and training are critical to the results achieved'. We therefore believe that it is the government, through the Ministry of Education, that it is responsible for organising teacher competitions and defining groups and forms of recruitment, until this measure in particular will have no significant impact on the State budget. Not doing so now, we believe that the Socialist Party should do so within the framework of its commitment to draw up a diagnosis of the recruitment model and the placement of teachers and a plan that takes account of the various changes in Portuguese society. The Social Democratic Party will pay attention to the work of the Government and the Minister of Education, hoping that they will fulfill their promises and not fail again with their commitments, as has already happened in the past. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u143	Mr Lúcia Araújo, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners. The petition and draft resolutions under consideration, in the area of early intervention, which covers children from 0 to 6 years of age, remind me that teachers placed in early intervention, regardless of the level of teaching of their origin, are teachers with specialized training in special education. The intervention that is required for teachers working with early intervention in childhood is inserted in the set of specific training skills, restricted to the Special Education Recruitment Group 910, in accordance with the existing law decree defining the recruitment groups. I also recall that Decree-Law No. 281 / 2009, currently in force, ensures the response to the identified needs, creating the national system of early intervention in childhood, with a set of integrated support measures, focused on children and the family, including actions of a preventive and rehabilitation nature, in the context of education, health and social action, with the coordination of the areas of government of work, solidarity and social security, health and education. The government area of education is to organize a network of groups of schools of reference for early intervention in childhood that integrates teachers of this area belonging to the frameworks, which may request statutory mobility, considering the specificities of teaching in the area of early intervention, or contracted by schools, which have as their specific criterion specialized training in special education. With regard to the establishment of a recruitment group for the area under discussion, the Government is sensitive to the creation of new recruitment groups. I recall, for example, the Portuguese Gestual Language Recruitment Group, created by the XXI Constitutional Government ( Decree-Law No. 16 / 2018 ), after a laborious study process previously developed. With regard to the creation of the group concerned, this subject always involves a rigorous prior analysis, involving a deep study of the structure of teaching, with assessments in both curricular areas, and within the necessary human and material resources, and cannot be concluded by the creation of a recruitment group. I also stress the particular attention that the Government has given to the issue of inclusive education, with its legal approval in Decree-Law No 54/2018 and the increase in human, material, technical and pedagogical resources, with a view to responding to the needs arising from the implementation of the new regime, in which they stand out: more than 6000 special education teachers in the three respective recruitment groups, resulting in an increase of more than 1000 teachers; the strengthening of an operational assistant per group in the kindergartens of the public network; and the strengthening of more than 200 operational assistants to relieve added difficulties of children who have great dependence on adults. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u145	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u146	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have once again had an example of the Socialist Party at its best: sensitive to the problem, to consider that we have a sufficient legal framework, to welcome the petitioners, but to understand that the government will not do anything about this because we already have laws that arrive, what is important is to evaluate the media on the ground and see how it works. Mrs Araújo, I am risking to say that, in terms of early intervention, Portugal has the worst data in the European Union, and at least this should make us think about what we are not doing well. When confronted with the recruitment group for early intervention, the Socialist Party replied: «Not yet, we are assessing the conditions on the ground ». In June 2018, a study was requested to the National Council for Education. Where are the results of this, my God? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS MP Lucia Araújo Silva.]] How long do we need? Two years, three years, twenty years to reach conclusions on early intervention? Oh, my God! It is truly incredible that, in a matter that is consensual, in a matter that affects the most basic difficulties of families and children, we cannot reach a consensus and the Socialist Party's answers are: « we are analyzing, we are seeing, one day we will see how it works». The truth is this: this measure would have no impact or would have a very small impact, I repeat, very small, from a budgetary point of view. There is no reason but some ideological-pragmatic blindness for the Socialist Party to stop it. So, yes, the measure is needed, it is fundamental and it costs a lot that that that party, when opposed, spoke of the importance of early intervention, spoke of the importance of special educational needs, now simply say, "Let's see, let's analyze, thank you for coming, until next."
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-11.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will be on the agenda for the Government's Question No 2 / XIV / 1. the, requested by BE, on the crisis in postal service and the recovery of public control of TTCs. Thank you very much, until tomorrow and good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 12 minutes.]]
