ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 9 hours and 37 minutes.]] Today's agenda has as its only point the debate on the state of the nation. For the opening intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to start by thanking you for having agreed to my request to postpone this debate on the state of the nation for 48 hours. We are today a nation in mourning, but mobilized for the struggle. We live a unique moment, of mixed feelings: shock from the loss of human lives; distress from the state of health of those who are sick; uncertainty about the future of businesses, jobs and incomes; admiration from all those who are on the front line of prevention and treatment of COVID-19 or who ensure the continuity of essential services; collective self-esteem by the civic exemplaryness and democratic maturity with which we have been able to respond to this unique challenge; determination to stop a fierce fight against the pandemic and the economic and social crisis that has triggered; confidence in the Portuguese's ability to overcome at all moments of exception, like the one we live. My first words are, of course, of dismay to all those who are grieving, of solidarity to those who are sick, infected, or in prophylactic isolation, and of gratitude to all the professionals, who have always been at the service, for the benefit of all, with natural emphasis, of course, for the health professionals. It is in the memory of those we have lost, but also in the resilience of those who suffer, in the courage and dedication of all those who face the risk that nothing is lacking that we all must inspire to continue with renewed energy the struggle that we must wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yeah, we're in a fight. In the fight against the virus, to protect the health and life of our fellow citizens, especially those of the most elderly or vulnerable, on behalf of whom we cannot lower the guard or facilitate in compliance with safety rules and measures. In the struggle for the maintenance of jobs and for the preservation of businesses and businesses, which so affected were the confinement and withdrawal of demand. In the fight against poverty and material deprivation to alleviate the inequalities that the pandemic has exposed, certain that we cannot leave anyone behind. The destruction of employment is also a destructive virus, which has to be stopped, and poverty is our red line. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the struggle for the economic and social recovery of the country, which cannot be limited to responding to a brutal conjuncural shock, but must anchor itself in an ambition of structural transformation that accelerates climate action and digital transition, which strengthens our autonomy, repositioning us in global value chains, responding to demographic dynamics and reducing inequalities. at this time, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country faces a double challenge: on the one hand, we must continue our unceasing effort to control the pandemic and prepare ourselves to face the risk of a new wave, especially during the fall and winter periods; on the other hand, we must continue to implement the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, as we prepare the start of the economic recovery programme. In the intervention that will take during the debate, the Minister of Health will develop what will be done to recover the care activity, develop the actions to prevent contamination, strengthen the testing capacity and prepare the National Health Service ( SNS) to respond to a period of probable coincidence of the traditional influenza outbreak with a possible new wave of the CVID-19. But there are at least four other critical areas in which we must give evidence of resilience and try to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. The closure of schools, on 12 March, was essential to flatten the epidemic curve, but despite the extraordinary effort of adapting teachers, students and families and the television complement of distance education, it was very evident the high social cost this measure had in the learning processes, in the exposure of inequalities and in the conditioning of parents' lives. The conclusion is simple and clear: nothing replaces present education and nothing replaces public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] From September onwards, the school will return to everyone on a present-day basis, but necessarily with due caution and safety rules, having to be prepared to evolve into a mixed or non-presentative regime, depending on health circumstances. Responding to an already identified need, but that the pandemic has highlighted, the Stabilisation Programme includes an amount of EUR 400 million for the digitisation of schools. In addition, the next academic year will have an increase of EUR 125 million for the hiring of more teachers, more non-teaching staff and specialized technicians such as social assistants, psychologists or mediators. It will thus be possible to carry out a set of learning recovery and consolidation activities, especially by supporting students with greater difficulties, through support classes, tutoring and other forms of follow-up. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is essential to strengthen cooperation agreements with the social sector, in particular in support of the elderly and people with disabilities. This year we have already strengthened the transfers to the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), Mutualities, Mercy and Cooperatives, but we will soon make an additional reinforcement of more than 12 million euros, specifically aimed at four fundamental social responses: homes of the elderly, residential homes, autonomous homes and home support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Through the Adapt Social + program, we will also help these institutions to acquire protective and hygiene equipment. We will also launch PARES 3.0 ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) to finance the retraining and construction of new social equipment to support children, the elderly and people with disabilities, in a total investment of EUR 110 million. in another field, the pandemic has become even more evident the social unsustainability of housing deficiencies and the degree of precariousness and informality of many labour relations, whether in the context of culture, where, once and for all, we have to approve an intermittent status that guarantees fair stability and protection, whether within the so-called 'collaborative platforms', in which, under the cover of an independent activity or individual entrepreneurship, there are situations of great dependence and fragility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Combating this social pandemic is not only a requirement for dignity at work, but also, along with the acceleration of the new generation of housing policies, a real public health urgency. Finally, the dynamisation of economic activity and the fight against unemployment require the acceleration of public investment. On the one hand, investment in already programmed infrastructures — in key areas such as railway, meters, new hospitals or the expansion of irrigation — will increase by about 50 % in the years 2020 and 2021. On the other hand, we are immediately launching a large set of small works of proximity, disseminated by the territory, of rapid implementation and of greater impact on local economies, whether on road repair, removal of asbestos from schools, the preservation and rehabilitation of public equipment, the hydrographic network and the opening of forest steel. These are works for today and are urgent to activate the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I always said this would be a marathon, a background race. The requirement for us is not only to reverse a conjuncural fall of the Product, but to take this occasion of exception as an opportunity for structural change. In other words, the reconstruction effort must have immediate economic and social effects at the same time and must be anchored in a future ambition: to accelerate the fight against climate change; to realize the digital transition; to strengthen the strategic autonomy of our economy; to make better use of our resources; to overcome our multiple asymmetries; and to combat inequalities. There are many challenges, on several fronts, which unfold in multiple instruments of various horizons: annual, such as the State Budgets ; in the short term, such as the Recovery and Resilience Programme ; in the medium term, such as Portugal 2030. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore essential that there is a guide wire, a common hat, which ensures continuity and consistency in these various instruments, which must pursue a uniform strategic vision. That is why I invited Prof.António Costa Silva to develop a Strategic Vision for the Economic Recovery Plan, a document that was publicly presented this week and is now in public discussion. It is an informed document, which provides us with a framework for the national economy's recovery efforts, clearly identifying which strategic bets we should pursue over the next decade. From the imperative of reindustrialization and industrial conversion, we should not be dependent on logistics chains and supply chains that, in this pandemic, have shown their vulnerability well to the need for investment in physical and digital infrastructures, which capitalize on our position in the world and project us for the future; from the use of our marine resources to the enhancement of the Iberian hinterland; from the increase of the qualifications of Portuguese and the renewed commitment to science and innovation to the decarbonization and circularity of our economy. These are essential bets to revive growth, to become more competitive and, from this pandemic crisis, to make weak forces, correcting some of our vulnerabilities and preparing ourselves better for the economy and society of the future. A defined strategy, anchored in a clear vision of the future, which allows us to know what we want, what goals to achieve and how to get there. Turning this vision into action is the mission in which the government will focus over the coming months. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unlike other times in the past, we now have unique conditions that enable us to be confident and believe that it is possible to overcome this new crisis. First, we have sound public accounts. When the virus hit us, we had reached for the first time a budget surplus and we had come in a path of sustained reduction of public debt, which allowed us to regain credibility with investors and savers, national and foreign, and to free up essential resources to strengthen public services and the social state. Thanks to the intervention of the European Central Bank and the recovered international credibility of the Portuguese State, our level of public debt interest is already at the same pre-COVID level. Secondly, we have a more robust and sustainable social security system. We had been able to strengthen the sustainability of our pension system in more than 29 years, compared to the one designed in 2015, thus enabling the Social Security Finance Stabilisation Fund to be provided with a value of more than EUR 20 billion for the first time in its history. This is a path we do not want to abandon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why the effort that social security is making at the moment will be offset by money from the State budget, because we do not abdicate, even at a time of crisis, that we have strong social security and are able to guarantee the future of the next generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, we have a more solid economy, more open to the outside, more competitive and with increasingly skilled workers. We have resumed our convergence course with the European Union because we have put ourselves in science and innovation as drivers of sustained growth, a fact recognized, very recently, in another edition of the European Innovation Scoreboard, which has elevated our classification, placing us, for the first time, on the first league of innovation, classifying us as a "strongly innovative" country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, Portugal has already approved and operational a wide range of planning instruments and implementation strategies that provide the necessary framework for the programming phase that we will develop in the coming months. This is how the National Plan for Reforms to the Technology and Entrepreneurship Innovation Strategy, the National Program for Territorial Planning Policy to the National Investment Programme, from the Roadmap for Carbon Neutrality to the National Energy and Climate Plan, from INCODe.2030 to Digital Portugal, from the National Plan for Integrated Management of Rural Fires to the National Regadios Programme, among others. Finally, the agreement reached this week at the European Council guarantees us an unprecedented financial envelope. Without having any credit lines or access to the management programmes centralised by the European Commission, such as in the fields of science or international corridors, it should be noted that, between the completion of the implementation of Portugal 2020, the Recovery and Resilience Programme and the Portugal 2030 Programme, Portugal will have in its exclusive national envelope a total amount of 57, 9 billion euros to be implemented in various periods and by the end of 2029. The answer now reached confirms the correctness of our strategy and both those who said that Europe would never have an adequate response to the crisis, as those who said that belonging to Europe was to accept the austerity solutions acritically. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The conquest of this envelope, without precedent, is a huge responsibility for public administrations, economic agents, and society as a whole. A huge responsibility to plan well, to plan well, to plan well, to implement well and to monitor well in order to ensure the proper use of European resources. A huge responsibility, indeed, for our European partners, is a huge responsibility, in particular for the Portuguese and above all a huge responsibility for the new generations to whom we have a duty to restore confidence in the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These are five preconditions essential to the success of the reconstruction challenge and which are assured. But it is also important to ensure the necessary political conditions. In order for the country to feel this effort as a collective, we propose that it be framed by a broad-based strategic vision, the result of the ongoing public debate in which I hope everyone will participate until the end of August. Because we know that large infrastructure investments require a stable commitment for several legislatures, we raised the question that the National Investment Programme should be approved in this House by a large majority of three-quarters. Because we do not want the monopoly of implementation, we promote the democratization of the coordination and regional development committees so that their leaders become majority elected by the region and not appointed by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I had the opportunity to reaffirm, even recently in the debate on the Supplementary Budget, no one expects from this Government any contribution to a political crisis which undermines the stability of this legislature. On the contrary, more than availability, we have a political will to strengthen with the healthy predictability, coherence and continuity of policies that respond not only to the immediate needs of Portuguese but also to the imperative of the country's structural transformation. The Government's position in this regard has always been clear: the response to this crisis does not go through austerity or any backwardness in the progress achieved over the past five years. So it is with the parties who have turned with us the page of austerity that we want to continue the path started in 2015. And to that end, we need a framework of stability on the horizon of the legislature. If it was already so, then for most reasons it will be when we need to recover the country from an unprecedented pandemic crisis. The magnitude of the task we have in hand does not sympathize with short-term agreements, nor with short-sighted tactics, based on despices of popularity, take-off competitions or electoral calculus exercises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We need a solid and lasting understanding. If it has been possible before, it must certainly be possible now. If it has been useful before, it is essential now, in the face of the challenge of overcoming a pandemic crisis like the one that afflicts us. And, in good rigour, there are several 'joint positions' that approach us: the aim of strengthening the productive capacity and the value of our resources; the priority to strengthening public services and strengthening public investment; the fight against precarious housing and work; the fight against inequalities. These are objectives that we share and around which it is possible to structure a medium- and long-term action roadmap, without prejudice, as always, to the known differences that define the identity of each or distinct views on Europe and the importance of the stability of the macroeconomic framework, with which we have always been able to live. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: How inevitably happens in times of greatest difficulty, there are always those who ask themselves: but will it be possible to overcome this crisis? How are you gonna get it? To be honest, I've heard this in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Well, I know it seems that February was an eternity and that the world has been radically transformed ever since. But if we make an effort of memory and remember the situation in which we were then, we can confirm that the change we proposed — and in which many did not believe — was indeed possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We had reached the first budgetary surplus of democracy; since 2017 we had again converged with the European Union ; we had reduced the unemployment rate from 12, 2 % to 6, 1 % and, during this period, 550 000 people had freed themselves from the situation of poverty and social exclusion. Yes, it was possible to overcome the previous crisis. Many doubted, but with the right policies and the commitment of all Portuguese people, we succeeded. And we will be able to overcome this crisis again. The efforts of recent years allow us to face this new challenge with the confidence of those who know how to turn the adversity and the unique resources that we now have will allow us not only to be more resilient, but also to be more innovative, more sustainable, more prosperous and fairer. So, with determination and confidence, we will overcome this crisis. Let's fight the virus. We're going to protect the most vulnerable. Let's get the economy back. Let's prepare the future. Let us together build a better Portugal! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u3	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the stage of the debate itself. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u4	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, although I would hardly resist commenting on something I have seen in public, which is a request for marriage, signed paper, with the Communist Party and with the Left Block, I will ask you a question of capital importance and hold to what is my idea about a project that the Government has announced and which I consider extremely dangerous. The government announced the National Strategy for Hydrogen. Hydrogen is a source of energy for the future, but technologically still too late. The costs of hydrogen energy production will be reduced by 60% over the next 10 years, and over the next 10 years, the government announces that it wants investments of EUR 7 billion. They compare the EUR 7 billion that the Government wants with the EUR 9 billion that the Federal Republic of Germany expects. In other words, Germany, which has a GDP (gross domestic product ) 16 times higher than Portugal, is 9 billion, and the Portuguese Government is 7 billion. We, to have private investment, only with investment allowance, production allowance or subsidies for both things. So I'm afraid we're going to have an episode of guaranteed income in front of us, now for hydrogen. It also happens that in these EUR 7 billion, the government wants to concentrate the « legion slice » in Sines. Question : Why do you want to concentrate when the costs of transporting hydrogen are gross? Why, in Sines? Is it in Sines because this business is more interested in EDP (Energy of Portugal) than in Portuguese, like the overincome business, that now the Public Ministry is investigating, and very well?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u6	Mr Prime Minister, the Government envisages a drop in the Product of 6, 9 %. We all realize that the Product will fall by more than 10 %, that our public debt will largely pass by 130 %, that the country's unemployment rate is unknown, because we do not know how many workers in Layoff will return to the labour market and how many will go directly to unemployment. We have no conditions for adventures, nor for megalomanian ideas! And the thing can be even worse if the government comes to do what I suspect, which is new auctions for guaranteed incomes, again, for renewable energy, now with the excuse that it is to produce hydrogen. I would say-CL to you like this: more windy, yes! More solar, yes! Hydrogen, yes, but with the market running and not with the taxpayer paying. In energy policy, what should be our priority was the opening of the Iberian Market to the rest of Europe, through the Pyrenees. Why? Because at the moment, the energy that is produced and is wasted is paid the weight of gold by the Portuguese taxpayer to EDP and other companies, and that is exactly what the Public Prosecutor is investigating. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we have the TAP (Portuguese Air Transport), we have the accumulated invoice of bank failures, we have disastrous PPPs (public-private partners ), we have destroyed large companies, that sometimes we even forget, for example, PT ( Portugal Telecom ) — Portugal destroyed PT! -, we have the New Bank... We have done too much bullshit! Portugal made more bullshit! [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] So this time, we cannot fail. I ask you two concrete questions about this project. Point 1, can you ensure here, in the Assembly of the Republic, that for the production of hydrogen we are not going to watch guaranteed incomes, read too much, what happened in the time of the Government of the Eng Socrates? Aren't you going to repeat the mistakes that Portugal made at that time? Point 2, concerning other renewable energies, can you also guarantee that there will be no new auctions for guaranteed income? Or, in the context of what this business really is, is it justified to even ask you the following: can you assure us that there will be no more business in China? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u7	That's where China's business is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u8	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u9	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I will go to the heart of your question and then to the derivations. Of course, we are living a moment of great economic uncertainty, but, in view of this moment of great uncertainty, we must respond to the challenges of the immediate but with a strategic vision. Furthermore, it is a condition of access to the European Union recovery programme which it attaches to the common strategic vision: strengthening the strategic autonomy of our participation in value chains, accelerating digital transition and accelerating the climate transition. of all funds, 30 % will have to be associated with investment in climate change. That is why the role of the sea is fundamental, as a great regulator of the environment, that is why the role of the forest is fundamental, as a great sink of CO2, that is why investment in urban and suburban public transport is absolutely central, but the issue of energy is inescapable. What Portugal compares best in international terms is even in the field of energy, because in its own time there was the ability to have the strategic vision of investing in renewable energies — in hydraulics, in the wind and in the sun — and therefore 54 % of the electricity we consume today is already guaranteed by renewable sources. This is not happening in any other European country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, even last year, we made a historic global auction for the production of solar energy, where we managed to obtain the lowest cost worldwide. Now it is very clear that, in this process of decarbonisation, it will be vital for sectors such as industry or heavy transport to use hydrogen and that green hydrogen is a further value within the framework of hydrogen. Portugal has unique conditions to be the great producer of green hydrogen in Europe. Why? Because it has two basic resources for hydrolysis of green hydrogen: abundant water in the sea and particularly cheap solar energy. It is not by chance that we are at the heart of the European strategy for green energy and green hydrogen. It's not a strange idea of the Portuguese government. Europe has adopted a European strategy for green hydrogen and honours - we are very much in partnership with the Netherlands and Germany on the EU's Green Hydrogen Board of Directors in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u11	We want and we will have a leading position, because we have natural conditions to do so, because it is an important factor in mobilizing the national industry and because it is an important factor for our geostrategic appreciation. As you know, we have a great difficulty in interconnecting our energy with Europe and green hydrogen is an additional argument. Ask me, but is it a technology that motivates interest? Well, the auction we opened now generates private investment intentions of EUR 16 billion — EUR 16 billion of private investment! The public investment contribution is EUR 400 million over 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u12	We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u13	Mr. Deputies, the account is very simple to make. This is a public aid which is a minimum part of the support we have to give to investment and is, above all, a minimum part of the investment that we leverage and that privates are available to do, because they believe in this technology of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u14	You have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Prime Minister, I would first of all like to greet Mr Prime Minister for the words of confidence, for the words of hope and for the words of realism before the pandemic we are living and for the struggle that we will still continue to halt, which is in fact contrasting with Dr Rui Rio's speech as if nothing had happened in this Legislative Session... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and as if these past few months had not been tragic to all of us, tragic to the world, tragic to Portugal, tragic to the Portuguese. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that, at the end of this Legislative Session on the balance sheet of the State of the Nation, we cannot ignore where we left and how we were able to respond to this pandemic. We left a resilient economy, whose debt was falling, with a low and historical deficit, with a historical budget surplus, which allowed public services to respond, in particular, to the National Health Service which, by its robustness, was able to respond, without stopping, to all those who needed it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] unlike many, in Portugal and outside, we didn't let ourselves lose sight of fear and act in time. In time to strengthen the social state and public investment, in time to respond to families, workers, businesses, in time to actually look at people and give them answers. However, it is undeniable that there is a point in this Legislative Session: a strong social state is a State capable of responding to all the needs of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we protect workers, that's why we protect those who resort to health and that's why we could find new social protection measures in order to strengthen social protection. I would like to congratulate you, Prime Minister, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, on the measures announced here to turn to the older, to the younger, to turn to everyone, because in Portugal and to the socialists the Portuguese are not against each other, we are all fighting inequalities together. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout these months, we have also been able to respect our democracy and in an emergency state not to close Parliament and, together with the government, to find all the necessary answers to people's concerns. But the current moment, if it is a balance sheet, is also a prospect of the future. What has been achieved this week in Europe cannot go blank, and it could not have passed blank by the bench of the largest opposition party in this House. It is that what has been conquered in Europe also has the Portugal brand, because Portugal has shown, over these five years, that an alternative to austerity was possible and that in crises it does not respond with cuts,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u16	... answers with protection, answers with money, answers with concrete answers for people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Prime Minister, yes, we have a Europe that has responded innovatively, quickly and effectively. That is why we cannot waste the opportunity to modernise our economy through hydrogen and also by combating climate change, we cannot waste the opportunity to improve our integration into international competitiveness, we cannot waste the opportunity to accelerate the digital transition and the fight against climate change — two objectives, namely, which are in the Government Programme and which are in the Socialist Party's Election Programme — and above all, we cannot waste the opportunity, as Mr. Prime Minister well mentioned from the rostrum, to reduce inequalities and eliminate poverty. Yeah, that's our red line! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must eliminate poverty, further strengthening the social state, re-valuing public services, recovering from the persistent shortage of qualifications, in particular from the generations of adults already on the labour market, which will require a response in the coming years. Modernizing the economy and reducing inequalities will also mean, as I said in the gallery, qualifying employment, increasing family incomes, not in temporary or voluntary forms, but as a result of structural changes that will ensure the continuity of a new path of social progress. Today we have the opportunity to face the crisis, to recover from the crisis and to prepare for a better future, because it is with optimism, with confidence, with our eyes placed on the future that we will be able to build an even better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u17	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u18	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we have good reasons for facing, with confidence and realism, the times ahead. Not by optimism, but because we are starting today from a framework where we have stronger public finances, after a budget surplus, and a government debt that has been reduced. Today, on the market, we paid for the debt we paid before the COVID crisis. We have reason to be confident, because today we have a more robust social security system, which has been able, without sacrificing future generations, to respond to the needs of the present. We have reason to be confident, because when Europe recognizes that, today, we are a highly innovative country, it is proven that innovation is really the driving force behind our growth. We have reason to be confident, because we have a set of defined, completed, approved and operational planning tools to guide the recovery of the crisis. Finally, we have reason to be confident, because in fact at the last European Council we were able to mobilise a volume of financial resources for Portugal as the country has never had. In our history, on average, we executed between 2000 and 3000 million euros a year. The average we have to run by 2029 is more than double, is 6, 7 billion euros per year. This is a huge responsibility for the country, for us, and we cannot betray the trust of future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we need to look at this recovery effort not as a helicopter that distributes money to meet today's needs, but rather with an ambitious vision of the future. That is also why the energy issue is absolutely central, such as the digital option and the reinforcement based on the innovation of our productive capacity are absolutely central. It is shocking, indeed, to verify how the PSD learned nothing from history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD became the party of atavic conservatism. It was against the renewables, it was late in history to defend the renewables and now it is against hydrogen. He's fossilized in the defense of fossil energies... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] ... and is disconnected from the most dynamic and innovative sectors of Portuguese society. So, unfortunately, we cannot count on the PSD to build a country in the future. The PSD is today the party of the « old men of the Restello », of those who do not take and do not have the courage to turn the storms into good hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what the country needs in front of the storm: face it and transform it into a good hope for the path of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u19	You now have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, I don't even know what to say, because I am almost moved by this moment of enormous opposition between the PS and the PSD, see well on what subject? About energy rents. Mr Rui Rio, cynicism must have limits. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I know that I preferred Parliament 20 or 30 years ago, when there was not yet a Left Block, nor the register of interests of Members published on the Internet, or news channels to pass on what we do here so everyone out there knows what is going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u22	But the Left Block is here, it does not give up in voting and it does not forget that we had a parliamentary commission of inquiry into energy incomes which, on the proposal of the Left Block, concluded by excessive incomes, as it does not forget that Mr Rui Rio's bank voted against the majority of these same conclusions to which the Public Prosecutor is now giving all the reason. Nor does it forget that the Socialist Party, having voted in favour, has done little or nothing to put an end to these energy revenues. [[PS Deputies Luís Moreira Testa.]] I assure you that the Left Block does not give up, not a minute, to restore justice and combat the crime that is the income of energy in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the state of the nation is marked by the pandemic crisis and, in fact, much of the serious problems of this outbreak are also a consequence of the structural weaknesses of our country. That is why the pandemic outbreaks subject workers, especially precarious, and the poor to crowded dwellings, sending them to the peripheries and forcing them to make such long and pendulum journeys every day. That's why we have outbreaks in our homes. There are 10 000 homes — one third of these illegals — in Portugal, where 100 000 dependent elderly people are institutionalized because there is no public response and whose workers, often precarious workers, have poor wages. The structural fragility of the country is seen in this crisis, in this army of workers and workers from the front line, who cannot stop one day, who are at risk for the country to continue to function, and, yes, gain wages of misery in our country. It is about this fragility that we have to debate when we debate the state of the Nation, but it is also about the force, the extraordinary strength of these people who work and who did not give up a moment to respond to the crisis, that force I want to talk about. Of course, of the workers of the National Health Service, who have been tireless and who, only in May, have made more than half a million extraordinary hours than in the previous year. They're tireless! But that's not enough! We need more people in the National Health Service. When we negotiated the State Budget, we did not yet know of the dangers of the pandemic crisis, but we already knew of the vulnerability of the SNS and the need to strengthen. That is why we negotiated a fiscal reinforcement, the National Program for Mental Health and, yes, more professionals for the National Health Service, plus 8400, in two years. That was our agreement, which was what Parliament approved here. Mr. Prime Minister, the year is already going more than half, where are these contracts? Dir-CL will me who hired more professionals for SNS to respond to COVID. Well, these are temporary contracts, four months plus four months, and that's not what we were talking about. We were talking about concrete reinforcement, with links to the SNS! Contracts of four months plus four months do not respond either to the National Health Service, nor to the workers and, surely, to the users, who need the SNS both for the COVID, as well as for everything else. When will we have the contracts that were already approved in the State Budget? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, the workers of the National Health Service are, yes, tireless, but are exhausted. Complying with what was already in the State Budget is essential for them to continue to work and for users to have the answers they need. I have a question to ask you briefly, on another topic, that of the New Bank. Mr Prime Minister assured, in one of those 15-year debates that he does not like very much, that there would be no injections into the New Bank without being known to audit the management of credits. We know it wasn't like that. I do not want to go back to the discussion of communication problems within the government, but I want to go back to the audit because it was guaranteed that it would be known in July. We are at the end of July and there is no audit news, but there is, yes, news about the New Bank. There are real estate business news, in which the bank owner sells land to himself, with enormous financial loss, to then use these inequalities as an excuse to ask for more injections to the Resolution Fund and more money to the taxpayers. It's more than dubious business. We have all doubts about them, and it is therefore urgent that we get to know the audit. Is there an audit at the end of July or not? Mr. Prime Minister, I leave only a brief word, because I heard what I said well. You know, the Left Block proposed, less than a year ago, to the Socialist Party a formal agreement for the legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u23	What about the paper?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u24	The Socialist Party rejected this agreement and preferred to negotiate Budget Budget, which, in fact, the Left Block has done, as you well know, never forgetting our mandate: left-wing policies, respond to the poorest and most vulnerable, defend public services, protect the rights of those who work and build this country. Mr. Prime Minister, our horizon has always been that of the legislature, but we never put our mandate in the drawer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u25	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u26	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, on a matter of time management and on the fact that the Minister of Health is going to speak, I will leave for her to answer the questions she has asked about health. With regard to the New Bank, the auditor who is preparing the audit requested an extension of the deadline, but it was refused by the Minister of State and Finance, who insisted that until 31 July, it should be delivered. As soon as this audit is delivered, it will also be sent to Parliament. I give you one last word, Your Honor. We will not discuss history, but indeed at the beginning of this legislature a set of preconditions was presented to discuss an agreement that we knew was not acceptable and, therefore, we agreed that there would be no agreement written on that occasion. The circumstances have changed, and I think we have a strict duty to look back at these conditions, because here is a new common agenda. This is an agenda for strengthening public services, strengthening public investment, refusing austerity, ensuring that we have no backlog in this process. But it is also a new agenda in both the new housing policies, both in the workplace and in the fight against precariousness and informality. This is a new agenda and we have a common duty to respond to the mandate we have received. Each of us, of course, interprets the mandate as he understands it, but I maintain the interpretation I did on the night of the elections. What the Portuguese said was very simple: they wanted to continue with management, now with a stronger PS. This was certainly the mandate that the PS received, but it was surely the mandate of those who made the election campaign to ask that the PS not have an absolute majority, because if it had no management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This certainly means that those who have achieved that there is no absolute majority now have the responsibility to also ensure that there is management, even if it is with a stronger PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u27	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. To request clarification, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, Portugal has problems that the epidemic and its use have become worse. Solutions are needed! The CFP values the defence, replacement and conquest of rights that resulted from the struggle of workers and the people and the action of the CFP and does not prejudge, at each step, the defense and improvement of their living conditions. But, looking at the country and its problems, the solution goes through profound changes that have to be assumed and realized. It is not possible to respond to national problems with low-wage workers — 'wages' seems to be a banned word of official speech — to pay cuts, poverty, precariousness, time deregulation, the lack of working conditions, including health protection, violation of rights, retrograde labour legislation and unemployment which wastes their ability to contribute to development, while hundreds of millions of euros of public money, through layoffs and other mechanisms, are delivered to economic and financial groups that over the years have huge profits. It is not possible to respond to the problems of the country with the public services to be called into question, as is the case with the ongoing attack on the SNS. It is not possible to respond to national problems with the destruction of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not possible to respond to national problems with the persistent devaluation of national production and the misuse of our potential. It is not possible to respond to national problems with the domain of economic and financial groups on national life, as a result of a process of privatization that has not stopped generating corruption at the business service of billions that take the country away and compromise the future. It is not possible to respond to national problems with submission to the European Union and its impositions, such as the PS and also the PSD and the CDS defend. The way is not that of insistence on the same options that marked decades of right-wing policy that aggravated national problems, imposed exploitation, injustice, impoverishment and corruption. The way to respond to national problems for a more developed and fairer country, for a future Portugal requires a left-wing policy, requires a patriotic policy. Portugal needs the general increase in wages for all workers, the enhancement of professions and careers, the increase in national minimum wage, the fight against time deregulation and its reduction to 35 hours per week in the Public Administration, in the business sector of the State and in the private sector and the fight against the precariousness of the serious standards of labour law. Portugal needs the recovery of pensions for reform and the strengthening and extension of social support. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to make a record of the worst signal given by the PS on the way back — first, I would say, when making a reel — of the PS proposal for the consecration of the penosity and risk allowance. The words on the importance of essential services workers relate first of all to the criteria of the Ministry of Finance. A signal is given on the criteria and priorities in the time of the many million now announced. As the CFP said and proposed, Portugal needs the defence and appreciation of public services, whose central role became even more evident. Portugal needs to ensure public control over companies and strategic sectors, bet on national production and more investment. That is the objective and commitment of the CFP. Mr Prime Minister, in adopting measures necessary for the creation of employment, for strengthening the SNS and other public services, for development, does he believe that Portugal must be subject to the European Union's taxation and police or any other country in the European Union? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u29	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u30	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, it is very clear that the crisis has made all the vulnerabilities in Portuguese society more serious, particularly in housing, employment and transport. This imposes and requires a very clear agenda of response to increase country resilience, better protect people and better serve Portuguese. It is not by chance the geography that we have of resistance to reducing the pandemic in our territory. It is the geography in the field of fragility where we must concentrate our efforts to respond to these vulnerabilities, and it must be there that we must set one of the pillars of the strategy of response to this crisis, because it needs immediate answers, but with this vision of the future. I therefore believe that we have a good area of convergence here for a joint position that ensures that we can respond in a sustainable way, with our eyes set in the future. The crisis has made it clear the fragility of our productive capacity and the need to reindustrialize the country, to proceed with the industrial conversion of our country, to value our natural resources, our agriculture, to respond to many of the deficits we have accumulated, from the food deficit to the production deficit. We actually have this work in front of us, and I think we have good working conditions. As far as Europe is concerned, we know what distinguishes us, but frankly, Mr, I believe that this is not the best week for us to say ill of Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u31	For questions from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin by complimenting you and by telling you that, after listening carefully, the first thing that happens to me is to make an appeal to you to have your feet on earth.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u34	I have heard Mr. Prime Minister make a speech that I think inspires, full of grandoloquent statements, but of concrete I have seen very little. To tell you the truth, the only thing I've seen in concrete were some requests for marriage to the old management. Mr Prime Minister, I know that there are fewer and fewer parties in Parliament who want to be part of management, but the CDS is one that definitely does not want to, I think we can take this opportunity to talk about some specific problems. And I have very practical questions to ask you. Mr. Prime Minister described a country almost, I would say, of the wonders — affected by the pandemic, but by the wonders — and I would like to remind him that, according to the forecasts of most organisms, the recession in Portugal caused by the pandemic will be worse than expected and worse than the government has foreseen. According to the European Commission, for example, worse than we only Italy, Croatia, Spain and France, because the overwhelming majority of other countries will have a less profound recession. I tell you this because, certainly, we all want to avoid it and because this is not just numbers, are the realities of many workers who are in layoff, already making a sacrifice, and that when that layoff ends up they will probably realize that their workplaces will not be able to reopen. We are talking about many small shops or small restaurants that lived from tourism and that, with the restrictions on travel to and from Portugal, they will not be able to stay open, with the consequent unemployment. More: most of the solutions created for these small businesses and for these small companies have a pompous name, but that entered the lexicon of all the small trader, of moratoriums,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u35	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u36	...which means deferrals. That is, the taxes are not finished, but we will postpone payments; the incomes are not finished, but let's add them; and, above all, the payments to the bank are not finished — they will even increase, because the credit has increased! - but let's postpone everything. So, because these delays are going to start falling at the end of this year and at the beginning of next year, what I asked you, Prime Minister, was the following: in concrete, do you have anything to say to these people? Do you have any measures to introduce them or are we just talking about words, big statements and big packages? As you can see, we will have a lot of discussions about strategic visions and energy, but practically for these companies we will have little. Secondly, because speed is crucial in this area, as regards the Recovery Fund, what has been announced in Europe provides for a very, very short implementation time, as Mr President says, from 2021 to 2023. I'd like to know if the government is thinking of a short, fast, simple, objective mechanism that allows companies to apply quickly or if, on the contrary, we're going to have another bureaucracy mechanism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u38	...of Public Administration and a true industry of candidatures to which very few will have access and, above all, access to those who are less deserving and in accordance with deeply direct and questionable criteria. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u39	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u40	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I did not trace this country of wonders, I drew the reality of a country that is undergoing a very serious economic and social crisis from the point of view of employment, from the point of view of loss of income and from the point of view of the fall of the product. It seems to be the Member of Parliament that is worse than we are three of the four largest European economies. I don't know if you noticed what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u41	Four!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u42	Three of the four largest European economies, I repeat. I wish the problem could be measured that way. The problem is in a very serious way and the answer I have to give is that which we have adopted in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and which frames and stabilizes the intervention by the end of this year, in order to allow time for the recovery programme to be drawn up, approved and regulated by the European Union and to enter into force. The deadline is very demanding, but it is not three years. It is three years for undertaking commitments and three more years for payments. They are therefore six years, which should not lighten us in any way, because, as I say, the average of what we have available is at least twice that of what has been our collective history of execution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u43	Of course it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u44	So we really need to speed up its preparation and implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u45	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u46	Mr President, Prime Minister, to debate the state of the nation is to recognize that the violent economic recession in which we are immersing originated in the health crisis that a virus imposed on the country and the planet, but also to debate public policies that caution future even more adverse scenarios. There is only one species responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic — we. Like climate crises or loss of biodiversity, recent pandemics are a direct consequence of human activity, particularly global financial and economic systems, based on a paradigm that values economic growth at any cost. It may be politically convenient at this time to relax environmental standards and support industries such as intensive agriculture, long-distance transport such as aviation, fossil fuel-dependent energy sectors or simple mining, but doing so without demanding urgent and fundamental changes is essentially to support the emergence of future pandemics. We can rebuild better and emerge from the current crisis stronger and more resilient, but doing so means choosing policies and actions that protect nature, so that nature can protect us. The debate on recovery is about options, is it about answers to these very concrete questions: do we want economic growth or economic adequacy? Do we want a society of consumption and disposal or a frugal socio-economic model? Do we want to maintain the hyperglobalization model or shorten production and distribution chains? Do we want kilometric food or food independence? Do we want to continue to favour trade relations with regimes such as Chinese or with countries that respect human rights and the best environmental standards? Debating the implementation of a new economic model with which the country, the Socialist Party with the support of the PSD, is, above all, talking about contradictions of those who say they are committed to combating the climate and environmental crisis. The government ignores the law and insists on building Montijo airport, a project that will irreversibly affect habitats and the quality of life of many people. We are still in time to adhere to the betting solution at Beja airport, with high-speed rail connection, as Mr. Minister of Territorial Cohesion defends. The Government continues to favour taxation of household income instead of taxing carbon because it maintains tax exemptions on fossil fuels in the production of energy, aviation and maritime navigation. in a context where the economy needs additional revenue, the government continues not to require the most polluting sectors to start contributing to reverse the state to which we have arrived. The Government intervenes in the TAP, the third most polluting company in the country, with EUR 1200 million and without requiring any environmental counterpart, such as Air France or KLM. The Government sees the uneven exploitation of mineral resources in the Azores Sea as an opportunity for alleged development and designates the left-hand extractivism of « blue economy ». to the prey of the entire scientific community, which alerts us that we should drastically reduce meat consumption, the government continues to deny and pay to pollute. It pays to produce, pays campaigns to stimulate consumption and leaves this devastating industry out of green taxation. On this point, the Minister for the Environment remains silent. Instead of supporting people in self-production of energy and energy efficiency, the government opts to channel a financial “bull” of EUR 1000 million of public money to the same ones as ever — EDP, Steel and cements. at this time, the Government has the unique opportunity to make an economic recovery based on a structural change that, by combating climate change, adopts a climate-neutral economic model. Mr Prime Minister, we will receive EUR 55 billion from Europe to recover the economy. I ask you what percentage of this money will be channelled to combat climate change and we can be assured that no support will be given to activities that call into question the achievement of the goals of economic decarbonisation and that pollution industries will not be restored. But, Prime Minister today, taking advantage of your presence here, I cannot help but question about the slaughter of animals that happened last weekend in Santo Tirso. The silence of those who protect animal protection in Portugal, of the Director of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) and of the Minister of Agriculture, does not surprise anyone because we all know that their priority is the well-being of livestock producers and exporters. They're never missing anything. We have not yet given up on convincing you and the Government that we must withdraw this responsibility for the protection of DGAV, which is historically incompetent in the enforcement of animal protection and welfare laws. The Director of DGAV is most in charge, and he lacks an essential competence: he lacks humanity. But it was more worrying to hear Minister Eduardo Cabrite say that — and I quote — "no failures have been detected" in Santo Tirso. In addition to the criminal conduct of the owners of shelters, the serious failures of the president of the chamber and the veterinary doctor, did Minister Eduardo Cabrita see no failure in the attitude of the GNR military that prevented the fulfilment of the duty of aid? Oh, my God! We could not understand how Mr. Minister of Internal Administration said that it was all right when, at the time of animals dying and dying alive, the security forces prevented the people from saving them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u48	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all with regard to the funds, it is very clear that the next multiannual financial framework and, above all, the Economic Recovery Programme, in addition to its own programmes with regard to climate action, 30 % of all others have to have a contribution to climate action. This is a fundamental rule. Secondly, I was not here, but I saw what he described, and well, as a shocking slaughter of animals in Santo Tirso. It is absolutely intolerable what happened! As far as the facts are concerned, I will naturally await the results of the survey opened by the General Inspection of Internal Administration ( IGAI ). As far as the State is concerned, I have no doubt that we have to reconsider it, because obviously the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary is not designed to take care of pets and clearly has not revealed any ability or competence to conform to the new legislative reality that we have. And we must also make an effort to listen to the municipalities and reflect on the legal framework we have created. It is a legal framework that, even as a former author, I know it is possible to be fulfilled, but I admit that the other 307 municipalities are not identical to the city of Lisbon. And I think we should have the humility to evaluate the law and know what we must do so that this alarming situation does not continue to occur and that situations like this, which are deeply revolting, do not happen again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u49	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u50	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to what we have seen in recent days and even in recent weeks, Europe's response to the crisis has been "strengthened to iron". That is, even in a situation like the one we live in, with the weight of a crisis on our backs, the European Union gives no sign of any solidarity between States. But in this answer, by the way, everyone has won: some, because they have imposed their will and because they have gained more power within the European Union and others because of the financial volume they say they have achieved. And the enthusiasm of the latter is such that it seems that there have been no cuts in subsidies and that the conditionalisms imposed and the attentive surveillance of the superworker have no relevance from the point of view of our sovereignty. But we know that's not the case. Therefore, Prime Minister, it was important to know whether the Portuguese Government is at any risk of seeing its Economic Recovery Programme "staying in cod water" if any Member State moves such overwork. Then, Prime Minister, I have just heard you say that you need to listen to the municipalities. Now, with regard to the appointment of the former Minister of Finance to the Banco de Portugal, we have heard Mr. Prime Minister say that the amendments to the law cannot address specific cases, they cannot be personalised, because that would even be a kind of persecution. And we agree, even because the laws must be of a general and abstract nature. But now, in the process of building Montijo airport, the government is considering changing the law to pass over the municipal chambers that do not agree with the government and to do the same to Vinci. If, in the case of Banco de Portugal, the amendment to the law had as its addressee a person, in the case of Montijo airport, the recipients are two municipal chambers. But philosophy or principle is exactly the same. That is why it would be appropriate for you to explain to us, Mr Prime Minister, which, in substance, distinguishes these two situations from the principle point of view. In conclusion, I would like to say that Mr Prime Minister referred, in his initial speech, to the question of the removal of asbestos from schools, but the authors say that the proceedings are not running as well as the government 'paint'. Of course, with regard to financing, because the value of the Community funds, which should cover 100 % of the works, is not enough, which will require financial reinforcement by local authorities. Indeed, Mr. Prime Minister, 55 € / m2 represents about half of the actual market cost. So either the contests are deserts, or the authorities bear half the costs. But the government says that the Community funds cover the total amount of work. Mr. Prime Minister, where are we?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u52	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, about Montijo airport, let us be clear: the government has made a great deal of negotiating effort. I myself meet with the presidents of the Municipal Chambers of the Six and the Moita. the meeting with the President of the City Council of Sixal concluded that there is no specific problem with regard to the Town Hall of Sixal, except the general opposition that the President of the Chamber has with regard to that location, since he prefers Alcochete. As for the President of the City Council of Moita, there are indeed specific problems. One of them, identified by him, but which was not relevant, is the limitation of the building rights and another, seriously, regarding the environmental impact, particularly in the Bajo da Banheira. What we agreed to do, and has been developed by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, is a work aimed at developing a specific project of intervention in the Baixa da Banheira as a whole. We wanted to do this together with Mr. President of the Moita Municipal Chamber, in particular with the technical support of the Moita Municipal Chamber. If you ask me if it's been easy, I say no, it's not easy. But as we are persistent, we do not give up. And what is unequivocal and will have to be guaranteed is that there will be no airport in Montijo without solving the environmental problems of Moita and, in particular, the freguey of Baixa da Banheira. With regard to Europe, no country has the right to veto. And allow me a final sentence: it is true that Europe's response to the crisis has been'stretched to iron', but it has been removed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u53	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u54	Mr President, Prime Minister, what remains of this debate on the state of the nation is the request for a re-amouring of the Socialist Party to the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PS protests.]] But I wanted to tell you one thing: that, with the little eyes that you have done to the Democratic Social Party, you should be careful, because the loving triangles don't usually work very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u55	You know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u56	This is a warning that should be taken into account. Mr. Prime Minister, you spoke in resilience, resistance and strength—they were your words. Now this is a country where business insolvencys have increased to more than 1300 in the first half of the year, a country for which the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) provides for 9, 8 % of GDP and Europe to fall by a maximum of 13 %. We have regions like Algarve where unemployment has increased by 204 %, while in the north it has increased by 25 % and exports have fallen by 42 %. All these are data that are in memory, because it is the memory that marks the effort of the Portuguese in this matter. What is the government's strategy to avoid this? The usual miserableness of going to Europe 'long-handed' to ask for money.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u57	Did we have to go hunting? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u58	It is that there is no other strategy but to extend the hand, sadly, saying: « Help us, please, because we no longer know what to do». This was the strategy of José Socrates and that is the strategy of Antonio Costa. But I would like to ask you a question about corruption. You told me here, in the first debate we had, the following: 'Don't worry, Mr, that until the end of the legislative session, the Government will have a plan of the working group against corruption. This is a cancer that kills and destroys Portugal». And the Minister of Justice told me that by the end of June this plan would be completed. Now, we are on the verge of closing the legislative session in July, so I ask: where is this plan against the corruption they promised to the Portuguese?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u59	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u60	Mr President, Mr Ventura, precisely because of the proliferation of debates we have had, we have not now presented, but will be presented at the beginning of September, the National Strategy against Corruption. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Mr President, as a patriot and nationalist, I am very surprised that I think the solidarity of Europe is not to serve our people and our country. But let's be clear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u61	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u62	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am very sorry to have you here in debate, because, following what we adopted yesterday, the next time we are debating will be much closer to Christmas. What was approved here yesterday is another sign of a kind of Nation submissing that its governance is creating, which is already serious of itself. But it is especially serious because we are going to enter a period when we need everything less submission and an amorphous nation. There are worlds and funds in Europe — more funds than worlds — and a nation that does not know how to organize properly to take advantage of this opportunity, of money that is not given and that future generations will one day have to pay, will waste an opportunity to develop. There are three characteristics which the implementation of the funds should have, Prime Minister. Firstly, these funds must be implemented in a transparent manner. And with regard to the governance of these funds, very little is known and there is no guarantee that there are no guarantees that these compatible applications and corruption will not be registered around them. Then the funds must be applied with speed. And in addition to eliminating the Kafkiana bureaucracy around European funds, we need to have the notion that the EUR 3000 million we used to have annually will go twice as much and in a few years almost triple what we had. Without having the possibility to speed up the application strongly, the State will decide on all the projects, all the applications of these investments, we will never be able to implement these funds. Finally, the funds must be applied with discretion and rationality, so as not to happen what happened in Eng.o Socrates time, which is to end up in a monstrous public debt cake, which still suffocates us today. And, in order to solve this issue of rationality, we have the great strategic vision of Eng.o Costa Silva, the para-minister that the Liberal Initiative would have listened to in this Parliament, which would have saved a lot of paper and, above all, this unfortunate thing to replace, in political imagination, the very Portuguese cream pastel by the very international donut. along the 140 pages of the report, what is seen is more state, more address, more collectiveism and very little individual initiative. And Prof. Costa Silva still finds time to blame for the ills of Portugal for liberal policies, when the PS ruled the country in the last 18 years. There's got to be a can! So, what does Prof. Costa Silva suggest? It suggests that we will come to the sea, but also to the interior and also, probably, to the Algarve, which is a mixture of sea and interior. But we must also turn to the Lusophony, and to Asia, and to the North Atlantic, and to the South as well. And he didn't forget Europe. Now, this isn't an Atlantic jangada, this is a wagon that's getting water all over the place! But it doesn't stay here, because it says you have to bet. In what? In railways, ports, defense, language, new energies, digital networks, technological innovation, creative industries, SNS, reindustrialization, biotechnology, universities, bicycles, science, 5G, forest, air quality, biological agriculture, qualifications. And there are 30 more of these things! Mr. Prime Minister, this is not a plan, this is a catalogue! This is not a vision, it is a delirium directed by the State. So, third and last question: what priorities are actually going to be chosen from this role? And you're going to leave some space for people's freedom or you're going to let the state, omnipresent, in a Submissive Nation, decide all this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u64	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u65	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, as you have kindly asked me no questions, I take the opportunity for the first time to be able to agree with you in three words: transparency, speed, criterion and rationality. After all, it was four words. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u66	There are 10 more entries for requests for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister. In the meantime, the Government has already informed the Bureau that Mr. Prime Minister will answer together. To this end, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u67	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, if you asked us, six months ago, in which state the Nation would be today, none of us, in their perfect judgment, could imagine. So what we are asked to do today is not a diagnosis — that is, we are afraid to do it; what we are asked is to face the extremely difficult situation because so many Portuguese people are going through and to be clear as the way forward to overcome this crisis. One lesson to be drawn is the necessity of strong public services, capable of responding to unpredictable social needs. But when we look at public services, what we see is that workers are lacking in health, education, social security, security forces, justice, and that workers who are able to operate public services are mostly on the edge of the retirement age. And we do not see any intention on the part of the Government to recruit indispensable workers for the Public Administration, nor to rejuvenate services, nor to guarantee the minimum capacity for responding to essential services. Another lesson to be drawn is that the privatizations carried out in recent decades were a crime of liga-fatherhood. The cases of TAP, ANA, CTT, PT, EDP, banks, basic industries plundered national wealth and resources and were a feast for corrupt and speculators. Today, we are a impoverished country, living a tourism based on precarious, deindustrialized work, dependent on imports of consumer goods that we could and should produce. Putting all hopes in solidarity with a European Union that has nothing of solidarity backs us to the prophecies of Bandarra — if there is no sovereign national development strategy, we can look forward to the fact that "The Desire" appears in a foggy morning, now coming from Brussels in the form of funds, which we can come to pay dearly. Mr Prime Minister, the Government has just announced an economic and social recovery programme which contains measures which, in itself, are not answered, but the question is who will benefit from these measures. What assurances does the Prime Minister give us that the promised increase in wealth is accompanied by a fair distribution and does not compete for an even greater inequality in the division between capital and labour? What assurances do we have that promises of industrialization and modernization of the production fabric are supposed to have national control and import substitution and are not new developments in foreign capital subordination? What guarantees do we have that the investment announced is not just another step towards draining billions of euros into new national economic groups, and above all foreign? These are the assurances we would like to have, Prime Minister. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u68	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, you have now acknowledged, after the pandemic, that the precariousness of working relationships and the fragility of incomes have exposed many of our citizens to the dangers of the pandemic. It also acknowledges that today it is visible that the deregulation of the labour market is a problem of our society. His consultant António Costa Silva, when asked about how to qualify our economy, did not write it, but said in the presentation of the Economic and Social Recovery Plan, during this week, that the answer is simple: to end precarious work, and this will lead companies to the valorization of work and the qualification of workers. Therefore, if what the Left Block has said so many times—and said so - soon after the legislative elections—that is, it was essential to defend employment, incomes, and thus creating a better economy and a better country, if that had been applied, perhaps the innovative ideas of Antonio Costa Silva were no longer so innovative, and the complaints of Mr. Prime Minister did not seem to be some « crocodile tears», because, in fact, what we are seeing today could and should have been avoided. Even during the pandemic, while other governments realized that they had to act quickly to protect employment, the Portuguese Government of the PS was against the proposal of the Left Block to ban layoffs. After this introduction, we can ask, when Mr Prime Minister talks about strengthening stability, whether he is available for strengthening the stability of families, to recognise that it is, in fact, essential to move into the world of work, because there are the rights of the younger, the incomes of all, the rights that they consider an economy capable of dealing with the future that we have before us. And if that is true, which of your two words is to take seriously: the one who says it is necessary to move in the labour market, because it regrets the effect of this pandemic, or the one in which it says that any agreement in this direction is impossible, as there are still times said? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u70	It is now Mr. Carlos Pereira's turn to the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, I will basically present a note of disappointment and two questions that I would like Mr. Prime Minister to comment on. The disappointment note concerns the intervention in this Parliament of the leader of the opposition in the first debate on the state of the nation after this extraordinary crisis, in which it emerges with a speech — allow me to express that which everyone understands — frugal. Frugal, because it gives the idea that, with the PSD, as it seems more or less obvious, the country is anchored in doubts, uncertainties, obstacles, without any ambition and without any courage for absolutely nothing. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] And that is absolutely devastating in this House, at the time that the country is experiencing this serious crisis. The questions, Prime Minister, have to do with the following: when this crisis began, all Portuguese realized that it was necessary to raise their sleeves and go to the fight. And the government did this job: he got his sleeves together and went to the fight. And today it has already been realized that the country has an Economic and Social Stabilization Programme to combat the crisis by the end of the year, it already has an approved Supplementary Budget, it already has an ongoing recovery plan and it already has a financing mechanism. Now, the question and question that everyone might ask today, and which seems absolutely legitimate to me, is the following: who would do better? Oh, my God! [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u72	The question that needs to be answered is, who would do better? Oh, my God! And it is challenging any Member to take a step and to say who was able to do better, that mechanisms would have better, in this circumstance, that policies would be better adapted, in a climate of great uncertainty and great economic and social tragedy. The last question relates to something that has already been discussed here and which seems very relevant to me. It has to do with how this government is fighting this crisis. This is not anything smaller, because the question that remains and with which everyone is also equating is what Portugal would be today if the country's responses had been those of the PSD/CDS cartilage in the previous crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'll answer right now: it would be the devil, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u73	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have even brought up a different question to ask you, Prime Minister, but, in view of the absence of your answer to Dr. Rui Rio, will I insist on the same question: will you or will there be excessive incomes in hydrogen? And let me ask you this question, make two points and ask you one more question. First, I do not know whether Mr. Prime Minister has the notion of what the Government's programme on hydrogen says. The Government's programme makes a lay promise to evaluate other alternative fuels, such as hydrogen. This was what the government promised in October last year. A few months later, with a Dutch or Dutch, the government has a strategy for hydrogen. We, PSD, write in our 2019 Election Program that hydrogen is fundamental to decarbonization and sustainability, but we fully disagree with this centralized model. In fact, Mr. Prime Minister came to say there was an auction. There was no auction, Prime Minister! There was a request for expressions of interest regarding investments in hydrogen. That's what this is about. And if Mr. Prime Minister had taken into account the demonstrations, the factory, the central, did not go to Sines, but to Estarreja, because the biggest investment, announced and expressed as interest, happens in Estarreja. We disagree with this centralized strategy in Sines, not only for technological reasons, for all the reasons that have already been invoked, but also because this is the view of some associations, of some entities, who have already told Mr. Prime Minister. But above all, we doubted and asked three things: the slightness with which the strategy is being implemented, the recklessness that is associated and finally the lack of transparency, Prime Minister! The Prime Minister insists on transparency, and our question regarding the construction of this power plant is very simple: it is a matter of knowing, in addition to excessive incomes, how the strategic partners of the government will be chosen in this process. 2, 7 billion euro will be invested. And is the government going to hold an international contest to choose these partners or is it going to shake hands with the usual ones? Oh, my God! You're going to pick them by the finger, as it seems it's already happening, without transparency, without knowing exactly what the business model is, without knowing what the costs and impacts are for the economy and for the country! So, Prime Minister, the very simple question is this: how will the government choose the partners, with what criteria? Are you going to hold an international contest? And is there going to be excessive income in hydrogen? Mr. Prime Minister has an obligation to explain to this House and to the country once and for all whether or not it is. It cannot be to flee, as it systematically does, to these questions, which are of the greatest relevance and of the greatest interest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u75	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, Prime Minister, we would like to welcome the fact that the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs has not been able to adapt to the one which is today a value also recognised at the level of public policies — animal protection. And, Prime Minister, more than you will ask, we urge you to follow the NAP in that which has been the claim by a Directorate-General that is truly focused on the necessary animal protection. In view of this, in this debate, we would like to ask you some questions, particularly on justice, housing and combating poverty. In fact, despite the economic recovery plan and the responses given to the country, it seems to us that they are still insufficient in these areas. From now on, because the country urgently needs to have a national strategy to combat corruption, a phenomenon that costs Portugal 18 billion euros every year; a phenomenon that gives citizens every day a lack of confidence in the institutions of political power and in justice. So, Prime Minister, can the Government here undertake to bring the national anti-corruption strategy, which is being worked out, to the Assembly of the Republic, even this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u77	I said it'll be September!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u78	More: in order to combat corruption, Mr. Prime Minister, there must be investment, there must be teams and not leave behind the fundamental means so that this phenomenon can be combated and that media cases such as Operation Marquis or the BES case, which take decades to have a final outcome, can be solved in time and are not marking the slowness of justice. in this sense, Prime Minister, will we at least carry out this measure in the next budget or continue to postpone it? As regards housing, Mr. Prime Minister, the problems that existed were undoubtedly compounded by the crisis caused by the coronavirus, the scenario that the policies of PS and PSD, based on the visasgold and the status of the unusual resident, but also in the betting of an unsustainable tourism model and with short-term profit logics, have removed people from cities, particularly young people. In recent years, Portugal has been one of the countries in which the price of housing has risen and in which spending on family charges has more been reflected in families, in particular in renting. In 2020 only 24 % of young people under 30 years of age have their own home. If we don't change the paradigm, this scenario will get worse. Therefore, Prime Minister, what is asked is whether the government will insist on this mechanism, which only brings gentrification to the cities, or whether it will actually bet on returning people back to the city. We take a good look at the measures provided for in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme on housing. However, we need to go further, Mr Prime Minister, in particular in the fight against poverty and the social inequalities that still persist in our country. Measures such as the National Stock Exchange of Urgent Housing and Housing First or the local housing conversion program should not be forgotten in the drawer, be successively postponed or not correctly disclosed. We therefore ask you what are the temporal targets for the implementation of these measures, Prime Minister. More: at this stage of recommendation, it is absolutely crucial that the Government ensure that recovery will not have spectrum in austerity at the glance. Mr Prime Minister, can you assure us that austerity will not be on the table and that we will not have more precariousness or loss of income than it will inevitably already result from the crisis? At a time when unemployment grows and income breakdown is a reality in the lives of most people, recovery must not lose out on the progress we have made in fighting poverty, social exclusion, combating discrimination, and, despite being insufficient, have been very important. So when is a national strategy that is so lacking in the country in these areas?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u79	In order to make requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u80	Mr President, Prime Minister, the debate on the strategy for recovery is critical—we have already entered the debate on public investment with some delay—but it should not omit or sideline the issue of emergency response and the fight against poverty. The government has highlighted, in its speech, the fight against poverty, but the fact is that the measures put in place to respond to the victims of the crisis do not, unfortunately, allow people to leave the poverty situation. There are structural problems resulting from the precariousness of work, the fragility of protection in unemployment and it is to be noted that the social benefits of unemployment still cover only half of the unemployed and were reduced in value and duration and not the cuts that were introduced in the time of the PSD/CDS government under the troika were completely eliminated from this social benefit. Between 2005 and 2018, the poverty risk rate of the unemployed increased from 28 % to 42 % and therefore this shows a situation of great vulnerability, which becomes especially dramatic in a context such as that in which the country entered in recent months. In the Supplementary Budget — and that was one of the reasons that led to the Left Block's viability — important measures of extraordinary and temporary support were envisaged: the social unemployment allowance was strengthened, as well as the new support for informal workers, but the problem is that none of these extraordinary support is even referred to as the poverty threshold. Social benefit is worth €150 below the poverty threshold reference, new support for informal workers and domestic workers is far from that threshold and even the measures already taken, such as the RSI (social income of insertion) and the solidarity complement for the elderly have values that do not reach the poverty threshold. If we want to combat poverty we must, of course, have a policy to prevent the social irresponsibility of layoffs in profit companies, because they must have and must be obliged to have a role to contain pandemic and unemployment, to contain the poverty pandemic, and therefore these companies, which have structure and framework to respond to their staff framework, must maintain that responsibility. It is also necessary to respond in the fight against precariousness. It is necessary to respond with a structural change to the protection of unemployment and to ensure that social protection actually enables people to leave poverty and does not keep them in that condition. Therefore, Prime Minister, the question I leave to you is whether the Government is available to respond to those who need support, to whom it depends on these support, with the assurance that the poverty threshold is indeed a reference for the guarantee of rights and that "no one should leave behind" has an effective material translation and a consequence in people's lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u81	To make requests for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Portuguese are living very hard days. The next few years will be a hard fight against the pandemic and its social and economic consequences. Therefore, the country needs to have, create and maintain political conditions to do what needs to be done. We have heard in recent days that the PSD has no plague, that the PS does not have plague... And yet, because the political differences between parties must be that same: diversity, plurality, alternative programmes and not a permanent political zanga and much less a permanent war. But, of course, the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP also have no plague, and besides having no plague they have one very important thing: they have made a way with us since 2015 to meet the needs of the country, and this recommends that we take advantage of this experience to continue what needs to be done, which is a lot. in these difficult years, we need to be very sure of the way that needs to be done. And here's a question: in the previous crisis, the PSD also started very thin. While he was in the opposition he said that there was no need to increase taxes, no need to cut pensions, no need to cut wages, no need to do anything. Then he caught up with the government and said that it was necessary to go beyond the troika, said that it was necessary to impoverish and that the cuts in rights had to be permanent. So there's a problem here. The question I want to ask you, Prime Minister, is about an area in which we have to be very sure of which is the direction and how to keep it: education and public school. in these circumstances, the public school gave an extraordinary response, either when it was necessary to interrupt the presence activities, or when it was necessary to resume them, for the secondary and for the younger. And we are in a situation that is that we need to resume present education, we need to resume the lives of our children and young people, we need to resume normal family life, we need to give security and trust. But this has to be done by betting in the media, both in material terms — for example, in digital school — as professionals — teachers, technicians — and we need a safe line of protection of public school and strong messages for our children, families and education professionals. I would like to ask you about this, Mr Prime Minister: are we able to do what needs to be done, which is to resume present education safely, with all precautions, but once again giving life to our schools and our students? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u83	To make requests for clarification, Mr. Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u84	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the beginning of this week, we all follow what happened at the European Council because of the importance of decisions for the future of Europe and for the future of the country. I noticed, with particular interest, that he had the kindness and kindness to offer his peers a mask of Portugal, of course with the expectation that this would also raise them awareness and keep them attentive to Portuguese reality in the context of the discussion. Today, I also brought you a mask with the flag of the Azores, in the same spirit in which I understand that, in the same way as Europe is for the Republic, the Republic must be for the Azores.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u86	I am sure that Mr. Prime Minister, when I like to wear this mask that I offer you today, will have, for obvious and obvious reasons, the problems of the Azores more visible and more attentive to their concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u88	The two questions I want to ask you are very objective. The solution found and voted on in this Chamber for the first resolution of the impact of COVID on the Azores was the availability for the increase of debt by 10 %. This means, in large part, that in the case of the Azores GDP we are talking about EUR 400 million. This European Council achieved something very important, which was to share a debt through the joint responsibility of all countries, with a historically low interest rate — no country alone would have achieved it — with a shortage which implies that only from 2026 start to take on costs and within 30 years. The first question I ask you, and objectively, is this: is it available to accept the commitment that the EUR 400 million in the debt of the Azores come from these European loan funds at historically low rates?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u90	Second question: according to data from the National Institute of Statistics, the Azores are the region of the country most affected by the crisis of the COVID, either from an economic point of view, or from its tourist activity. The question I put to you is the following: the Azores will have a GDP fall between 15 % and 25 %, the largest in the country, corresponding to about EUR 1000 million. of more than EUR 15 billion coming to the country, which is ultimately lost, and the value corresponding to this loss for the Azores of about EUR 1000 million, I ask you if you are in a position to accept the commitment to affect the most damaged, most martyred and forgotten region during the COVID by the Government of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u91	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u92	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a year ago when the debate on the state of the nation itself took place in this House, we could not imagine the scenario of enormous uncertainty that we live in or the radical changes to our way of life. But there was constant certainty: in the face of a crisis that affects all generations and sectors, there was a central response from the State, because this time there is a government that has placed all its efforts and resources to respond to people's problems, without placing on them the total burden of the response, without forgetting those most in need of our intervention and support and thus maintaining and strengthening the confidence of Portuguese people. This trust in the institutions, in the Government, in the Prime Minister, in this difficult period, without negation of the crisis and difficulties we face, is what allows us to transmit to the younger generations that not only do we not abandon a great plan to find the realization that they expect of the country and is their right, as there is an untiring priority in the recovery of the opportunities, incomes and difficulties they face. It was with this government that we recovered from the desperate levels of young unemployment and placed on decent and quality employment. This pandemic precisely contradicts the theory that work loses its centrality in modern societies or that it dies, as a form of collective organization of society. For this reason, our vision of a collective future is focused on renewing and broadening an objective of this government today more than ever: combating excessive deregulation of the labour market and supporting those most affected by precariousness and social and labour disprotection. in a society where inequalities persist, the pandemic has expanded these effects and are precisely the least qualified, with less incomes, the most excluded from opportunities of digital society, the most precarious, the most affected and among them the younger ones. The PS and this government reject a view that the newest generation of the country, of the least qualified, is forced to accept any work for any salary, under any conditions, i.e., voted to postpone life routes. That is why, Prime Minister, the question we have raised and on which we want to hear the government is this: how do we realize this vision of the collective future of a less regulated labour market, which does not leave the most vulnerable vulnerable and, among them, the younger generation, on which great challenges and questions are involved, now that we have a new future? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u93	To make the last request for clarification, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u94	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, discussing the state of the nation is also discussing the state of the relationship between the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Autonomous Region of Madeira. And what has been that relationship in the legislative session that is about to end? Unfortunately, Mr. Prime Minister, it has been a relationship marked by many and successive failures, by recurrent delays and unceasing setbacks in the political discourse of the Government of the Republic concerning Madeira. The question of Madeira's moratorium in the context of PAEF is a good example of my statement. Nevertheless, it has been resolved that Parliament seems to be the problem, we hope, Prime Minister, that within three days your Government will suspend Madeira's 48 million payment obligation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u95	Mr. Prime Minister, what is inexplicably not yet resolved is the issue of avalanche. Will the government grant the proper and fair endorsement to Madeira or not? Yes or no? This is the question that requires you to answer. Aval has no government charge and will allow an annual saving of around EUR 5 million to Madeira. It should be noted that what is at issue here is, above all, a question of solidarity and political goodwill of the Government of the Republic, at a time of great emergency for families and businesses also in Madeira. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate of the State of the Nation may be an opportunity for your Government to correct the path and create conditions so that we can, from now on, have a relationship based on genuine cooperation. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to catch up on the road, to draw a new direction, a new relationship between the Republic and Madeira. It is time to turn the page, Madeira deserves respect, Madeira deserves dialogue, Madeira deserves to be included in the strategy for the difficult times to come. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u96	To put questions, Mrs Lara Martinho from the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, this is the first balance debate of this Parliament, in a historic legislative session in which our vision of the world has changed; changes in recent months have been incalculable and its effects on the future are not yet fully known. But there is something we already know: we must do even more and better to overcome the hardships caused by this pandemic. The European Commission itself, in a recent report, stressed the socio-economic consequences of the pandemic, particularly in regions which depend heavily on tourism, and specified the Algarve, the Azores and Madeira. He even pointed out that this situation requires targeted and well-focused political responses. Mr. Prime Minister, we must ensure not only that we survive this crisis as we become stronger when we get out of it. We are well aware of the crucial importance that the European funds have had over the years for the development of the Azores and Madeira, from agriculture, fisheries and tourism, sectors that are very affected by the pandemic we live in, which emphasizes even more the importance of the ambitious and innovative European agreement reached for the Recovery Fund and for the next multiannual financial framework. from there the added value of a strong cohesion policy, which, in fact, deserved an accrual defence by Mr Prime Minister, in addition to maintaining the 85 % co-financing rate or strengthening of the specific funds for the Azores and Madeira by EUR 35 million. My question, Prime Minister, is to know what link will be made with the autonomous regions so that an appropriate and fair transfer is made either from the Recovery Fund or from the next multiannual financial framework for the Azores and Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u98	You have the floor now, Mr. Prime Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to reply very briefly to leave time to my colleague, Minister of Health. Firstly, with regard to the need to strengthen public services, we must do so. Since 2015, we have strengthened the National Health Service in more than 20,000 professionals and have now done an extraordinary reinforcement that needs to be consolidated. We will invest more EUR 125 million in hiring human resources so that we can strengthen the public school: about 2500 teachers and 850 specialists, in order to have a public school that is indeed the appropriate response to the effort to recover knowledge. No, the way is not austerity, the way, on the contrary, is that we can respond to those who need it most. And therefore, over these months, we have managed to respond to self-employed workers; workers in layoff situations, with the addition of stabilization; with the strengthening of the food programme; with the automatic extension of the social unemployment allowance; with the allocation of social income of insertion, taking into account the incomes present and not the priests; with the additional provision of the family allowance; with the creation of 21 emergency shelter spaces; with the housing of 583 people, under the Housing First programme. Yes, this has been the answer! The answer is not to prohibit redundancies, because banning redundancies is probably to destroy companies and generate more redundancies. What we need to do to ensure employment is to pursue a strategy to revive the economy and protect employment in order to ensure sustainability and the future. One last word, to say the following: I am very perplexed by the intervention of the PSD. The PSD, instead of coming here today announce at least one, two or three of the six Autoeuropas that promised the country, the only thing it said was that it is against the innovative industrial project and mobilising around hydrogen. The PSD position is extraordinary! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now enter a period of intervention. Mr Rui Rio of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is impossible for the debate of the nation state of 2020 not to be marked in history by the pandemic the world has faced. Its brutal effect on health, on the economy, on education and, fundamentally, on social standards obliges us to make clear here the priorities that the country and, in particular, its governance should follow in the future. The government is not responsible for the existence of the COVID and its devastating effects on our society, but is responsible for the response that it is capable of giving such effects. It is the responsibility of the pandemic for the brutal fall of our economic growth, but it will be the government's policies that will determine the success or failure of the country's recovery, said otherwise, that may lead to greater or less suffering for people, in the short and especially in the medium term. In the context of health, with experience already acquired, a capable response is required not only in the fight against the epidemic, but especially in the context of its daily functioning. It is not fair, nor can it happen, that there continue to be Portuguese without the proper and timely treatment of all other diseases. If at the beginning of the pandemic such failures could be understood, over time these failures are absolutely unacceptable. [[PSD applause.]] It is imperative that there be organization and effectiveness in the National Health Service, to avoid or at least minimize the suffering of people. In education, the damages inflicted on students, in particular those from the most disadvantaged social classes, demand an extra capacity of the Ministry of Education to adapt the next school year, of how to recover the delays it caused this year. If the government does not do so, we must be aware that we are undermining the future of the country, in general, and of our young students, in particular. It is, however, in the economy that everything will be decided. Without economic recovery there will not be sufficient means for all other sectors, starting with the social sector, which is the one that can directly help people to reduce their suffering. It is true that the country needs a short-term response to give to profitable companies whose sector of activity is still directly affected by the pandemic. But the country needs, above all, to be able to put the large European funds to the service of a strategy aimed at the competitiveness of our economy and not for a mere distribution of conjuncural obedience or for unrealistic or megalomanic projects. [[PSD applause.]] The post-COVID-19 economy will have very significant changes to the present situation. Portugal therefore needs to shape its productive structure according to what will be the new reality. the enormous importance of the rigorous and effective use of the enormous amount of funds which the European Union has decided to make available to Portugal. To fall into the political temptation to please only in the short term, distributing the money according to party logic or submission to the most powerful interests, will regret the future of our society and do exactly the opposite of what is required, if we have the courage to have solely in order to improve our quality of life, to defend the future of the younger ones and to protect those who need us most.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u103	We must be aware that, in the state in which our public debt and our external indebtedness are located, any mistake that the government makes will have decisive effects on our collective future. this time, there is no margin to fail nor margin to delay. [[PSD applause.]] A concrete example of this was our diplomatic inability to explain the Portuguese health reality and thus ensure that the airports of Faro and Porto did not suffer the consequences of the recent pandemic state in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley. A government failure that immediately brought serious and direct consequences to the Algarve, as a whole, and to many snakes, in particular. It is not, therefore, exciting to see the government significantly fail the macroeconomic forecasts contained in the Supplementary Budget and, above all, it is highly worrying to see how the TAP and the New Bank files have been managed. We are facing two monsters of gigantic proportions, in view of the weakness of our public finances and the economic and social environment we are going through. In the New Bank, it is not understood that the Government regularly delivers millions of euros of our taxes, without taking care to analyse in detail the fairness of these payments and the reasonableness of the losses claimed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u105	Losses that the bank opened on the sale of real estate, precisely in high time on the real estate market. The New Bank must have been the only owner in Portugal who sold properties to lose money in the years immediately prior to the pandemic. And it gets weirder when, for the news we heard, it seems to have sold to investment funds with a recent link to the President of his own General Supervisory Board. Although this transaction may be formally considered to be legal, it is ethically very questionable and lacks detailed clarification. [[PSD applause.]] Furthermore, it is not understood why the New Bank groups in gigantic lots the buildings it intends to alienate, restricting demand and thus strengthening the negotiating weight of potential buyers. All that we have seen and heard is enough for the Public Prosecutor's Office to be able to examine how this New Bank sales contract to Lone Star has been executed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u107	In the face of this whole framework, and as I have already had the opportunity to mention here about two months ago, the government is required to ensure that it accurately assesses the value of the large millions of euros that it has often transferred from our impoverished public finances to this unsatisfied successor of the ironically nicknamed « good bank ». [[PSD applause.]] But if we also look at the way the state entered the TAP, everything makes us afraid of the worst. TAP is a bankrupt company, by continuous accumulation of losses. TAP was unable to present a business plan and the corresponding restructuring. The TAP only asked for the money it understood and the government decided to give it EUR 1 billion immediately, which, among other things, serves, among other things, to pay the principal layoff which, although it did not have money, TAP decided to pay its employees, such as wages that it likes to distribute in years of loss. [[PSD applause.]] It is also for this that now goes the money of the Portuguese taxes, including those Portuguese who, being, or having been, in Layoff, saw their wages cut in a third up to 1900 € and in all above that value. As I have always said, without a credible plan, without a properly negotiated restructuring and without a clearly defined horizon, the State should not enter into a business that everything has to help the country ruin financially. We have many needs, we have many people going through difficulties and we have public finances in a highly worrying state. Only this, by itself, deserved the State to deal with these two gross dossiers in a much more prudent manner. [[PSD applause.]] What explanation will the Government give to the country if for a year now TAP is on hand to ask the Portuguese for more than a few million euros? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government and the parties of the so-called management have repeated to the satiety that there will be no austerity. It means that they will not be austere and that, as a result, the Portuguese will not have to suffer with even more failures, with high unemployment, significant breaks in their income and serious degradation of public services, especially those aimed at responding to social problems. It's a goal that no one can refuse. Only those who are not in their perfect judgment do not want everything to run in the way that the PS, the PCP and the Left Block have repeatedly promised the country. from the PSD, we are aware of the state of the nation and we know what Portugal really needs. We need more efficient public services, to better serve people, to reduce excessive bureaucracy and to mitigate the costs of context that make it difficult to operate our economy. We need faster, more modern and more competent justice. A justice that does not hinder economic activity and that combats corruption with competence and effectiveness in the right place, which is the courts and not the pages of newspapers. [[PSD applause.]] We need public investment with strong drag power and great multiplier effect to help the economic recovery and, above all, to help strengthen the competitiveness of our economy. Above all, we need to create the necessary conditions for our SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) to strengthen their competitiveness in external markets with higher value added products in order to create more and better jobs for Portuguese. Mr President, the pandemic the country faces is a highly negative and harmful phenomenon for all of us. We all preferred that this had not happened. But, having happened, we must be able to react in the most effective and competent way that is within our reach. With the enormous help of the European funds, we must be able to transform the threat that has been posed on us into an opportunity to modernise our society and strengthen our competitiveness. We know how to extract from the situation that we live in what is positive it can bring us and overcome with work, wisdom and seriousness the serious difficulties it brings us. If so many times it has been in the past, it must be in the present. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u108	Mr Rui Rio, the Bureau shall register a Member to make a request for clarification. To this end, Mr. João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u109	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Dr. Rui Rio chose to come to the debate of the State of the Nation with a speech with mere political considerations about political and governmental currents. The PSD left ideas and alternative proposals at home. It was not possible to subtract any idea or alternative proposal from your speech. [[PSD protests.]] Dr. Rui Rio spoke of the New Bank. In this regard it is appropriate to refresh the memory of the PSD : who sold the New Bank was Banco de Portugal, who was hired by Banco de Portugal to sell the New Bank was Dr. Sérgio Monteiro, who was a member of a PSD / CDS government. The former PSD/CDS government promised to sell the New Bank in 2015 and failed to sell the New Bank for mere political and electoral tactics, because they approached the legislative elections and would be forced to tell the country the truth if they had to sell the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Not to mention, Mr Rui Rio, the responsibilities of the PSD/CDS government in the worst resolution of BES, where they should have remained a set of toxic assets that were transferred to the New Bank because you were obliged to tell the truth to the country and were only a few days away or weeks away from the legislative elections. [[PSD protests.]] They did not sell the New Bank in 2015 and this was another heavy inheritance to the Government of the Socialist Party, which had to support the Banco de Portugal decision on the sale of the New Bank. Who sold the New Bank was the Banco de Portugal ; who is in the New Bank representing the State is the Resolution Fund ; who runs the Resolution Fund, as you know, is the Banco de Portugal, Banco de Portugal, which in the last five years has been chaired by Dr. Carlos Costa, who has been re-elected with the support and a decision of a PSD / CDS Government. It is not worth taking responsibility for this debate now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] It was also surprising that we did not hear Dr. Rui Rio, President of the PSD, recognize the merits of the government at four crucial moments for our country. The starting point in the fight against this public health crisis, the pandemic, was a healthy public account, a budgetary surplus, a sustainable government debt, an unemployment rate of about 6 % and the economy growing above 2 % in three consecutive years above the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] This was what enabled the National Health Service to be strengthened by the State Budget for 2020 at about 900 million euros, which allowed the National Health Service to be up to date and respond to what was the greatest challenge in its history. It was also the good public finances that enabled the government to launch all the exceptional and temporary measures that the country, families, businesses and the economy needed to mitigate the impact of this crisis. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The third moment, Mr Rui Rio, which you were unable to recognize as the merit of the Government was the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, with a set of fundamental measures to support companies, families and the economy, such as complementing the family allowance, such as the stabilization supplement for workers who received through the layoff, such as, among many other measures, the third phase of PARES, the Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... not to mention the strengthening of the National Health Service and the EUR 400 million for distance digital education in the area of education. Now, at a fourth decisive moment, with great merit from the Government and Mr Prime Minister, it was the negotiation in the European Council that brought a great financial envelope to Portugal, which is a great contribution to economic growth, employment and the fight against inequalities. You, of course, forgot and didn't talk! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u110	You have the floor to answer, Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u111	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia was probably focused on the questions he was going to ask me and he did not hear the final part of my speech when he said that I did not say what the country needed. For that is precisely what the country needed, that I have finished my speech and I am not going to repeat what I have just said. [[PSD applause.]] Regarding the New Bank, if Mr. Prime Minister said recently that the PSD was fossilized, then the PS is that it is fossilized in the New Bank, because it does not discuss what we have at this time and is always talking about the past and the past and about how responsibility is from the past. Look, Mr President, what I said there in the gallery has nothing to do with the past—it comes from the past, but it is a recent past: it has to do with sales, with losses that the New Bank is having and which are very, very doubtful. For the government to transfer the money it has transferred, it would have to assess whether these losses are real or fictitious, to give more value to those who should not give more value, with the Portuguese State and the taxpayer paying what they should not pay. This caution is required for the Government in the New Bank's file. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u112	With regard to healthy public accounts, let's see one thing: what the government has achieved was not reducing public debt as you are always saying. It was to reduce the relationship between public debt and product because public debt with this government did not fall even a euro. He went up every year! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] What came down was the relationship, which is an account of dividing, between the public debt and the Product, which now, unfortunately, will rise again. Now, you deserve a welcome here for the courage that you have to come to talk about the National Health Service and say that it has been strengthened and that it has done this and more! If there are failures in this governance of the PS is exactly in the National Health Service, with the waiting times to get worse and with people with other pathologies that are not the COVID-19 to be treated. [[PSD applause.]] So, really, at least you have courage — and can — to come and say what you have to say. [[PSD applause.]] So what he advised, whether to the honourable Member or to the speech of the Government itself, and today, the Prime Minister was as follows: more humanity and more realism in the face of the situation that Portugal is experiencing. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u113	Mr José Luís Carneiro of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u114	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members: It could not be more timely to see that, at one of the most important moments of the parliamentary debate, we have not heard of the main opposition party, at the time when the strategy for the future of the country is being discussed, an idea, a proposal, a contribution to improving this strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The greater party of opposition stopped throwing stones at the apples of the trees of others. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're done and we're going to do it. As a national community, we managed to control the effects of the pandemic. The National Health Service, particularly its professionals, showed the ability to respond to the most critical and demanding times. We know, however, that there are still very difficult times to win in the coming months. It is therefore essential to strengthen investment in its human and material resources, already envisaged in the Supplementary Budget and responsible behaviour of all citizens. Despite all the difficulties during this time of pandemic and with the mobilization of scientists and public health professionals, the authorities, local and regional, of Parliament, the Government and the Presidency of the Republic, it was possible to create a framework in which the responsible assessment and the weighted decision gave rise to a certain lucid hope that took the place of fear. It is worth remembering that we have come to protect businesses, jobs, families and institutions. Layoff, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, protection of supply chains and marketing of essential goods and services in the peak of the pandemic, moratoriums on tax and tax benefits, strengthening social benefits, protection of families in their right to housing and protection of decent living conditions are examples of a genuine race against time and against the effects of this pandemic on the living conditions of all. Social, economic and political cooperation in response to the emergency period also chaired the development of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and the adoption of the Supplementary Budget. The government heard and almost all the opposition could give — and in some circumstances — its contributions. And criticism and parliamentary scrutiny did not cease to take place, even during the state of emergency, calamity and alertness. Even in times of exception, the quality of our democratic options and our mature citizenship was evident. After ensuring the emergency response, we have prepared and we are implementing the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we are now entering the public discussion on the Strategic Vision for the Portugal 2020 - 2030 Economic Recovery Plan. All political parties and all economic and social forces can participate, and have the duty to do so, and contribute to improving these options. The modernization of the state, education, training and qualification of people, the training of institutions, workers and businesses, the enhancement of culture and resources of the territory, public investment in social functions and infrastructures capable of ensuring the geopolitical and geoeconomic integration of Portugal in the world are strategic challenges that call us all. No citizen or institution can be indifferent to the future of your country. We transform ideas and words into proposals and projects that are feasible for the future of Portugal. The main lines of the Portuguese recovery plan, now under public discussion, coincide with the essential axes of the European recovery proposal. And it's not by chance, it's because we did the housework. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without the conditions for their financing, this strategic vision for the country, coincidentally, in many of its contours, with our aspirations and desires for the future, could not go beyond a plan of mere intentions. The European Union, following the decisions of the Eurogroup – already very significant – has taken a historic decision this week by approving the economic and social recovery plan that will ensure the resources for the implementation of this strategy. With this victory of Europe and Portugal — which is also due to our Prime Minister's capacity for dialogue, consultation and intervention — it is possible to carry out a real development plan, with people at the centre of priorities and without anyone remaining behind. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're done and we're going to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u115	Mr President, having no requests for clarification, you have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u116	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The crisis we are experiencing is not a symmetrical crisis, as none of it is. Those who are most vulnerable, more precarious, with worse housing conditions, are at greater risk, all risks, health, poverty, exclusion. It is also not a transient crisis. We don't know yet when and if we have a vaccine, there are new records of infections in the world every day and it's almost certain that we'll have new vacancies in the next few months. In the face of the enormous difficulty we are experiencing, there are mistakes that we cannot make and lessons that we must respect. The first mistake is to wait for the crisis to pass or trust others — the European Union, of course — to make the necessary decisions. The recession is not a possibility, it is a certainty, and it will be as deep as later to act in the protection of labour incomes, in support of those who have lost everything, in defense of the country's productive capacity. The second mistake is to ignore the scale of the crisis and not to prepare the country for a long period of pandemic. Planning is essential: to ensure the hiring of teaching and non-teaching staff so that the school can reopen and function in the most difficult times, in security; to strengthen the National Health Service, which will have months of combined response to COVID-19 and everything else; to implement the national mental health program; to increase the supply of public transport and to redeploy those who live in unhealthy conditions. Finally, the third mistake, which is also a temptation: announcing false solutions or victories and hiding difficulties. The European Agreement is not a salvation or even a conquest. It is still, to a large extent, an unknown one, with some advances, some retreats and many impasses and long times. A crisis like we have never seen will only be answered if there is clarity about the problems we face and courage to find solutions. We will be able to answer if we know how to learn lessons from what we are already living, and there are three fundamental lessons. Public services are the first line of response to the pandemic, the National Health Service, of course. We saw how private hospitals closed at the first moment of the pandemic and only returned to negotiate with the State payments for the recovery of the planned activity. Abutres, working with the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u118	And if anyone still believes that having private in the SNS may be the answer, I recall the disappointment of a doctor at the Hospital de Braga, in full succession: « If this was still a PPP, instead of treating patients we were discussing terms of contractual treatment ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u120	SNS, therefore, public, universal, free, capable, with more professionals and recognized careers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But it is not only the SNS that is in this first line, it is also the public school and social security. It will be necessary to strengthen, modernize, train, and extend the public response where it does not exist today and it is also essential: in support of the elderly, disabled persons and other dependent people, with public home support service, personal assistance and dignified residential solutions; and a public housing park, capable of responding to the most vulnerable but also of regulating the lease market, so that the right to housing is effective. A second lesson, and quoting the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa: « This crisis has highlighted the deep fractures of our society and the price we pay for the excessive deregulation of everything we used to call the labour market». These were the statements by Antonio Costa at the beginning of this month at the Global Summit of the International Labour Organization on the impact of Covid-19 on the World of Labour. And the Prime Minister went further and even stated that «...to leave unprotected in times of prosperity is to leave absolutely unprotected in times of crisis». Perhaps now António Costa acknowledges the mistake you made at the beginning of this legislation by refusing an agreement with the Left Block to recover rights from work. After all, the Left Block has never put unacceptable preconditions, but has called for an indispensable way of defending those who work. We can't wait anymore! [[Congratulations from BE.]] There were 100,000 new unemployed, only in the first month of the pandemic. Profitable companies, such as Galp, fired precarious workers; institutions that live from the State Budget, such as the House of Music or Serralves, left the workers to false green receipts without anything; workers from school canteens, daycare centers, were left without wages, even when employers continued to charge monthly fees to users. Every day complaints come from Layoff companies who are in full labor and abuse the State and the workers. At the Pingo Doce, which never stopped profiting during the crisis, he witnessed blackmailing workers to impose the hour bank. Today, the Government here has completely rejected the Left Block's proposal to temporarily prohibit layoffs in profit companies. The Prime Minister even said that it would destroy employment. But if so, why did the government prohibit layoffs in companies that are in layoffs? It is that if those with support cannot say good-bye, those with profit at a time of crisis will not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u121	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u122	We have to keep the job, that's the imperative. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The crisis is not the same for all, and if no one doubts the need for economic support, the requirement must be maximum. Without new rules of defense of those who work, support for the economy may well become another rescue to an elite, leaving the wage and employment of those who live in their jobs unprotected. Third lesson: the structural weakness of our economy, the precariousness of work, debt and external dependence. We need strengthened infrastructure, we need reindustrialization, we need to respond to the climate crisis. Is this time the railroad? It was the first proposal of the Block in the previous legislature and we lost as much time as we don't have. And if it's the railway and the weather, why insist on Montijo airport? Oh, my God! Is this time the register and the land bank? Is it now food sovereignty and a forest strategy or will we return to abandonment? Is it now science and culture or are we going to repeat empty proclamations, in sectors where precariousness is the absolute rule? Perhaps one of the greatest structural weaknesses in our country is even the constant proclamation of priorities without the courage for the steps they take. Plans for funding without public control of strategic sectors, without democratic scrutiny of the application of the means, without legislation that protects populations and those who work will never be able to correct weaknesses. External dependence, the absolute power of multinationals over our strategic sectors, the lack of transparency of political decision-making in relation to large economic groups, the economy based on precariousness and low wages, are our structural weaknesses. This is where it is urgent to act and the Bloc will not stand aside from this debate and this requirement. Immediately, there is a State budget for 2021 to prepare and that must respond to the crisis. It is necessary to support the redundancies and other victims of the crisis, to respond to those who have lost their jobs, their wages and their income, and their social and economic crises. And this support — combining robust social support with mechanisms to save jobs and wages — must be accompanied by greater supervision of subsidies to businesses, avoiding distortions. We need to protect employment and wages. Facilitation of dismissal and precariousness have created a situation of enormous deprotection for those who work. There is an urgent need to ban layoffs in companies with profits, to take measures to protect employment and labour rights, to adapt labour standards to the needs of combating unemployment and to strengthen essential public services, from the National Health Service to public school, without forgetting social equipment to support dependent people. And even before a new budget, it is necessary to finalize the contract of the new 8426 health professionals — doctors, nurses and technicians — already provided for in the State budget for 2020. After all, creating confidence conditions for new solutions requires the commitments already made to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u123	Mrs Marina Gonçalves, PS, signed up to request clarification from Mrs Catarina Martins. To that end, you have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mrs Catarina Martins, in this first debate of the State of the Nation, we evaluated a society very different from that we had at the beginning of the legislature. We evaluate a united and resilient society that actually lives moments of collective challenge. We agree with the Left Block, when it says that, to this collective challenge, it responds with more and better state, with more social status. Indeed, we agree with the objectives which are intended to be achieved as a whole by the speech of the honourable Member. That is why, in the last five years, we have always worked together to achieve these objectives. We disagree, yes, with regard to the tools found to achieve these objectives. sometimes, we find the necessary balance, and I think that is the effort that must be made in this balance sheet of the nation state, to find answers for the future. Today, not only in health, education and social protection, we also face challenges in two sectors of which you spoke: that of work and that of housing, which are important challenges. It is true that, in the housing sector, the late construction of a housing strategy, after years of disinvestment, makes it difficult to carry it out immediately. The growth of the speculative market, which is inaccessible to most of the population, also makes it difficult to build a comprehensive strategy for the development of leases at affordable prices. In the labour market this also happens and the Prime Minister has also pointed out — in other forums, not in this debate — that job insecurity is a reality and therefore answers need to be found. With regard to mechanisms to safeguard the fight against precariousness and, on the one hand, employment and its stability in the medium term, it is important to find instruments that effectively enable these two aspects, without jeopardizing more employment and not only better employment. Madam Member, what you were asked to do, taking into account the joint objectives and the necessary balance between the proposals put forward and those that need to be presented, was another joint reflection on which the path we can go in the future in terms of housing and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u125	Mrs Catarina Martins, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. I apologize for the shortness of the answer but we still want to question the Minister of Health. Mrs Deputy, we are always available to negotiate solutions. We are not available to hear proclamations as hundreds of thousands of workers continue to be fired every day without the support they need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u127	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u128	Mr President, Prime Minister : We hold this debate on the state of the nation at a time of increased concern about the present and future of our collective life. We know that the many problems that the country faces are not today. For a long time, the country's structural weaknesses, which decades of right-wing policy, have been identified against national interests, have systematically worsened. What we need to discuss is therefore the state of a country that maintains its chronic structural deficits, in the head of which is a serious productive deficit, that a continuous process of deindustrialization and abandonment of other productive activities has been worsening. These deficits remain in other areas, such as energy, scientific and technological, demographic, infrastructure and public services. We need to debate the state of a country that has become increasingly dependent, with levels of creeping economic growth. We need to debate the state of a country with serious social problems, where precarious work, unemployment, persistent and unfair distribution of wealth. All this reality, which weakened and weakened Portugal, was now exposed by the epidemic outbreak, with all its cruelty. In the second half of the decade, some problems have been mitigated in terms of employment, economic growth and improvement of living conditions, with the policy of recovery and acquisition of rights, wages and remuneration, for which the CFP has made a decisive contribution to its insistent intervention and proposal. They have helped themselves and have addressed more immediate problems, but national problems have not been solved, because the policy which is required to respond to them has been lost, and still remains adjourned today. What was much wrong today is worse and the government's political permit, which imposed a layoff with a substantial cut of wages, has left room for thousands of redundancies. By the way, allow me a parenthesis. I heard the young Member of the Socialist Party, Marina Gonçalves, just worried about employment, the difficulties of the younger. So, being fair to your position, you have to have another spear. For example, tell your party to revoke that 180-day experimental period law, which led to thousands of dismissals, particularly young people, that were in that situation. [[PCP, BE, and PEV applause.]] As I was saying, the government's policy permit has also left room for arbitrary labour demands, aggravated by the fact that the generality of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have been delivered to their lot. The measures taken, in addition to pursuing the wrong direction, have fallen short of what is needed to deal with the serious economic situation in which the country is, marked today by the prospect of the deep economic recession, the threat of the closure of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, by the shooting of unemployment and by the significant reduction of purchasing power by workers and populations. Short-term and long-term measures and options which are not conditional on the interests of economic and financial groups and on the European Union's taxation. I am talking about solutions to revitalize the economy, to ensure wages and jobs, to boost public investment, to extend social support to those who have been deprived of everything and, even, to provide the National Health Service with the necessary training to respond to immediate health needs and to strengthen the level of response that is required to guarantee health care in general. Portugal needs to learn from the reality that the epidemic has revealed, but neither the PS nor its government, nor the PSD and CDS are interested in taking such teachings. They do not want to acknowledge, for example, the importance of the role of workers and the centrality of work in society, which needs to be valued and dignified; the role of public services and, in particular, the National Health Service; the appreciation of the internal market, now more evident when the country is conditioned by decisions that do not control; the importance of national production and the need of the country does not ignore the objective of ensuring its food sovereignty and having strategic sectors in its hands. They do not want to draw lessons from the wrong choices that constitute the subordination of budgetary policy to the European Union's taxes and the problems resulting from the absence of monetary and budgetary sovereignty. They are lessons that point to the need to ensure an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy. They are lessons that give the CFP reason when it comes to the liberation of the country of constraints and constraints of the euro, of debt and of restrictive budgetary policies, which portray investment, which prevent the country from acquiring the equipment it lacks, building infrastructure and ensuring essential public services. They are lessons that give reason to the CFP when it draws attention to the need to ensure the priority of the defence and development of national productive sectors, including the reindustrialization of the country, modernizing and diversifying, taking advantage of and taking advantage of their own resources to produce here what required us to buy out. They are lessons that give the CFP reason when it comes to proposals aimed at recovering strategic sectors for the country that should never have been privatized. What the current situation requires us to recognize is that, if the alternative policies proposed by the CFP had been considered, the country would be better prepared to face adversity, to grow and to develop. The class options of the PS Government and the action of the PSD, the CDS and its successors, at the service of the class interests of the great capital, not only do they not respond to national problems, as will tend to aggravate the consequences inherent to the current situation. As in the past, in other circumstances, once again, some and others are waiting for a miraculous solution to come from outside. What has now been approved at the European Council is insufficient and must be paid by the country. We will not let ourselves be dazzled by numbers, but, while not misleading that Portugal will, at the same time, have an appreciable amount, what is required is that it be used for the service of a sovereign development strategy, rejecting external taxation and conditionalism. Mr President, S. Prime Minister, this is the time to make choices. Portugal needs to put in place a genuine country development programme, guided by national interest and not dictated by the agendas of the great powers of the European Union and by the interests of multinationals. A real recovery and development program requires holding the appropriate instruments in the hands of the country and taking up a proper agenda that looks at the country's problems without constraints or constraints. We must combat the consequences of the epidemic and respond to the problems that are ahead to guarantee Portugal in the future. Yes, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the solutions cannot be those of yesterday. The country needs new solutions, based on an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u129	Having no requests for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : I take advantage of you, Prime Minister, to congratulate you, because I haven't seen you in a few months. Therefore, I thank you for your availability and your presence here, spending a morning with us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u131	Where have you been? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u132	...noting, with this, probably, to go to work, as Dr. Rui Rio would say, that, moreover, I also use to greet. Interesting questions, it was a good 15-year debate. Not even the last one! That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that the assessment of the state of the Nation at this time in July 2020 is inseparable, for good and for evil, the way the country has faced and is facing the pandemic, that is, the way it has confined and how it has failed. If confinement allowed to flatten the curve and resistance of the National Health Service, saving lives, this was mainly due to the exemplary form of how the Portuguese reacted civicly. The people were wiser than those who ruled us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u133	Although confinement could have been decided a week earlier and although the purchase of protective material was decided with more than one month's delay, as we said at the time, in the face of the indignant reaction of some opinion published in the official organs of the regime, much was indeed lacking in hospitals, homes and health professionals, contrary to what Mr. Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u134	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u135	If the confinement and decision of the state of emergency, which we supported, was a correct decision, there is now no need to assess the consequences of everything left behind or was postponed and the necessary strengthening of the National Health Service. However, this soon gave rise to those who are the two greatest specialties of the Socialist Party and its government: the ideological rhetoric, socialist and statisticist, of the "owners of the state"; and the propaganda without brakes or limits. The first one is easily rebutable. Just compare and realize that countries with right-central governments, who made decisions earlier than we, had better or even better results than ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u137	The second, that of propaganda, had its highest expression in the thesis advocated by Mr. Prime Minister of the alleged Portuguese miracle, marked by the endless ceremony of presentation of the Champions in Belém, as being the prize to health professionals. This thesis of portuguese exemplarity was denied or even broken by the precipitate form as defining was done. For example, we have gone to the wrong example, we have defined without the cautions that are required, without the massive execution of tests, without the famous application, without control in public transport or without diversification at times and, above all, without geographical differentiation, when the situation in Lisbon was much worse than in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u139	It was a corruption of wrong signs, always with the State figures, in the morning, on the way to a beach or, at night, a concert, passing the exaggerated idea that everything had ended and that it had been all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u141	All this under the spirit of collaboration of the major opposition party and the silence of the management partners, since they were allowed to make their manifestations, allowing them what was forbidden to the rest of the Portuguese, as we saw in 1. May.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u143	As we have seen in this debate, today the country has the hope of European funds, but they must quickly reach those who produce and create jobs, adding innovation. This money must be injected into the economy with speedy and clear and transparent criteria, without comparable, without repeating mistakes from the past, without statistical or merely assistanceist views, but by creating businesses and jobs. But if the state of the nation is worrying, the state of democracy is much worse. The State of the Nation is also marked by the state of slow and late justice, as a well-known phrase states: « late justice is nothing more than institutionalised injustice». The government is not in line with the necessary reforms. In a country where security forces are forgotten or even systematically attacked, this no longer concerns the government or the major parties. In a country where isolation, forgetfulness, the abandonment of so many of our elderly people were exposed, the priority of this Parliament is euthanasia. in a country where the press is today the shadow of a true fifth power, it lives financially suffocated, in an absolute state subsidy, with all the foreseeable consequences of this fact in such pandemic unanimity. This is how, between millionaire transfers in football or television, the coup took place in parliamentaryism yesterday, in this plenary. This is how a majority of PS and PSD have made a fatal blow to the role of Parliament as we know it and as it has been practiced since 2007. From the moment to the next, without even understanding the reason of the major opposition party for collaboration, the Assembly of the Republic, in a central bloc vote, ended with the fifteen-year debates, the main instrument of government supervision; limited the participation of the opposition parties, escalating them into divisions; also limited the rights of citizens, making it much harder to arrive at their petitions to the plenary or to have their right of initiative; and attacked independent candidates to local authorities, reinforcing the weight of the two major parties. Never as it has made so much sense today—and it is ironic that I would remind you — Dr. Paulo Rangel’s famous speech when he spoke of “democratic asphyxiation”.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u145	That's what we have today. It is as if, from one moment to another, if he had shot down on the country a gigantic monolith, crushing the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and the parliamentary rights of government supervision. And if the monolith seems to have buried the management, it is not true that it will be integrated or subject to this new system of central and rock mass, despite the blink of an eye that we have seen today. Of course, at the top or at the top of the monolith, Mr. Prime Minister is increasingly alone and isolated, who, looking down or to the side, sees only collaborators or allies, either in the main party of the opposition, or even in the head of the state. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] This pandemic unanimity approaches the previous thought, but never effectively realized, nor in the absolute majority of the 1980s, « Prime Minister’s presidentialism », in the famous expression of Adriano Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u147	It is precisely when the role of the Prime Minister is increasingly dominant and more central, reducing ministers to assistants, that Parliament decides to stop listening. It is precisely when billions of European funds are announced that the central bloc has decided to reduce European debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u149	It is precisely when Parliament and Parliament are more plural than the 'centre' decided to reduce the rights of all parties and, curiously, with the argument to combat populism. But what was done to him was before a huge favor! Mrs. Members, when institutional debate is reduced here, the advantage is for those who speak the most loudly, for those who shout or for those who systematically use external forms and the street to launch these same screams. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is the most left-wing, literally, way of ending the political year. It remains to be emphasized that, regardless of the size of the monolith, there are those who, on the right and without complex, refuse populism, continue to believe in a different country, with more rigor and scrutiny, with more freedom of initiative, more companies and less bureaucracy, with more merit, with justice, but also with social justice for all Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u151	Mr. Prime Minister, until a few months from now, when you have availability. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u152	Having no requests for clarification, I now give the floor, for an intervention, to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: The country's economic and social recovery cannot leave behind the necessary reduction in the regional and social gap which has so far persisted. We must cease to be the only European country with more miles of motorway than miles of railway lines, a country where having its own home or an affordable lease are an authentic utopia, a country where there is a huge risk of reaching the second half of the decade without social security reserves that guarantee the payment of pensions or where an economic model is still based on precarious contracts and in which, in the average wages and wages of public service, it takes time to turn the page of austerity. We must stop being a country where more than 2 million people continue to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion, in which the State budget covers only 7% of the dog financing needs and which then fails to help animals, a country where the bank is approached instead of addressing people, among so many examples that we could give. More: at a time when a turning point is required for these and other structural problems in the country to be solved, what is done is to reduce the debate, it is the House of Democracy. We hope that some of the proposals contained in the Costa e Silva plan will come out of the paper, particularly with regard to rail and combating climate change, as well as in the field of health, there will be fundamental structural investments for the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the government, above all, we hope that no one will be left behind, especially the most vulnerable, to whom we should, essentially, be more than answers, much action and investment. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u154	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u155	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Legislative Session, which is moving towards the end, is marked above all by the health crisis that has settled between us. It is a crisis that quickly became, too, a social and economic crisis, with poverty gaining worrying proportions, as attested to the requests for help from families; with thousands of people losing their jobs and so many others who continue to see their income substantially reduced from the layoff situation to which, against their will, they have been referred; and with thousands and thousands of micro and small businesses living in a real situation of anxiety and uncertainty, where the poor support lasts. In view of this scenario, over the past few months, the Government has sought to provide answers, some of which were accompanied by Green Pelos, but it was the Supplementary Budget that presented itself as a more comprehensive instrument for responding to the crisis. A budget, however, which insists on maintaining the cut-off of income to workers in layoffs, while not excluding the large economic groups from the extension of the deadline to report tax losses, which refuses to create a treasury fund for small businesses, but which does not prevent the distribution of dividends among shareholders of large companies, and which is unable to value environmental components, such as recycling, as a contribution to the dynamisation of the economy and the creation of jobs. But this crisis has also shown us, or confirmed, some facts that need to be taken into account in our future. It has, of course, demonstrated the importance of the social state and, in particular, the absolutely essential role of the National Health Service and its professionals in combating this pandemic. Therefore, for the future, it is important to have this lesson well present, so that the SNS does not continue to suffer from the underfinancing to which it has been referred for decades and to which its professionals are properly valued. This crisis has also confirmed something that the Greens have been doing for a long time and constantly demanding: it is absolutely imperative that we come to our production, to national production. We need to work seriously to regain our food sovereignty, to bet on small agriculture and to get the Family Agriculture Statute out of the way, to dynamize proximity circuits and local markets, as a way to boost the flow of products. Betting in our production will be a wager, with reflections on our economy, in terms of our food sovereignty, in the fight against regional asymmetries and the abandonment of the rural world and even in terms of the prevention of forest fires, because where there are people, there are fewer fires. But there will only be people in the rural world if conditions are created so that producers can produce and sell their products at fair prices. And we need to support micro and small businesses, the backbone of our economy. In addition, these support will have to be extended far beyond the crisis, because these companies are heavily dependent on domestic demand and, as we know, it will take time to reach the desired levels, given the loss of income and the purchasing power of the generality of families. But this pandemic should also lead us to question how we produce and how we consume this growth model, whose policies are based on the exploitation of natural resources in a frighteningly unsustainable way, as if there were not tomorrow. As for the rest, the Nation does not get rid of old evils and modern viruses. We outline the picture: when banks damage, the State continues to call the taxpayers to pay and, when they give profit, the bankers divide the cake; the New Bank continues to be a source of public resources; the multinationals choose locations for the construction of important infrastructures, such as the Montijo airport; the protected areas are transformed into plastic deposits, as is the case in the Southwest Alentejano Natural Park; the exploitation of natural resources, such as lithium, is involved in mist processes and without regard to the environmental impacts and the quality of life of the populations; the intensive production of olives or almonds continues to flood our landscape, especially the Alentejano Railway; the removal of asbesto in schools is, say the autoarchies, an ambush and the silence of Mr. Prime Minister on the question that the Greens today have made us even more concerned; the commitment to the railway has continued to serve as a promise and limited transport to the Lisbon-based companies only by means of transport for safety. Finally, a novelty, a modern virus: the government is thinking of changing a law with the sole purpose of passing over the opinions of the municipal chambers that do not agree with the government, in order to do the will to multinational Vinci.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u156	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. What we hope is for the country to defuse from the health point of view, but also from the point of view of the rights of those who work, the value of wages, the environmental values and respect for local power decisions, whether they like the government or not. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u158	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u159	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and other government members, Mr. Members : We live our darkest hour. As long as we live our darkest hour, the government will spend more EUR 73, EUR 2 million this year and yet, with the largest government in history, it will have to hire an external consultant to solve these problems. Ironia is tremendous of a destiny that has placed the Socialist Party in one of the greatest challenges and in which, in months, it will be one of the greatest tragedies in its history! in a historical moment of unemployment, at a time when many families cannot afford the books that children need, at a time when many health professionals are at the limit of their despair and what is offered to them is a Champions and a football end, what is the government strategy? It is to go hand-in-hand for Europe, in the same misery of all time, that which we have already known, of an engineer who is no longer in Parliament but still remains a shadow. Then we have ministers who speak to us in a Portuguese miracle. It is a great miracle, which after all did not open up to us the United Kingdom air corridors, as I promised, as we knew minutes ago. It's a miracle just to sell out... or inside, because out there nobody already believes that this miracle happened. For a year, it was also a state of the Nation marked by, always, poor April...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u160	That's Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u161	...and by the stigma of persistent racism which obscures Portuguese society with names of pompous footballers and which only serves to keep the same as always paying and the same as always receiving without wanting to do anything at all. This is the scenario of the nation state we have today! But it is also the nation that promised to fight corruption and last month we knew that Portugal is the European country that least meets the recommendations to fight corruption. What a great deal they've given us! After all, the so propagated country that was going to fight corruption turned back and Ricardo Salgado and José Socrates laughed at our face, laughed at our work and laughed at a country that no longer knows how to do justice. The truth is, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President, that justice still has to be our battle horse. The Portuguese will not even understand whether they will continue to live with impunity and the same will always work to pay for a system that no longer serves them. Today, the system still laughs at us and thinks it will defeat us, but sooner or later— sooner than later! — the system will be destroyed and will give rise to a new Republic, because that is what we need in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u162	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u163	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: There is no doubt that the PS is interested in having a submissive nation because it thus prevents many mobs. For the PS, it is indeed a massade that there are people who do not comply and do not resign to this state of the Nation. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is a shock when there are people who do not align in unanimity around the strategy of fighting the pandemic, the same one that led us directly from the Portuguese miracle to the blacklist of several countries, still this morning confirmed. It is uncomfortable when there are people who do not comply with the government's fears of using private health providers to recover more than 3 million consultations and more than 150 000 surgeries postponed in the SNS, putting the health and life of the Portuguese at risk. It's a mess when there are people, who call themselves fanatics, who don't resign themselves to the decision to bury EUR 1200 million in the TAP when we pay record taxes and when money is missing for everything else. It is, as Eça would say, "a drought" when there are people who still do not think it is normal for the Minister of Finance to pass directly to the Banco de Portugal and ask if this is not a conflict of interest, what is a conflict of interest? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is a shock when there are people who continue to think that ending the fifteen-year debates, monitoring the hate speech without scrutiny, maintaining the tax privileges of the parties, eliminating the accountability measures of the Budget Framework Act and creating dependence on social communication are bad signs for democratic health in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u164	Mr. Deputies, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: to these socialists and their fellow roadmen who have already been opposed, it must be said, loud and sound, that the Liberal Initiative will do everything so that these people will not continue to be submitted and that the number of these people will grow. We will be in this Parliament the voice of those Portuguese who resist, the resilience of the most experienced, the energy of the younger, the desire to return from those who emigrated. They will be them and they will again put this great nation in good condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u166	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u167	Even in the use of the available time of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mr Luís Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u168	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: Allow me to greet the Government, in the person of the Prime Minister, for his victorious commitment to obtaining in Brussels this week a historic agreement for Europe, for Portugal... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and, if I may afford the regionalist excess, for the Algarve, which obtains a specific and additional programme of EUR 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is unanimously the opinion of all international financial institutions that the economic line of tourism and the regions it depends on suffer a sudden, violent and unexpected breakdown of its economic activity. In the Algarve, where tourism is not just an economic sector, but before — and unfortunately, I will say! — the whole economy, the effects of the pandemic are already felt, and much, in the evolution of unemployment. For this reason, the Government's decision to allocate to the Algarve an additional and specific programme of EUR 300 million for which the next multiannual financial framework of the Algarve will be allocated is of extraordinary relevance. We are talking about the duplication of Community support available for the Algarve and this is central to this region, but also, if I may, for the country. In the last three years, Portugal has always grown above the European average. How proud I am! In the same period, the Algarve has always grown above the country average and therefore it is of all national interest that the Algarve quickly recovers for Portugal to reconverge with Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to reduce the weight of tourism in the economy of the Algarve. It will always be central—yes! — but it cannot be the whole economy. Therefore, and I believe that Mr Prime Minister and the Government are accompanying me, these EUR 300 million must be used well and cannot be put where they have always been in these years of European funds. We must have a regional strategy to converge the government, the municipalities, the Academy, the companies so that these 300 million euros are effectively used in diversifying the economic base of the region, in productive infrastructure and equipment and in strengthening the quality of health care in the Algarve. Mr. Prime Minister, as a last note, I would like to thank you. We were together with the President of the Portimão Chamber, when the hypothesis of Formula 1 came to Portugal. Today, this announcement took place and these super events are very important for the notoriety of the Country and the Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u169	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Pinheiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u170	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. Between 1990 and 2018, Europe reduced 23 % of greenhouse gas emissions while the economy continued to grow. In 2030, we should be more ambitious and reduce emissions by 55 %. The challenge is to reduce emissions, but also to empower the country in absolutely strategic areas. Parliament has an obligation to introduce political instruments to implement these reductions not only in the legislative field but also in the behavioural awareness of each Portuguese. Therefore, it is essential to adjust the price of carbon, but also that this covers the whole economy. thus, we should encourage behavioural development of consumers and businesses, from the outset in energy. The rapid decrease in technological costs should serve to increase the percentage of renewable energy in Portugal, with the main objective of reducing the price of the energy bill of Portuguese families... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and thus fighting a problem that can be absolutely serious, that of energy poverty. Energy storage will be a decisive factor to place Portugal in the leadership of technological development in this area. It can be hydrogen, it can be lithium and batteries, it can be thermosolars. We will be aware of how the demonstrations of results of any such business can, or not, harm the Government, the State and the Portuguese. Industry has a very important role in our economy. We must view this sector's energy transition as an opportunity leveraged by European resources. It will take 25 years — a generation — to transform the industry, but we will have to decide now so that we can be acting in the next decade. An essential tool is the circular economy, giving priority to the reduction and reuse of materials, clearly passing recycling to the third plane. Buildings and their construction are an absolutely priority area, which currently requires a significant amount of energy, natural and energy resources that we should optimize. On the other hand, transport is responsible for one quarter of greenhouse gas emissions. These values continue to increase and, in order to achieve carbonic neutrality, transport will have to reflect its effects on the environment and on health. We must continue to promote a fair, healthy and environmentally friendly food system, ensuring the quality and safety of food products, and agricultural areas should make a strong contribution to increasing the area in organic agriculture. To this end, it is essential to protect ecosystems and to pay for their services, to look at forests and oceans as natural carbon basins, essential for climate change mitigation and adaptation. All of this will require funding and ecological investment around 1, 5 % of the European Union's annual budget. Green taxation, reconciling growth with sustainable development, will be absolutely central. For there to be no ecological whitening, we must introduce a taxonomy for the classification of activities, clarifying what is, or not, sustainable, and using an open, accessible data system combined with digital infrastructures where artificial intelligence and 5G can quickly introduce fundamental decisions in real time. Each of these challenges must correspond to Parliament's ambition to draw up and adopt a legislative instrument that contributes decisively to the decarbonisation of the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u171	After the intervention of the political parties, I give the floor to Ms. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, for an intervention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Dear members of the Government : When we came to Parliament at the beginning of this year to present our proposal for a State Budget Act, we argued that health was the highest budgetary priority for 2020. On the one hand, the State budget for 2020 had the greatest ever increase in the initial budget allocation of the National Health Service's operating budget, with a reinforcement of EUR 941 million. On the other hand, the State budget did not only affect more resources to the SNS, it was the instrument of an economic policy focused on people and on three vertices, namely the qualification of access, motivation of health professionals and investment in the SNS network. The following months and the health crisis of the COVID-19 showed that this was the right priority, so in the Supplementary Budget, we strengthened the allocation of the National Health Service in more than 500 million euros. In fact, in less than half a year, the pandemic has clearly demonstrated the impact that health has on our lives and on our societies: at school, at work, in the economy, in transport, in housing. It is still too early, too early, to know when we will come out of this crisis, from which we will only be released when we find an effective vaccine or treatment. But the Europeans have decided that they want to face this crisis with determination and open a new chapter also in the field of health. The European Union's response in terms of funds contains solutions for emergency and recovery. And we, as a country and as a people, will only succeed if we have a clear strategic vision for this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to be prepared to respond to the persistence or increase of COVID-19 and at the same time to all other health needs and the appearance of the seasonal influenza virus after summer. Exactly because we know that the ability of public health teams is crucial to identify and isolate cases and contacts early, I want to tell you that we are working with the Medical Order to double the number of vacancies for medical training specializing in exceptional public health and immediately. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's one more step. We have already strengthened the SNS effectiveness in 20 000 since 2015 alone. Today there are more than 140 000 SNS effectives. And during the exceptional response period to the pandemic, we also increased the labour force in the SNS in 3995. With the 1156 experts we expect, in the very short term, to contract, we will have largely met the one that is the reference framework for contracts for this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we also know that the ability to test is essential for the rapid identification of cases. We are working on the duplication of the response capacity of the laboratories of the National Health Service and the National Health Institute Doctor Ricardo Jorge (INSA ) and we believe that it can reach only 22 000 tests per day until the end of the year. And I remind you that Portugal has already carried out more than 1, 5 million tests and that it is the seventh European country in number of tests by population density. We also know that intensive care capacity is critical for a possible second VOCID-19 wave. We are working to converge with the European average of 11, 5 intensive care beds per 100 000 inhabitants and will complete the vertical programme of 60 million euros of ventilator acquisition with infrastructures of more than 26 million euros and because we know that the needs of Portuguese are more than the fight against COVID-19, we now have the possibility of using, by the end of the year, the exceptional plan of hiring additional activity of first hospital consultations and surgeries with direct and increased pay to health professionals. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the SNS will also recover this activity, as it recovered from the surgical strike and as it recovered in half the pending consultations for more than a year at the end of 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't hide it won't be easy. Other health systems well reveal the extent of the challenge. In the United Kingdom, for example, urgent care for heart attacks fell to half between March 20 and April 20. In France, the activity of family doctors will have fallen to 44% and that of hospitals to 70%. In Australia, psychiatric admissions fell by 39 %. So let us have a good sense of what we face. But we won't do that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we will not forget the bets we have in our hands: the maintenance of the bet on mental health and on the 10 Community teams that will still be on the ground in this second half. And, above all, we will not forget the vision that emerges from the three main lessons of this pandemic to the area of health. Health needs medicines and medical devices and betting in our industry is essential to ensure autonomy in raw materials and essential goods for the provision of care. Health is multifactorial and the responses to the disease involve interventions of proximity and intersectoral, which pass through local health systems (LSS), by strengthening primary health care and by strengthening continued care. Health lives in a digital society and health services have to expand the use of teletries, teleconsultation, telemonitoring and interoperability to improve people's access and lives. It is that, in fact, people are the center of the new Health Base Law and they will continue to be the center of our work—it is because of them that we do not tire, that we do not lower our arms and that is why we continue the struggle. This is the guarantee I leave you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u173	Mrs. Minister, six Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u174	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u175	All right, Mrs. Minister. To that end, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u176	Mr President, Minister of Health, there was an incomprehensible decision on the part of the Council of Ministers this month and, as we are still in time for the government to "correct the shooting", I bring the subject to this discussion. to passengers coming from the United States of America, Brazil, of the PALOP (African countries of official Portuguese language) requires a negative test to the COVID-19 made in the last 72 hours before the trip. What happens from there is that you don't understand. Most passengers are arriving in Portugal without the test done and there is a fine that is paid by the airlines to ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ). It is said that TAP pays many of these fines to the National Civil Aviation Authority. Then this money goes from ANAC to Vinci Airports, the private company that manages airports. That is, the money we injected into the company that was nationalized, TAP, goes from TAP to a private company that, only last year, had a gross revenue of US$ 50 billion. So, Minister, the question I put to you is this: the money relating to a fine that is created in the context of a health crisis should not be diverted to the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u177	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u178	It is that we need to give answers at the level of the National Health Service. The Minister said in May that we needed more than 400 intensive care beds and that they would be available in the next winter. Well, there's only one more month left for September and the beds haven't been opened yet. It is that, in the way this is assembled, instead of using this money for intensive care beds in our hospitals, we will invest in solar beds or yachts from Vinci Airport administrators somewhere in Saint Tropez or in Monaco. We need this funding to be able to pre-purchase vaccines for COVID-19. What has the Portuguese Government already done on this subject? Only the United Kingdom has made a financial signal for 90 million vaccine doses for COVID-19. If the vaccines are proven to be effective and safe, how many vaccines can the Minister ensure that the Portuguese population will have access? And the strengthening of the public health system that, in the Supplementary Budget, was only entitled to €700,000? How are we going to be able to do this next winter, when three months after defining have not even managed to control the centre of the epidemic of the COVID-19 here in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon? Not to mention the question of consultations and surgeries, Mrs. Minister. It is that the resolution of the question of consultations and surgeries is being made by ministerial decision, pushing towards the end of the year and the beginning of the next all those who had markings for today, when they should all be solved simultaneously. It's in your hands, Mrs. Minister, do it. I conclude by asking you this: do you not think that the taxes being paid by TAP should be invested in the National Health Service to ensure people's health? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u179	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u180	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the members of the government and saying the following: the NAP has already talked about the heroes and the heroes of health today, but we would like to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Health to also talk about other heroes and heroines in our country, particularly those who are part of the educational communities, who quickly adapted to this context, despite the lack of guidance and support from the Minister of Education. Taking advantage of the presence of Ms.Minister of Health, as she said, we would like to ask you some very direct questions about the face-to-face return to classes. The Minister of Education has already spoken to all of his various plans A, B, and C, but with all the scholarship used he did not guarantee families, students, teachers, educational agents who were doing everything to ensure that schools were safe contexts—in fact, he is not, but we hope the Ministry of Health is! The political vision for education in Portugal is that success is achieved with five weeks of lessons dedicated to recovery. Now, we don't need to extend the school year, we need to review curricula. Mrs. Minister of Health, children of 1. the cycle will not have to use mask, even if there is no guarantee of recommended social distance. In parallel, our children need to be accompanied to deal emotionally with all this context we live in. Therefore, we must not fail to ask you, Minister, whether you will allow the attendance of 28 students to be maintained, knowing that distance in the classroom is not possible. How does the Minister explain that, in schools, the recommendation of the Directorate-General for Health is to ensure the social distance where possible, when in companies, shows and even in the Assembly of the Republic, compliance with the recommended distance is required? What guidelines are these that compromise everyone's safety in our schools? We must return to schools, of course, but with security and confidence. We cannot allow ourselves to do what Mr Education Minister wants to do, which is 'to kick the ball forward and hope that the goal will be left alone'. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u181	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u182	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Health, after an act of PSD contribution to the privatization of ANA-Aeroports of Portugal, I would like to speak to you about the National Health Service. In full pandemic, the role, the centrality of the National Health Service became unquestionable. Indeed, it was the public and universal SNS that guaranteed the health of the population, access to health care, it is the one that guarantees it day by day and is the only one capable of ensuring access to health in the most difficult times, as we are proving at this time. The SNS is indeed one of the greatest achievements in our country and owes much to its professionals. Today, the population has widespread confidence in the National Health Service, and has this confidence because health professionals offer the greatest competence and the greatest dedication, with millions of extraordinary hours worked, even accepting to postpone their holidays to continue giving, day by day, the response that the population needs. But the truth is that the National Health Service needs more resources, because it will continue to have to respond to the COVID, just as it will have to recover the activity that has been suspended, as it will have to recover the planned activity and how it has to strengthen areas in which it is weak, such as mental health or complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. But more resources basically mean more health professionals. And that is what I would like to ask the Minister because it is necessary that all the contracts that have been made on a temporary basis in order to respond to the COVID-19 become final contracts—that is the issue. That is, will all those contracts be effective, will they become effective? The boards of directors, all of them, say that they need all those workers, those and many others, but the government has not committed itself to this permanent hiring of workers. That commitment is needed. In addition, the Left Block proposed, for example, in the Supplementary Budget for 2020, that the 8400 professionals that were already planned were all hired this year. The Socialist Party has led this proposal, but everyone says—and it is more than known—that they are all necessary, and yet they are not enough. Therefore, in order to strengthen the National Health Service, to do what the Minister says often that it takes resources. These resources are essentially professional and the commitment is to permanently hire these professionals or then the government does not go beyond the intentions and proclamations. We need this response as the National Health Service needs these effective contracts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u183	Mr Hortense Martins, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor, too, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u184	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Minister for Health, Mrs and Mrs Members, the state of the nation in the area of health has been marked by challenges that have tested our SNS, citizens and even sovereign bodies, in particular the Government and Parliament. The Portuguese continue to have confidence in the SNS and the provided response, which is increasingly valued. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we have to continue to invest in this SNS to strengthen it so that it will provide the best health care to the Portuguese. We increasingly want a modern, sustainable and inclusive SNS to provide the best health care. It is worth it, Mrs Minister, that I also value, on behalf of the Socialist Party, what has been done: the response given by the SNS and professionals, which are fundamental and that we must continue to value; access to health care and the decrease in inequalities for this access; the dispensation of moderate rates, a measure to improve this access; the change in the provisional number of residents to thus also diminish inequality in access and caressing those who live in Portugal; the strengthening of financial resources through the various budgets, either the State Budget for 2021 or the Supplementary Budget. I also want to value the hiring of workers and the acquisition of thousands of masks, millions of gloves and all that has been necessary to do, including the creation of a national strategic reserve, the strengthening of hospital stocks and the expansion of laboratory diagnostic capacity — today we have 94 laboratories — and, of course, the Health Line itself, which has been criticised at the beginning, but which has given a capable and timely response. All this shows, Mrs. Minister, that we in the country have the capacity to face the great challenges that arise. And as Mr Prime Minister said in his speech, we are on the verge of a new challenge with the winter season, and we need to know what the government is preparing to deal with the possible coincidence of influenza outbreak with the COVID-19 pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u185	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now speaks for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms. Minister of Health, due to the political options of the right, translated into de-investment, capacity reduction and the devaluation of health professionals, the SNS faces the epidemic of the COVID-19 with limitations and insufficiency. Despite this fact, the SNS, public, universal and general, proved to be the fundamental and only instrument that is in a position to ensure care for all users without discrimination on the basis of economic conditions. Very bad users were if there were no SNS and if we were hostages of private interests. The answer, without any doubt, would not have been the one. SNS was and is important in the treatment of patients with VOCID and is also important for the recovery of health care, consultations, surgeries, examinations, which should have been done in recent months and were not. To this end, it is essential to strengthen the SNS, equip it with the capacity to provide care to which users are entitled, with quality. More workers, doctors, nurses, technicians, operational assistants must be hired. In her speech, the Minister referred to the contract, I believe that already under the COVID, more than 3900 workers. But, Madam Minister, what was planned for contracting in the 2020 budget falls short of the needs because when the budget was prepared we still had this fight against COVID-19. It is therefore important to go further so that, in fact, it is the SNS to give the necessary answer. But it is also necessary to give stability to health professionals and to integrate all those who were hired in the context of the epidemic. The solution does not go there with the renewal of contracts every four months, the solution, in fact, is to integrate these professionals into staff maps, because they are necessary and needed today and they are needed in the future. [[PCP applause.]] It is necessary to create occupational health services in health establishments where they do not yet exist. It is not enough to address beautiful words to health professionals. In fact, we appreciate and acknowledge their role and work, but their careers need to be valued, respect and strengthen their rights and income. The number of acute beds, intensive care, continuous and palliative care needs to be extended. Equipment must be reinforced, including equipment for the realization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, precisely in this objective of strengthening the capacity of the SNS, as is necessary also to strengthen mental health and public health. We also note that, in her speech, the Minister referred to this extension of specialized medical training to train more public health doctors. It was a proposal that we had already put here, on the table, in the Assembly of the Republic, but it is also necessary to strengthen with other workers, so that teams and public health effectively have a proximity response to communities. But it is also necessary to strengthen the State's intervention with regard to medicine policy and in the State budget a proposal was adopted for the establishment of the national drug laboratory. With the COVID-19, we saw how important is the existence of this response to strengthen and support the National Health Service and ensure users access to the medicine. It is necessary to ensure the conditions to implement the recovery plan of health care in the SNS and not to feed the interests of private groups, such as the PSD, the CDS and its successors, who, instead of defending the public interest, defend the business of the private. Mrs. Minister, concrete measures are needed on the ground. I therefore ask you how the Government intends to recover, by the end of the year, of the pending surgeries, of about 1 million consultations, but also of the consultations and monitoring of users at primary health care level. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] There are health centers and extensions that have not yet resumed their normal activity in monitoring users and this is essential so that there is no degradation of their health status. With regard to the surgeries, Mrs Minister, here is an example of this: that of the Covón Hospital, which is currently being dismantled. The Minister is well aware of this reality and we believe that it is in the SNS that the answer must be. This hospital has five closed operating block rooms, which could very well be reopened and begin to reduce the waiting lists of surgeries on the table. The absence of an effective response from the Government only contributes to the fragility of the SNS and the Minister knows well that an attack campaign is underway on the SNS, seeking to discredit it, directed by reactionary sectors that use the difficulties in access to health with the aim of promoting the interests of private groups, who profit at the expense of the disease business and who at the beginning of the epidemic have closed doors, but who now intend to embark on public resources. The solution is more SNS, with more valences, reinforced with more health professionals, valued at the professional, social and remuneration level. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u187	For one last request for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u188	Mr. President, Ms. Minister, spoke in Australia, Chile, France. For I will bring you back here, Portugal, where you have a problem with your Prime Minister. Your Prime Minister said we would be more effective, but we have time to wait for pornographic, with Portuguese waiting for more than a year and a half for a consultation. Your Prime Minister, who is also mine, unfortunately, said that we would have a country in which everyone would have a family doctor, but there are over 600,000 Portuguese without a family doctor. But more: its DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), which is unfortunately also my DGS, said that there are 49 000 infected, but when we are going to see it as a council, only 44 000 appear. It is once again a Portuguese miracle, which can have 49 000 infected, but only 44 000 distributed by the municipalities! Where will the others be? On Mars? on another planet? Hidden in some office? Oh, my God! We don't know. More, Mrs. Minister of Health today, at the end of the legislative session, it was a good day for you to finally tell us where the 1151 fans we bought in China are. Where are they? Are you in your office? Are they here? Are they somewhere? No one knows where they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u189	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u190	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs Minister, I think today I would do all the Members a favor if I told us, at least, where are the rays of the fans that we paid millions and we don't know where they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u191	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I shall begin by answering the questions put by Mr Baptista Leite on tests. The tests performed to those who do not swallow them at the origin, according to the defined rule, are not spent on the National Health Service, are spent on their own. In fact, a good reading of the document shows that. On the issue of ANA and its rules, we did not privatize it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On the question of whether to use any revenue from these tests to invest in intensive care beds, I must say that we do not need to use it, because EUR 60 million has already been allocated to fans in intensive care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u193	We don't know where they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u194	And we have already foreseen in the Budget Supplement another 26 million for what are the necessary infrastructures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for vaccines, Portugal is with all 27 countries in a joint negotiation conducted by the European Commission. currently, we are working with eight pharmaceutical companies, some of them in a more advanced phase of research, already in phase 3. We have had weekly meetings, but it is still early to give more information on this subject, as you will understand. What we know is that individualism on this subject as with others will never lead us anywhere, and therefore we are with the European Union in this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the questions raised by Mrs Bebiana Cunha, on the classes and the social distance, what we have said and have explained in detail is that it should be maintained whenever possible, because we all well know that there are barrier methods of another kind, such as those of being behind each other, those that have to do with the organization of the rooms, those that predict acrylics, which some countries already use, masks. There is therefore a set of other solutions, so the distance in meters is not the only instrument we have. Mr Moisés Ferreira asked me about human resources, as, moreover, Mrs Paula Santos also did, and about contracts. I would like to stress what we write in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme when we say that, whenever possible — and that depends on the interests of the workers themselves, on the will of the institutions and, of course, on the need — stability in employment will be given to these contracts. Therefore, yes, these people will continue in the SNS if they are the most indicated to continue in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question raised about health professionals and the reference framework to which we have been linked, we have a clear perception that the greatest strength of the National Health Service is its professionals and, therefore, at this time, the contracts we have made were, above all, under the exceptional regime, but we will continue to deepen this path with the usual mechanisms, in particular, the recruitment contests of doctors just got in hand. Also in the field of public health, of course, the fact that we are now working with the Order of Doctors to increase our ability to have more recent public health specialists — I remember that Portugal has only 263 public health specialists and that the average age is 59 years old — the fact that we are going this way and we are going to be deeper does not mean that we do not need more nurses specialists in community health and in other areas, operational assistants and technicians of other valences. That is what I wanted to mention when I spoke about local health systems and the importance of networked and multifaceted work. Finally, I would like to give a note on the Coupon Hospital. As far as I know, what has happened is an intense use of its operational capacity, particularly in outpatient surgery, including attendance activity numbers that compare very well with those of the University of Coimbra Hospital. But of all this we will be better informed next Wednesday, as it is on that date that the conclusion of the program contracts with the hospitals of the National Health Service that are in a position to sign. This depends on having an understanding and agreement on the additional activity that we intend to perform and that responds as best possible to the assistance needs of Portuguese and Portuguese. Finally, Mr André Ventura, in fact, I am quite happy with my Director-General of Health and my Prime Minister... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and I only have two things to say to you: please read the footnotes. I know they're small, but we have ophthalmology consultations!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u195	I see it well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u196	I know they're small, but it's written here why the city council data don't match the national whole: they don't match because this import is done at a posteriori. So we are here to work, to be transparent, to talk about the difficulties and, above all, to continue to struggle to overcome them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u197	The fans? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u198	To make an intervention before the end of the debate, Mr Filipe Pacheco, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not possible to speak of the current state of the nation without praising the response of the entire Public Administration in recent months, from now on, thanks to all public officials, but also because it was possible to take advantage of the infrastructure of digital public services and the dynamics of innovation that was once again cultured in the Public Administration and in the Country. Portugal would be much worse today if it had faced this crisis with the response capacity that the right left us in 2015. It would not only be less state we would have, it would also be worse state. That is why the Socialist Party has repeated several times: for us, the real reform of the state is to modernize it. And so even in the middle of the pandemic, the government did not stop and presented Simplex 2020 - 2021, ensuring that for the year it will be possible, for example, the allocation of the hourly pension, automatically, or the holding of distance health consultations and more 155 measures that will simplify the lives of people and businesses and increase the efficiency of the Public Administration. That is why in terms of digital transition the current state of the Nation is that Portugal is part of the D9, the group of the nine most developed nations in the world in terms of digital governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, if there is anything that the pandemic has brought us was the acceleration of the digital transition that the world has already lived and has given more emphasis to something that the government has already presented, even before the COVID-19, which is the current Action Plan for Digital Transition, which has, for example, measures such as the digitalization program for schools. But for the PS, the modernization of society cannot be done without social awareness and therefore we have tabled in this House a proposal for the creation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age and a draft resolution for the creation of a social tariff for access to Internet services. These are, for the Socialist Party, guarantees of political priorities so that no one will be left behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u200	There is still one last request for intervention, also from the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mrs. Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u201	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate we reaffirm that the social state is the most effective response to this crisis. This crisis has also exposed the structural inequalities that we are fighting and can turn around brutally. We must constantly monitor, now more than ever, European values against nationalism and populism, which shamefully use this crisis to try to impose their authoritarian, sexist, homophobic and xenophobic agendas. at economic and employment level, the crisis showed the fragile situation of women, the first to lose their jobs, the first to lose their wages, who lived dramatic situations of domestic violence, at home, confined to their children. The Government has done well in strengthening measures to protect domestic violence, to support family and employment, to stimulate the green economy in the CFP. Mr. Prime Minister, in this transition to a new normality, equality must be, as it has always been in this government, a central bet. Attracting young women to digital sectors and strongly bet on the universality of digital school and bet on the care economy is urgent. These are bets that can change the world and that can better prepare us to face new crises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the conclusion of the debate, which translates into an intervention by a member of the Government, in this case by the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first year of this legislation was very different than we all anticipated in this House and in the country. When we finally adopted the State Budget for 2020, 30 days before the first case of COVID-19 was diagnosed in Portugal, we lived at a unique moment in our country this century: unemployment was at the lowest value of the last 17 years; we lived three years of convergence with the European Union; we obtained the first positive budget balance of our democracy; and we had the lowest ever levels of poverty, inequality, or early school dropout. Some will say that it is worth the good time that the country was living before the pandemic crisis, but the truth is that without the achievements we have made in the past four years, we would be facing this crisis in much worse conditions. Without the budgetary margin gained, without the recovery of employment and income of families, without the strengthening of more than 20 000 health professionals or without the reinforcement we have made in social protection, the crisis we are now facing would be even harder and more violent. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In recent years—and strangely today—we have heard the systematic attack on the virtues and capabilities of the State and public services. A few weeks before the first cases of COVID-19 in Portugal we heard about the chaos and collapse of the SNS, the failure of the state and some even said that only with a new model of health protection, more assertive, of course, is in the private sector if it would respond to the needs of our country. What happened over the past few months was the opposite of what was predicting the right: public services in Portugal were at the height of an unprecedented crisis. The SNS responded quickly, efficiently and with quality to the challenges of a pandemic that has severely reached some of the most developed countries in the world. Portugal has achieved a test capacity that compares with the countries that test most, the capacity of response of intensive care has not been exhausted and has been progressively developed and increased, the response of primary health care, public health and distance health have adapted to an unprecedented search. The pandemic crisis shook the strongest and oldest public health services and we must say, with humility and responsibility for what comes here, but also with pride, that few did better than the Portuguese SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The public school responded with the implementation, in an emergency situation, of a distance education system and a study platform at home. These answers enabled all children and young people to finish their school year, complete their study cycles and complete the process of access to higher education. Some years of schooling resumed, at the end of the school year, the present classes and we already presented the conditions in which, in September, the return will be made to the present classes. We know that it is in school that inequalities are combated and that nothing replaces the school in this role. For this reason, schools are preparing to receive, safely, children and young people and also to prepare to deal with the occurrence of cases and the increase in the disease that we all know can happen. Social security has also responded since the first hour, defining exceptional conditions for prophylactic isolation, supporting families in closing schools, exceptionally extending social benefits and ensuring the social protection of those who did not have it, but also protecting the employment of more than 850,000 workers from more than 109 000 companies who, one day to the other, were closed or had their activity reduced due to our confinement. in the same way, the security forces and civil protection responded to an unpublished state of emergency; as the network responded to the support for victims of domestic violence, as the State answered by considering regularized the situation of all immigrants with pending regularization requests, thus ensuring access to public services and social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This crisis, unpublished in the dimension and radical transformation in the lives of all, did not come with instruction manual. It was necessary to learn while deciding, it was necessary to correct and improve with the information collected in the meantime. Services and professionals had to respond to what we all knew, in real time, with data often complex and even seemingly contradictory. Not everything was free of mistakes—it is never! — but we can be proud of the country's response capacity, of Portuguese and essential services, such as health, security forces, workers in social institutions, the transport, distribution and agriculture sector. We all have to be grateful. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the same clarity and the same truth as we have spoken to the Portuguese since the first hour, I would like, at this moment of balance, to reiterate that the crisis caused by this pandemic has not ended and will be a very severe crisis. It is not past, present and future. Until there is an effective vaccine or treatment, we will have to learn to live with the virus, adapt our lives to new rules and move forward with the recovery of our economy. We manage this crisis with unprecedented transparency. We heard health professionals, scientists and experts. We have decided in close cooperation with Parliament and the President of the Republic. We shared information, built commitments and never turned our backs on responsibility. We know, many months ago, that this is perhaps the greatest challenge in the life of many of us. We never hid it, we never masked it, we never created illusions. Until yesterday, 1705 Portuguese lost their lives and many lost family and friends. Many workers have been confined for months and companies have had to suspend their activity, many workers have lost their jobs; patients have not performed their surgeries; children and young people have lost hours of teaching and learning and living with other children; many elderly have spent months without being able to receive a visit from their children or grandchildren. Many Portuguese and Portuguese postponed their lives, their life plans, their dreams, changed their routines. Few crises have had such a profound and violent effect on the daily life of so many Portuguese, so many women and so many men all over the world. We know that the pandemic crisis has been, and it will be very difficult in the future, but we are prepared, the government and the country, to respond differently to this crisis and it is about that response to the crisis that I want to talk about at this moment of balance. After an emergency response, focusing on the health crisis, social emergency response and job creation, the Government presented the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and the Supplementary Budget. This plan includes fundamental support for the maintenance of employment and the progressive resumption of economic activity; it includes support for people's income, especially those most affected by the economic consequences of the pandemic, the poorest, who were already most vulnerable; it includes a set of support for businesses, so that they can resist and relaunch their activity; it includes a plan to recover the activity of the National Health Service. With the historic agreement adopted at the European Council at the beginning of this week, the conditions are created for the response to the crisis to be supported by unprecedented instruments and resources. Unpublished in its form, unpublished in its dimension and unpublished also in the responsibility that brings us all. The Government cannot guarantee — no one can guarantee — that we will not live in difficult times, times when the employment and income of families are affected, times when exports fall, times when some companies do not resist. What we can guarantee — what we guarantee today — is that we will respond to the crisis with policies that counter the crisis rather than aggravate it,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that we will come out of the crisis with policies that fight poverty and inequality; with policies that strengthen public services, not that they don't interfere with or suffocate them; with policies that ensure public investment in essential infrastructures that are planned and that do not promote, as we have seen today, another decade of suspension and delays; with policies that promote reindustrialization and the creation of value and not a fundamental race in rights and wages, as in the past. We have presented a vision and we know what we want for the country at the end of this crisis. We have the resources to make the necessary investments, the investments that will allow us to bet on the qualification of Portuguese and make our economy more competitive and innovative, more environmentally sustainable and more prepared for a digitalised future. There is a path of recovery to make, a path that will not last only a year and will not be made only with a budget. The fight against pandemic continues in hospitals, health centers, throughout the SNS, but also in the defense of the most fragile, in the surveillance of the processes of infection, in the rules of social distance, and continues also in our contribution to the response of science and research to the pandemic crisis. It is in this framework of struggle, which remains, that millions of Portuguese are already recovering our economy in a fight of persistence, imagination, solidarity and hope. This has always been how Portugal stood up in the face of the greatest crises in our history. We count on everyone and the Portuguese know well that they count on the government and the Republic. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u204	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate of the State of the Nation, but the session is not yet closed. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members for their presence. Members of the Government, who are released from now on. I wish you a good holiday, as much as possible, but to be excellent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u205	Until any day!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u206	Until Christmas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u207	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to give, so you have the floor, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Law Proposal No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special regime applicable to the expropriation and establishment of administrative services which falls to 1. the Commission, and Bills Nos 477 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Remuneration supplements of pregnant women, puerpera and lactating infants who are part of the security forces, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 478 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reinforces the remuneration regime of wind power plants ( Revoking Decree-Law No 35 / 2013 of 28 February 2013 ), which falls to 11. the Commission. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is worth noting that Mrs Marta Freitas ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of Madeira, and Mr Paulo Porto ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle from outside Europe, were present at this session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-24.u209	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, before closing this plenary meeting, which is the last of 1. the Legislative Session of the XIV Legislation, I would like to address the Chamber three brief notes. First of all, I would like to thank all the Members and all the Members for their contribution. Members in recent months, which has been decisive in adapting the Assembly of the Republic to a reality which has so far been only in the field of fiction and bad fiction. Thanks to the commitment of all and all, it was possible to ensure, in a pandemic framework, the full functioning of the Assembly of the Republic as a sovereign body, during which not only its holders did not resign from their duties, as they kept a permanent monitoring of the evolution of the pandemic situation and careful monitoring of the action of the Government, in full respect and compliance with the Constitution. I must recall that for the first time in its history, the Assembly of the Republic has been called upon to authorize the declaration of the state of emergency and to carry out its assessment, which it has done for three times. I do not hesitate to say that the Assembly of the Republic has fulfilled its mission, and it will certainly continue to do so in the future, because the challenge of the pandemic is still present, and that the Portuguese and Portuguese must be proud of their Parliament. Secondly, I would like to commend the committed and competent way in which the services of the Assembly of the Republic responded to this reality, ensuring that Members and Members could exercise their mandate without assembly restrictions, an effort which I could see from many of the officials of the Assembly of the Republic, some of whom have never stopped coming to Parliament,... [[General applause.]] ... allowing others, especially those included in risk groups, to be able to watch or be in telework and thus also contribute so that Parliament does not stop, so that democracy does not remain suspended, even in a state of emergency. I thank everyone in the person of the Secretary-General of the Assembly of the Republic, but I cannot but thank the Parliamentary Support Directorate ( Plenary Support Division and Commission Support Division ), the Information Technology Directorate and the Communications Office ( Canal Parliament ). Everyone is worthy of mine and, I believe, of your recognition. Finally, and no less important, a very special reference and a thank-you to all the members of the Bureau — Mrs Andriessen and others. Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen. Secretaries of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen. Vice-Presidents of the Bureau, because of the way in which I was helped in the performance of the functions in this extraordinary legislative session we live. To all, and also to the professionals of the media, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, I cannot wish to wish everyone a good holiday, inasmuch as we are still expecting heavy days of committee meetings, I hope that after the end of these work they will enjoy the well-deserved rest. Without prejudice to the full exercise of all its powers during the interruption of parliamentary work, the Assembly of the Republic will resume its normal activity at the beginning of September. Until then, health and good disposition. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 1 minute.]]
