ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority, very good day to all. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report some file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day to all and to all. I take an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the mandate of Mr José Apolinário, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, elected by the electoral circle of Faro : « The resignation of Mr José Apolinário fulfils the legal requirements, being replaced by Francisco José Pereira de Oliveira, from 28 October 2020, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will also take note of another opinion from the same Commission. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion refers to the suspension of the mandate of Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group, elected by the electoral circle of Aveiro. It follows: « The suspension of PSD Member Bruno Coimbra meets the legal requirements and is replaced by Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz from November 4, 2020 until December 3, 2020, including. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda includes the continuation of the joint debate, in general, of Bill Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. As the government is not yet present, we will wait a few minutes. It is inscribed for the use of the word, first of all, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, John Leon. There are also several Members of the House and several Members of the House. Members of various banks have already signed up to intervene. As soon as the government arrives, we will immediately initiate the work. [[Pause.]] Mr Prime Minister and other members of the government have arrived. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of 2020, Portugal had just passed a period of four years of strong economic growth and convergence with the European Union, of great employment growth, of increased income available to Portuguese people, where the first budgetary surplus of democracy was reached, which showed that the results were not only positive, but solid and sustainable. It was a path of economic recovery in the country, which contributed to the improvement of the lives of Portuguese and to the international prestige of Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the beginning of this year, the emergence of COVID-19 suddenly launched the world in a public health crisis and in an unprecedented economic and social crisis. It is expected that after a growth of 2, 2 % in 2019, the Portuguese economy will have about 8, 5 % this year, a reduction in similar economic activity, which is expected for Europe. At the same time, an increase in unemployment rate of 6, 5 % is anticipated in 2019 to 8, 7 % this year. This fall in economic activity constitutes a threat to Portuguese income, in particular those who, because of the pandemic, have lost their jobs or had a sharp fall in activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this context, the four major immediate challenges facing the country are: facing the pandemic, recovering the economy, protecting employment and protecting Portuguese income. The State budget for 2021 is therefore built around these four main priorities. The first priority is to help the country cope with the pandemic, through strengthening the SNS (National Health Service) and other public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State budget for 2021 provides for a huge increase in the SNS budget from EUR 1200 million to 2020. To combat the pandemic and strengthen investment, the EO ( State budget) includes a value close to EUR 500 million of the new European funds, of which EUR 220 million are for tests, vaccines and individual protective equipment financed by the REACH-EU ( Cohesion Recovery Assistance and the Territories of Europe ). For 2021, a very substantial strengthening of the number of professionals is envisaged, with the hiring of over 4200 professionals in net terms for SNS and 260 workers for INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ). It also includes a large increase in funds for investment in the health system, providing for investment in equipment and in the expansion of the primary health care network, the expansion of the National Network of Continued Care, the construction of new hospitals and the allocation of a risk allowance for health professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Health is therefore one of the main priorities of this Budget. This EO also has as its priority strengthening in the area of education. The pandemic has accentuated the needs of resources and professionals in our schools. The EO for 2021 therefore responds with an ambitious school digitisation programme worth more than EUR 400 million, not only to improve learning, but also to ensure the continuity of learning in the context of the pandemic. It also responds with the hiring of more than 3,000 operational assistants to our schools, alongside the reinforcement of teachers, to help the recovery of learning, which has become pressing due to the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the second major priority of this State budget is the recovery of the Portuguese economy. on the fiscal side, three main measures are envisaged which contribute to the dynamisation of domestic demand and the economy and which in 2021 place more EUR 550 million in the economy and in the pockets of Portuguese: the reduction of retentions in the source of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) in EUR 200 million; the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of electricity in EUR 150 million; the return of VAT, amounting to EUR 200 million, supported by consumers in the restoration, housing and culture, three of the sectors most affected by the pandemic. At fiscal level, for companies, the elimination of the rise in autonomous taxes for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and, as an incentive for companies to continue to invest, the Special Tax Credit for Investment of 20 % in IRC (tax on income of collectives) is also envisaged. In order to promote the recovery of the economy and help companies meet the challenges posed by this atypical reality, it is also essential to ensure the financing of companies. It is therefore important to underline the extension of bank credit moratoriums by September 2021 and the promotion of credit lines for companies with State guarantees up to EUR 6 billion. Public investment is another key and decisive economic policy tool at this stage for the recovery of the economy. The State budget for 2021 provides for a strong public investment growth of around 23 % compared to 2020, which represents an increase of more than EUR 1000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, protection and job creation are the third of the main priorities of this State budget for 2021. In addition to a set of very ambitious measures to boost demand and economic activity, we have specific measures aimed at supporting the maintenance and creation of jobs worth almost EUR 1 billion. This set of measures constitutes not only direct support for employment but also strong support for companies and the maintenance of their productive capacity. at this time of uncertainty, I wanted to take advantage of once again to leave a message of confidence to businesses and workers: while the pandemic lasts, the government will continue to support employment, helping companies to bear part of the labour costs in the sectors most affected by the crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We expect by 2021, as a result of the recovery of the economy, to return to the decline in unemployment in recent years with the unemployment rate falling from 8, 7 % to 8, 2 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in response to the crisis, the protection of family income is the fourth major priority of this Budget. Thus, the State budget for 2021 has a very significant set of measures aimed at improving and protecting Portuguese income. These measures are also very important for the recovery of the economy itself and for companies. At the fiscal level, we have the three mentioned measures which, as a whole, result in an increase in the income available to families of EUR 550 million, through the reduction of VAT and retention at the source of the IRS. at the level of wages and pensions, an extraordinary increase of the lowest pensions is made in 10 €, as a result of the commitment with the PCP. In 2021, for the first time in recent years, the increase will be of €10 for all pensions up to 1, 5 IAS (indicating social support) and covers almost 2 million pensioners. It will be the measure with greater impact on the permanent expenditure of the 2021 budget at an annual cost of EUR 279 million. The minimum wage should increase significantly in line with the average increase in previous legislation. In the Public Administration, the wage mass is expected to increase by around EUR 800 million as a result of the development of careers and the recruitment of new professionals. In the context of this crisis, it is essential to commit ourselves to leaving no one behind and to be attentive to those who are most vulnerable, to those who lose their jobs because of the pandemic or to those who have lower unemployment benefits. Therefore, the State budget for 2021 increases the minimum unemployment allowance limit from €438 to €504 for full-time workers,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... creates an extraordinary social benefit with the value of the poverty threshold to which, at this difficult time, the duration of the unemployment allowance has ended or lost employment and has no access to unemployment benefit, or to a worker with a loss of activity. It is expected that this benefit will cover more than 200 000 workers. In addition, the State budget for 2021 extends the freeness of day care up to 2. the step, reduces the inland tolls by 25%, reduces the moderate rates in the National Health Service and introduces a pay supplement of insanity and penosity, among other measures. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the approval of this Budget and with the set of very ambitious policies to respond to the crisis it determines, we anticipate that next year, the Country and the SNS will have the necessary means to deal with the pandemic, we anticipate a robust recovery of the economy in 2021, with a growth of 5, 4 %, we anticipate that the unemployment rate begins in 2021 the reduction trajectory and ensure the protection of the income of workers affected by the crisis and that the income of the Portuguese again improves. As a result of the recovery of the economy and employment, a reduction in the budget deficit is expected from 7, 3 % to 4, 3 % in 2021 and a reduction in public debt from 134 % to 130 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This evolution of public finances will contribute to giving confidence to the Portuguese, demonstrating that the country is on its way and that it follows a safe and sustainable path. The economic and budgetary performance of recent years has allowed Portugal to face an economic crisis for the first time without applying austerity. On the contrary, we are from the European countries that we assume a clearly anti-cyclical economic policy that fights the crisis rather than add crisis to the crisis. We do so with a high sense of responsibility in order to ensure the primary objective of the recovery of the economy and the protection of Portuguese income and, at the same time, to ensure the stability of the financing of the Portuguese economy and the continuation of the reduction of expenditure on public debt interest borne by all Portuguese, a savings in interest which in 2021 is expected to reach an annual value of EUR 2750 million over 2015. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD said this week that it votes against this budget, because — and I quote — 'is a distribution budget to please immediately, forgetting the future'. They believe that it is a budget based on unrealistic assumptions and that it will give in a amending budget. It is a vision opposed to ours, but we must respect it. Consistent with this vision, the PSD said that in the specialty it would be « responsible, otherwise, it was bad for the country ». We understand this PSD behavior. In fact, the country and the Portuguese would not understand that the PSD would now come to propose and approve measures that would increase even more expenditure on a budget that — and I quote — "distributes what it has and what it does not have and leads to a higher budget deficit than what it should". [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be against everything the PSD defended. As the PSD leader said last week, it would not be honest with your vision of this Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent days, the PSD, consistent with itself, has again defended, as it has always done in the past, that austerity is the right way to react to an economic crisis. Consistent with this view, the PSD is against the set of social measures provided for in this Budget: against the increase in the minimum wage, against the policy of increasing income and pensions, against greater social protection for those who lose employment and are being affected by this crisis. In 2015, the left-wing parliamentary majority gathered to show that there was an alternative to this view of austerity. A responsible alternative that put forward the recovery of the economy, the income of Portuguese and the replacement of confidence, an alternative that was a success, recognized not only by Portuguese but also internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic has caused an unprecedented economic and social crisis throughout Europe. This is a period of enormous responsibility for all of us. The interests of Portugal and Portuguese are at the forefront of each party's individual disputes and interests. We can't be afraid to face difficult times. It's not the time to give up. The Portuguese wouldn't understand. As in 2015, we are ready to return to the path of recovery of the economy and the improvement of the lives of Portuguese. We've shown that we've been able to do it! in this difficult moment and anxiety, the Portuguese expect us to have a high sense of responsibility and that we rejoin ourselves to apply the strategy that has been so successful at the exit of the previous crisis. The adoption of this Budget is the first major step in this economic recovery strategy and in refusing the alternative of austerity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u7	Mr Minister, nine were registered. Members to make requests for clarification. In the meantime, the Bureau was informed that the Minister will respond in two groups, one of five and one of four requests for clarification. Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u8	Mr President, Minister for Finance, this budget proposal includes a set of programmatic provisions to frame problems that require effective decision-making and effective solution. The practice has shown that entering objectives into programmatic rules of the State budgets or making these objectives of decision-making or subsequent regulation of the Government will result in postponement or failure to achieve these objectives due to a lack of political will, and the problems remain to be solved. Thus, what we want from the Government, Minister for Finance, is not knowing the justifications for delays and non-compliances ; what we want to know from the Government is concrete commitments to realize by 2020 what was decided by 2020. I begin by talking about the reference that is made in the State Budget to the construction of two hospitals: the hospital of Seixal and the central hospital of Alentejo. Since 2016 these investments have appeared in successive State budgets, and we are at exactly the same point as we were in 2011 when the competition was awarded for the design of the project, and, in relation to the new central hospital of Alentejo, we are even worse, because since March we have a proposal to award the work that has not yet been implemented, and we want to know why. Why is it not possible to achieve what has already been decided, not in 2020, but in 2016 about these hospitals? About the freeness of day care for families covered by 1. the step, the decision taken in the 2020 budget was to be implemented in September. The government told us that it was working to ensure that the decision was even implemented retroactively. What is the point of view of the freeness of day care? On the reform of the workers of the prairies, the commitment that the Government had to approve in 2019 a diploma that would put an end to the penalties of the workers of this special reform scheme, but not only did the government not regulate in 2019, did it in 2020 and, above all, made the effectiveness of that diploma with effect only from 2020, which is an unacceptable injustice situation that did not correspond to the commitment that the Government had. Question : How will the government solve this problem? The social benefit for inclusion was set out in Article 147. that of the Budget the extension of this provision to professionals with protection and relief missions, particularly firefighters when they are victims of accidents at work, but there is nothing on this issue in 2020. Nothing has been done about access to the reform of people with disabilities and the revision of the system of allocation of support products. Nor was the work done with the associations of people with disabilities to carry out what was entered in the State budget. On admission to the security forces and services, the State budget included the hiring of 2500 professionals, hiring that which was not done and, in some services, there is a risk that recruitment reserves will expire with six employed workers and 150 open vacancies. We want to know by 2020 what measures the Government will take to ensure the completion of the recruitment of these 2500 professionals, to ensure that the recruitment reserves are not extinguished and that the balances move to 2021. On investment in public health, strengthening the response in palliative care, strengthening health professionals in local intervention units in additive and dependency behaviors and in community mental health teams, what is the situation with regard to what has been included in the State budget for 2020 and has not yet been implemented? It also strengthens the Lusa budget by EUR 1, EUR 5 million. With regard to the letter of risk of safeguarding and valuing cultural heritage interventions, only a few interventions, which were classified as urgent, but neither the list of urgent interventions was implemented and the re-qualification of the structures by OPART (Artistic Production Agency) continues to be done. Mr Minister, we do not want to know the justifications for delays and non-compliances, we want to know concrete commitments to achieve what was included in the 2020 budget by 2020. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u9	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of State and Finance last week, I asked you a few questions about the funds that are included in the State Budget Report. Since then, the Government has publicly provided a set of data, a set of images that we thank. But they don't deny the numbers I mentioned or reassure us. I asked you last week because, in total, the government did not execute, at least, part of the expenditure that was authorized in the Supplementary Budget. And I cannot accept that the Government's response is that budgetary appropriations are not to be spent. I also asked you why increased staff spending in all health — in all health! — is less than last year by 100 million, even after all announcements of new contracts by the Government. I also asked you how a budget allocation for the SNS is explained below that of the Supplementary Budget. These numbers are unforgettable because they were entered by the Government in the State Budget Report. But last Friday, Mr Minister presented us here with a chart and a table on the number of SNS doctors. I thank the table and also the chart for the information that I bring and reproduce. I think it was this graph that Mr. Minister gave us last week. The speaker showed the chart she mentioned. It is an important chart that we should not forget. This graph that Mr. Minister presented confirms what the Block has said: we do not deny a positive evolution in the number of physicians over time, what we say is that there are fewer doctors today than there was at the beginning of the pandemic and that there are fewer doctors today than there was in January, when we sat down to identify the needs of doctors and professionals in the SNS, and therefore we agreed with the number of more 8400 doctors and health professionals, without knowing a pandemic that would, in the meantime, put so much pressure on the SNS. The chart Mr. Minister presented goes to June. In the meantime, the SNS website published new graphics on the "transparency" menu, which runs until September. I show you the panorama between January 2019 and in this case September 2020. The speaker showed another graph. The medical output continues throughout the year and occurs until September 2020, there are fewer doctors in the SNS than there was in January 2019. According to the SNS website, there are 29 566 doctors in September 2020 and 29 598 doctors in January 2019. However, there was a pandemic, and it is known that the SNS is under enormous pressure. The numbers he presented are the numbers I presented, and they cannot be denied. But our discussion is not about numbers, it is about the SNS situation and it is about solutions to this situation. After this September data, there was a contest for family doctors: they opened 435 vacancies, 284 were filled, remaining to fill. However, a competition took place for 911 speciality vacancies, with people who are currently in the SNS and will move from one function to another, but who do not add net numbers to the SNS. I repeat, we don't discuss the data, but we have a problem: there are no doctors in the SNS when we need them most. The Block sought an agreement to create professional careers and exclusivity in the SNS, to attract and retain doctors and health professionals. The question I would like to ask you, Minister, is how does it explain a budgetary refusal to these proposals that we have made to retain doctors in the SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u11	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Fernando Anastácio, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u12	Mr President, Minister of State and Finance, over the past few weeks the Social Democratic Party has been supporting a narrative based on the idea that in the State budget proposal for 2021, there is no concern about measures for companies. We will all agree that one of the premises most valued by entrepreneurs is fiscal stability. [[PSD laughter.]] Now fiscal stability is a reality in this budget proposal. The taxes will not be increased, the percentages will remain unaltered at all tax rates and there will be no indirect tax updates. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking, then, about investment, another decisive reality for economic growth. in this budget, we have measures such as an extraordinary investment tax credit, which will remain in force in 2021, allowing the collection of up to 20 % of its investment expenditure under IRC up to EUR 5 million. I give another example: a tax incentive will be created for small and medium-sized enterprises for investment in internationalisation actions. All of this combined with the increase in public investment by 23 %, which is an engine, a lever and an effective opportunity for the national economic fabric. But if there is investment, there are also effective tax relief measures. For example, the escalation of autonomous taxation will be eliminated to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises which, usually, had no damage and will have them, by reason of the pandemic. The capital gains of the buildings will also be eliminated when the transfer between the personal property and the assignment to a commercial activity, measured with particular significance in the tourism sector and, in particular, in the local accommodation. in this line, measures are included such as the VATucher programme, which will be a tax expenditure and an effective stimulus to economic activity in sectors such as housing, restoration and culture, through the deduction of VAT paid and reinvestment in this sector. Mr. Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, talking about support for companies in this Budget is also talking about new lines of credit, with public guarantees to support the financing of companies; extending the deadline for bank moratoriums until September 2021 ; it is ensuring, as the Government does, that in 2021 it will be available to maintain support for business activity, to preserve jobs and to safeguard the productive capacity of companies that continue to be affected by the pandemic crisis. Isn't this going to look at companies? [[Don't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u13	Economics, businesses and economic recovery are realities that do not exempt the internal market. The question that needs to be asked is whether incentives to the internal market for the PSD are essential for economic recovery. And if they are, then we do not understand the permanent devaluation that PSD makes of measures such as, for example, the increase in minimum wage, the increase in pensions, the increase in unemployment benefit, the reduction in electricity VAT, the reduction in IRS retention tables, new social support, benefits on social passes, school manuals and day care. All these measures contribute to an effective increase in the income available to families. Mr Minister, the examples and concrete measures I have just mentioned are a reality of this State budget. So the final question I put to you is the following: how does the PSD talk about the lack of preparation or lack of measures for companies? Will this speech adhere to reality? It will no longer be a PSD narrative, because now you can't really tell what it comes to and can't tell what its real program is? Program that is the one who has always used us, that is, the return of austerity revenue, cuts in wages and pensions and the increase in taxes. This is the hidden program of the Social Democratic Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u14	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, Minister of State and Finance, after months of cooking this budget, Mr Minister gave us a budget piece that could once be known as « Limiano budget », but now to the fishing of support, I think we can call it « Strogonoff budget », to have the support of the PCP comrades, but « vegan », to also have the support of the NAP,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...showing the qualities of Master Michelin of Prof. João León. And, Mr. Prime Minister, this special dish that brought us is so special that no one can rightly realize what it contains. This is what the Council of Public Finance or the UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) tells us: lack of transparency, data mixed between new measures and old measures, to make reading difficult, a role of advertisements which, as has already been stated, have not been respected or met in the past— why were they now becoming? — and even worse, even before voting, we already know that there are new measures to be incorporated. So at the end of the afternoon, when we vote, we will no longer vote for a deficit that you presented to us here. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security was the first to acknowledge that the deficit is no longer this, because, precisely in the cooking that is being done, before, even if it is to vote, that will no longer be the dish that has brought us. This proves the irresponsibility of your management throughout this process. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] But, Minister, we could think of something else. We could think: this budget solves the structural problems of the country; this budget will seek to improve the productivity of Portuguese and Portuguese economies; it will seek to improve delays in justice, so it will be faster and respond to citizens; it will improve the quality of public services, so that people have the citizenship card or access to their retirement pension in time and time; it will improve delays in health waiting lists. And the answer is: no! Nothing here is expected to demonstrate that. Next, we can think that this budget is focused on the pandemic and the economic crisis and will therefore respond to immediate problems. And what do we see? He will respond to the economic crisis, when he has nothing to support the companies — taking away the humor that Mr Fernando Anastácio has brought us, saying that "the entrepreneurs must be happy now; we do not raise taxes, that is the best support we can give them! "? to which socialist management has arrived! Is this the perspective of the economy and businesses in Portugal, Minister? Oh, my God! Therefore, the Budget does not support companies. We can therefore believe that this budget supports the health situation, that there are concrete measures to ensure that thousands of consultations that have been abandoned and that surgeries to the NCD patients who have been abandoned are quickly recovered, so that people do not die at the doors of hospitals or at home, waiting to be treated. But no, there's nothing about it! Finally, we can think that this Budget will respond to the pandemic. Nor, because, unfortunately, you had to be the President of the Republic to grab this file, so that there would be an efficient management of the problem. That is why, Minister, what brings us is a hand full of nothing, which has only one objective: to fish votes in line and preserve power. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u16	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u17	Mr President, Minister, the PS was talking here about hidden programmes, and I would like to ask you a question about what I would call "hidden budget", because, in fact, this budget entered here is hidden in fundamental things. So I left him two questions, telegraphic and very simple. The first question is: how much was the budgetary impact of the COVID measures? How much is it planned to spend on the COVID measures in 2020 and how much is expected to be spent on the COVID measures in fact? UTAO and the Council of Public Finance are clear that the Budget does not answer this simple question. Mr Minister, it is not possible to say that Portugal is going through a crisis as we have never known — which is true — to ask for responsibility and then refuse to answer a question as simple, clear and as obvious as this. The second question, which UTAO also says that the Minister and the Ministry of Finance have refused to clarify, is the following: what will be the budgetary impact of the COVID measures this year? I mean, how much are they gonna cost this year? The questions I leave you with are as simple, as clear and as concrete as this. Now, because I see a lot, between the PS, partners, former partners, partners who are no longer known whether or not, very concerned about discussing dichotomy between public and private in many areas, especially in health—when I think the discussion that remains outside, but which is the only one worth having, is whether the patients are being treated or not—I would like to leave you a question about the hospital in Braga. I heard a lot about this hospital, the government ended up with a PPP (public-private partnership) in the hospital in Braga, the Bloco cried out against these people « who are making money with the health of the Portuguese», saying these PPPs were more expensive. I would like to know why in this State budget an additional EUR 2, EUR 8 million is planned to be spent on staff costs at the Braga hospital. After all, if PPPs in health become more expensive, why is it expected that the State will spend more money, not less, to provide exactly the same health care? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u18	To respond to this set of five requests for clarification, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. With regard to the questions put by the PCP Member John Oliveira, whom I thank, I would first like to give a background note. The State budget for 2020 came into force later, in April, exactly when the pandemic occurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u20	And 2020 ends in December!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u21	As I said, well, the year 2020 ends in December, and we still have time to conclude and implement the commitments we made, in particular the commitments we made with the CFP, within the framework of the approval of the State budget for 2020. A very important commitment was the freeness of day care. We expect in November to be able to conclude the agreement with the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) and in this sense to pay the value retroactively to September in order to guarantee the freeness for the aggregates on the first step as well as for the second child of the aggregates on the second step as was foreseen in the State Budget for 2020. On the other hand, it is also important to mention the issue that you raised about the hospital in Évora, which is a matter that the CFP has raised. The government has tried to complete the procurement process and, still this week, even as a result of talks with the CFP, which gives a special priority to the advance of this competition, we have also been able to make an extraordinary reinforcement of funds to follow up on this undertaking. We hope very soon that the contract will go to the Court of Auditors and that the work will begin at the hospital in Évora. I would also like to highlight the very important role of the CFP in drawing attention to this issue, to ensure that this process progresses rapidly. With regard to the issue of hiring professionals for security forces, this is a commitment we have made to the CFP for this budget and we will carry out this year as planned. With regard to mental health teams, the establishment of five teams has already been approved for all regions, as planned in the State budget for 2020. There are other more specific questions to which we can then provide the answers. With regard to the questions raised by the Member of the Left Block, Mariana Mortágua, whom I would also like to thank, I would like to point out — I know you did not — that the State budget for 2021, in relation to the National Health Service, increases EUR 1200 million compared to 2020. I know I didn't want...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u22	The whole budgeting?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u23	The SNS budget. I know you don't like to mention it. [[BE's protests.]] I know that the Left Block refers to the Supplementary Budget and forgets that in the framework of this Budget the strengthening of EUR 500 million has not been made exclusively through transfers from the EO. Of these 500 million, 300 are OE transfers. Therefore, taking into account that they did not have it in your accounts, it is shown that, even with regard to the Supplementary Budget, the SNS budget, on the part of transfers from the EO, also increases by 2021 compared to 2020. The Left Block has been deceived in the accounts, as I see it. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u24	The only way we can get to your calculations is to consider that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it is also important to refer to this level that, in order to deal with the pandemic, such as the Supplementary's funds, we also have in 2021 — the Left Block does not want to recognise it — money from the new European funds, in particular the REACT-EU programme, which are intended to do exactly what the Supplementary has done, i.e. to give funding to the SNS to pay for personal protective equipment, vaccines, tests. These are European extra funds, which the Left Block does not want to consider in its analysis, but which also have to do with the issue of dealing with the pandemic. This is in addition to the additional funds we also have from the new European funds for investments in the SNS, in this case under the PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ). With regard to the question of doctors, I am going back to show the chart which Mrs Deputy also showed recently and which shows to all Portuguese the evolution of the number of doctors over the years—there is an increase of 18% in the number of doctors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I recognize her - as a good economist - until we get to know the academic world - and for the good economist who confesses that it is not serious to do an analysis and compare inter-annual variations. [[BE's protests.]] Any economist knows that he has to make comparisons in terms of counterparts and that it is neither correct nor serious to do just an interannual analysis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we know, the great entry of doctors into the SNS is January and we cannot ban the release of doctors for one year. That's not possible! We do not live in a totalitarian state, where doctors are forbidden to leave for reform! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to staff expenditure, it is very important that you have mentioned this issue. According to 2021, staff expenditure increases more than EUR 300 million compared to 2020, i.e. an increase of more than 6 % rather than accommodates the entire contract. It is more than EUR 300 million in 2021, above the 2020 value. For the strengthening of 4200 professionals together with the 260 INEM, EUR 125 million is needed. The EUR 300 million is more than necessary! No Portuguese considers that the EUR 300 million is not necessary and that more than double the cost necessary for the hiring of new professionals is covered. As you know, staff issues are not just about new professionals, money is also important for the development of careers and, in this context, also presupposes the increase in staff expenditure. Regarding the question posed by the PSD, it is curious that, according to your view, this Budget gives what it has and what it does not have, but then it is necessary to cut the increase of €10 in pensions in order to give even more to businesses. For PSD, it gives what it has and what it does not have, it does not think about the future, but then you cannot increase the minimum wage, protect those who have lost their jobs and who are in difficulty because of the pandemic. I would also like to say that, in addition to the measures we have all mentioned, we also have, under the Recovery and Resilience Programme, more EUR 4 billion for the lost companies. They are very important money, which is not in the State Budget, but which will start to be channelled next year. It will be an important value for companies. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to point out that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u25	You have to thank me too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u26	I would also like to thank the honourable Member for her questions. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a little silence so that the Minister can answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u28	I would like to say to the honourable Member that, this year, we are planning to spend more than EUR 3000 million on social and health protection, but I also invoke the very significant expenditure with layoff, which we had in the second quarter. In relation to all the remaining funds, we also provide for the strengthening of these funds in the area of health and in the other areas. We expect a lower implementation in 2021, compared to 2020, in layoff spending, because we are not assuming a total stopover for three months, as happened in the second quarter of this year. I would like to point out that in order to react to the crisis and to protect Portuguese income, we have more than EUR 1000 million investment, plus EUR 600 million for social support, and we also have a reduction in taxes and tax revenue by EUR 550 million for families. All these measures will be the measures for 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u29	We will move on to the second group of requests for clarification to the Minister for Finance. First of all, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u30	Mr President, Minister for Finance, yesterday the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) liquidity plan arrived. Four months after we have requested here, even through the Committee on Budgets and Finance itself, the TAP's liquidity plan has arrived. There are three leaves: in reality, the first one is an office, the second one has the frames, which do not matter very much, and then there is a sheet with the plan of liquidity of the TAP, which can hardly read. Mr Minister for Finance, I wonder whether he actually read this sheet and whether it was based on this that he decided to bury EUR 1700 million in the TAP. There are, in the State Budget, 300 pages; in the report of the GOP (Grand Options of the Plan) 300 pages; in the report of the State Budget itself, 300 pages... that is, in almost 1000 pages, it was not possible to justify the investment determined in the recovery of the economy and it was not possible to justify the investment to end the waiting lists and with the delays of the SNS, but with a sheet of the TAP liquidity plan it was possible to justify 1700 million buried in this company! The question is: how is it possible, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u31	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the government, first of all, I cannot fail to respond to the PSD. In fact, the PSD comes here to dress up the role of those who stayed at the door of the restaurant. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD most seem to be those people who have difficulty in choosing: they wait and wait and, when they decide, the restaurant has already closed. Mr Duarte Pacheco, let me tell you that if this budget, in the end, when it comes out of the Republic Assembly, has indeed a vegan touch we will be very satisfied, because it does not only do good to health, as it does to the environment and it also knows very well! [[PSD laughter.]] With regard to the discussion of this budget, Mr Minister, we cannot fail to tell you that there is an invoice which has actually been delayed to pay, which has not entered the public accounts and which, sooner or later, is going to knock us at the door. Mr Minister, this bill is precisely that of climate change and will literally knock on the door of the Paço Land, with the rise of the waters due to global warming. The NAP has repeatedly raised several issues related to the decarbonization of the country, which is urgently being done. The world and the European Union themselves already have several international commitments on the targets of decarbonisation, but each country must do its part and Portugal cannot stay behind, especially before the point of non-return. For this reason, for the NAP, the way is clear: taxes, above all, and sacrifices must fall on carbon rather than on wages or businesses. in this sense, for us, the path should be that of the energy transition rather than that of the repetition of past revenues. That is why, Mr Minister, before we ask you a few questions about this budget, there are also issues on which we want to ask questions. Of course, as regards the implementation of the 2020 budget itself, there are subjects that are very important to people's lives, particularly that of the social energy tariff. We would like to understand when this measure is actually going to be implemented. Another example is the licence to restructure the family life of victims of domestic violence. Mr Minister, entering the State budget for 2021, we would like to ask you whether you will continue to tell the middle class that there is no money to relieve the tax burden, namely by reviewing the steps of the IRS, while continuing to bore out activities and polluting industries such as oil products tax. Support for the economy, in the view of the NAP, must ensure the energy transition with a view to adopting more sustainable environmental practices. We have heard here today about the TAP and let me tell you that there are EUR 500 million planned for the TAP, but there are still no environmental counterparts, for example. Mr Minister, are you or are you not available to work with your Government to meet as the NAP proposes and aims precisely to ensure that these environmental balances exist? This is because the government cannot in fact close its eyes to the ecological transition which needs to be made and which necessarily goes from direct incentives to businesses in different areas, whether in navigation or in aviation, for example in agriculture, especially intensive and superintensive, to conversion into more sustainable production models. in this sense, we would also like to know whether or not Mr Minister is accompanying us in the creation of incentives and direct support for these companies and agriculture, for example, for the recovery of habitats and ecosystems, for the proper recovery and management of agricultural habitat, because, as we know, the NAP has long advocated the need for tax tools to be created that require more pollution. This would enable us to meet precisely the Roadmap and the goals of carbon neutrality while at the same time relieving labour taxes. Another issue that we cannot help but put is about mobility, especially the wagering on the railway. As you know, considerable part of greenhouse gas emissions originates in the transport sector. The NAP has particularly insisted on this issue and, therefore, we will propose the creation of a carbon rate applied to air and maritime travel, whose annual value can be over EUR 100 million. in this sense, Minister, we would like to know whether or not it is available to accompany us with the Government in order to reverse this rate to the Environment Fund and also to apply the desire to extend the railway at national level, in particular to all district capitals, or, for example, to improve the quality of the rail link itself. Mr Minister, we cannot finish this debate without bringing the issue of road PPPs, which have been a ruinous business for the country and which have, in this budget, more EUR 117 million for the next year, a cost three times higher than the structures associated with them. As happened in the 2013 State Budget, the NAP will propose a renegotiation of road PPPs. We would like to know whether or not the Minister is available to work on a proposal which can reduce this burden for the State. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u33	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u34	Mr President, Minister, I do not know whether it is the vegan budget or whether it is any other. I know one thing: I know it's the weakest budget in the history of the Socialist Party. And I say « weaker» because it is approved in this House, only and exclusively, with the support of non-attached Members of a party that has never been elected. That should already tell the Socialist Party much about the outcome we will have here this afternoon in relation to the State budget! But we should also think about why, in this budget which brings us here, the Minister appears today before the country saying that health is one of the main priorities of this budget. It wouldn't be bad if it wasn't, Minister! In the middle of a pandemic, it would be wrong for health not to be the high priority of this Budget! But since he talks about health, what does this Budget give us for the more than 1000 days, on average, of waiting for consultations, which continues to exist in the SNS? Absolutely nothing! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Mr. Minister spoke of municipalities, said they were fundamental to combating the pandemic. So how does this explain that this is the first budget that reduces the funds to the Municipal Social Fund, at a time when municipalities face a huge increase in expenditure in terms of school transport and meals? How are we going to reduce the funds for the municipalities at the time we ask them to finally fight COVID-19? [[Protests of PS Members.]] But I am telling you more, Minister : 40% of hotel and tourism had to fire employees this year — 40%. It never happened in the history of Portugal — 40%! And the extent to which the Government presents to recover these redundancies is a 'VATucher'. It sounds like a joke, but it's not, Minister. How will this sector help? What is the impact of this measure? What will be the liquidity of the increase for this sector? It is virtually null and void because, as Mr Minister knows, the whole sector has asked you to reduce the VAT of restoration, and the Minister has not done so because Mr Prime Minister has not allowed it and most likely because he knows that the government would not stand by. That's the truth! Therefore, you cannot say here that health is a priority, that hotels, tourism and restoration are a priority and that municipalities are a priority, when in these three fundamental areas significantly reduce the amount of money for all. This is the weakest budget in the history of the Socialist Party! And it will only be supported because there are many parties in this House who are afraid to go to the elections. António Costa became a kind of "get hold of him, otherwise he will leave" because if he leaves, all the other parties who are here are afraid to take the Portuguese to the polls again. Who will support this State budget has only one reason: the fear of elections in Portugal. It is the only reason to support this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u35	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u36	Mr President, Minister for Finance, in the discussion of this State budget with the Minister, I am pleased to note that the Government has welcomed, in the text of the proposed law that we are now debating, a standard to exclude entities linked to offshore public support created in the context of exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the pandemic. This is a measure whose concern was strongly expressed by the Greens with the government and which has been freezing, let us say, the injustice and immorality that the tax haven mechanism represents at least at the level of public support in the pandemic. In fact, if our country does not serve these companies here to establish their tax office, they should also not serve to receive public support from the State. Moreover, we are all tired of knowing that the entities that use this mechanism do so for the clear purpose of not paying taxes or even concealing the origin of that money, and often with these two objectives. In fact, it is not by chance that the use of tax havens represents one of the most common forms of international tax evasion, and it is estimated that there is a concentration of 26% of world wealth in tax havens. It also adds that tax havens substantially weaken the state's financial bases and do not create wealth for the country, questioning its revenues and resources that could otherwise be channeled to public investment in absolutely priority areas, such as public services and social policies. That is why, Minister, this measure is important, it is very important, but it would be even more important for the government to commit itself to putting an end to this immorality, which allows a few to live in tax havens and that the generality of living in a real tax hell. We know that the Portuguese Government cannot end tax havens outside its borders, but we also know that the Portuguese Government could play an important role with the European Union and other international organisations that it is part of to definitely put an end to this immorality that tax havens also represent from the point of view of tax evasion. But, Mr Minister, speaking of tax evasion and fraud, as you will certainly agree, more fiscal justice presupposes greater fiscal fairness, which, of course, requires a great deal of effort in combating fraud and tax evasion. And, as mentioned in the Government Programme, the success of combating fraud and tax evasion is an essential prerequisite for a more appropriate division of effort between families and businesses, a condition for greater fiscal fairness. We fully agree with what is stated in the Government Programme, but what we would like to know, Minister, is what measures and instruments are envisaged in particular in this Budget to combat fraud and tax evasion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u37	For clarifications, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Finance, the Government's proposed budget gives the deficit what is lacking in the country's response. The EUR 6 billion reduction in the deficit in a single year, especially in a year in which we face a serious economic and social situation and, above all, in a year when the restrictions of the European Union are suspended, are the mark of the PS Government's options that prevent the response to the country's problems. The response to the need to invest in the SNS, implementing the renovation and modernization of equipment or the construction of hospitals, has long been claimed by the populations who need them and have long been announced to populations; the response to investment in public school and public services in general; the response to the need to value workers' incomes and to support those who need them and also the response to a more fair fiscal policy. And the measure of retention in the source solves nothing in this sense. What is needed is to update the limits of the IRS steps; to continue the replacement path of the 10 steps, which existed before the PSD/CDS government had brutally aggravated the IRS; and, above all, there are necessary measures that degrade taxation on the lowest and middle incomes. This is done by increasing the minimum of existence and the specific deduction, which has been frozen since 2010, to the detriment of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u40	The minimum of existence and specific deduction are the mechanisms that allow to degrade taxation, affecting proportionally more on the lowest incomes. It is precisely at a time like what we live in, which is a worsening economic and social situation, that we need to increase the real available income of families, by dynamizing the economy. This is done by wages, social benefits, but also by a fairer fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u42	The CFP will move forward in 2021 for a real reduction in IRS, but also for a more appropriate taxation of large profits and high-value heritage. The essential question is to ensure that the profits made in Portugal are taxed in Portugal, instead of taking refuge in tax and offshore havens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u44	... that income subject to liberating rates is not taxed at a percentage lower than that of work income of equal or even lower value. If the big ones pay the taxes they owe, it is possible to lower taxes for everyone, particularly for those who have lower incomes and intermediate incomes. That is the fiscal policy we defend. What about the government? Are you going to fulfill your commitment to lowering the IRS in 2021? Will you follow the tax relief measures on workers and on lower and intermediate incomes? Will you defend that the profits generated in the country are taxed in Portugal, without slippers? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u45	To answer this block of questions, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions you asked me. With regard to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real's issues on climate change, I stress that climate change and the environment are one of the major priorities of this Budget and the Portuguese Recovery and Resilience Plan itself and that for this reason they have made a very important contribution to the NAP. I would also like to highlight, at this level, the NAP's contribution to the end of the exemptions in the ISP (the tax on oil and energy products) which will be a polluting use in electricity production, and also the opening of the Government to the issue raised on the carbon rate in the air and maritime travel part. I also wanted to reaffirm the Government's commitment to the implementation of the social energy tariff for the unemployed, which was a commitment made to the NAP by 2020. With regard to the questions put by the honourable Member in relation to the municipalities, I would like to point out that despite the economic crisis and the impact it is having on the public accounts, transfers to the municipalities increase by 10 % next year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government did not hesitate to pay for the first time the funds provided for the Financial Balance Fund — transfers to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u47	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u48	For the first time, the Government will meet the planned transfer funds to the Financial Balance Fund. It is an increase of more than 10 % of the funds in this context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u49	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u50	With regard to the sectors that you have mentioned, there is a great concern of the government not only to stimulate the activity of these sectors but also to support us in the maintenance of employment. Therefore, there is a dual concern: to give mechanisms to help these sectors maintain their workers and, at the same time, have the activity, essential to want to keep these workers. With regard to the issues raised by the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I would like to point out that in the 2021 budget, and also as a result of the intervention of the ENP, there is already a measure to veto support for companies located in offshore, to check their access to public support – the ENP has played an important role in this measure. In the 2021 Budget, there is a measure to combat tax evasion, and I also take advantage of it to answer a question posed by the CFP — for companies without stable establishment in Portugal, another measure that allows to combat tax evasion. With regard to the issues put by Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP, in fact, the State budget for 2021 has as priority to respond to the pandemic and the economic and social crisis it places, so the Government, and also in conversation with the partners, had to focus the main priorities on the response not only to the pandemic but also to the economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u51	Yeah, exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u52	from there some options that were taken to re-analyze certain measures to focus all priority on response to the pandemic and to whom it was most affected by this crisis. On the issues you have raised about the budget deficit, it is important to note that the reduction of the deficit is done solely by the growth of the economy and employment. Excluding interest and layoff measures related to subsidies, all remaining primary expenditure is increasing in the coming year to respond to the crisis 4 % compared to 2020. Therefore, it is a measure on the side of the expenditure, to finance public investment, to finance the SNS, to finance education, that is, we have a very significant increase in spending on public services, and also to support pensions and social benefits. I would also like to say that Portugal is of the few countries—and that also has to do with the way we have come to this crisis—which in Europe presents a budget that is clearly anticyclical, which does not, unlike other countries, have a reduction in the structural deficit, because we are committed to the recovery of the economy and employment and the protection of income. And we do so in a way that is sustainable and responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u53	We will move on to a third block of requests for clarification, to which the Minister for Finance has already informed the Bureau that he will answer together. To this end, Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Finance, would like to begin by welcoming you from the presentation of this Budget, at this difficult moment, above all, for not opting for a policy of austerity, which would further penalise families, businesses and workers, but rather for strengthening the fight against pandemics, the protection of families and the support of businesses. This is undoubtedly the most social budget in recent years, which reinforces the path we have gone. And so it is so imperceptible that the Left Block has originally given up on this path. This is a social budget, which is even more supportive of families and workers when the national minimum wage increases, reduces electricity VAT or increases pensions. But it is not just a social budget, which was already very positive given the difficult time we live in, it is also a budget that looks at the economy, businesses, when it creates lines of credit with the support of the state, when it extends the moratoriums on banking credits and employment support measures or when it does not increase taxes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we live a very difficult time, a time when no one can stay behind, in which no region can stay behind. And because it is in difficult times that we know who is next to us, it is important to emphasize that, even though the country is experiencing this storm, it does not forget the autonomous regions. Once again, this Government demonstrates that it is next to the Azores and Madeira when it complies with the Regional Finance Act, when it transfers a volume never before seen from European funds, when it ensures that funding for the fight against COVID-19 is not accounted for at the level of indebtedness, when it co-finances the new Madeira hospital by 50 % and shares the damage caused by Hurricane Lorenzo in the Azores or when it shares inter-related air connections or funds social mobility allowance. This is the way we started five years ago and we want to continue. It is the way to ensure that the Azores and Madeira have the necessary tools to meet with confidence the great challenges ahead. But, Mr Minister for Finance, like all the good budgets, this budget can and should be improved and improved in the specialty, and that is what we will do in the coming weeks, in defence of the Azores and Madeira. There are still concerns that persist. It is important to safeguard and implement clearly such issues as the continuation and deepening of decontamination on the third island, the development of the second phase of the construction of the Ponta Delgada Prison Establishment, the acceleration of the construction of the new Machico team or the guarantee of access of universities in autonomous regions to European funds. Mr Finance Minister, these, among others, are important investments for our regions and therefore it is so important for the Government to continue to demonstrate its support for the Azores and Madeira. We're sure it will be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u55	In the meantime, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u56	Mr President, before the new round of requests for clarification, I asked for the floor because I think these sessions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u57	What is the regimental figure you want to use?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u58	The question to the Bureau, because Mr. Minister for Finance, certainly for a while, I hope, and not for any other reason...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u59	What is the regiment figure you're using?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u60	The question to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings. Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance to answer my question about TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u61	Mr President, if you understand, you will respond at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u62	It was better not only to « understand », because it is an important question for public finances and taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u63	For clarifications, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u64	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, your Government continues to behave very badly with Madeira and to be very little supportive of the Madeirans. After rejecting all Madeira's aid applications at the beginning of the pandemic, since it refused the moratorium to PAEF ( Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ) and refused to grant the endorsement to the COVID-19 loan, it has now presented a very bad proposal of the State Budget for Madeira. A proposal that, among other things, contains an anti-Madeira standard and that no Madeirar can accept. No Madeirar can accept, Mr Minister, that his Government, in full pandemic, intends to transfer the Republic's duties and powers to Madeira, without the corresponding financial envelope, such as those relating to health care and medicines of the PSP ( Public Security Police ), the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and the Armed Forces. Mr. Minister, no Madeirar can accept this behaviour, no Madeirar can accept that the Government continues without paying the EUR 20 million it owes to Madeira for these subsystems. Mr Minister, this attitude of pushing for Madeira is of enormous gravity and injustice and should already be more than enough to justify voting against any Madeiran to this budget. But, Minister, there is still more to lament for Madeira in this budget. Its Government continues to provide less than 50 % for the new Madeira hospital and legitimately deducting the value of two Madeira hospital units to the 50 % promised. Your government continues not to pay a single penny for Madeira helicopter and to say in the Budget that supports the reinforcement of fire fighting in Madeira — let's know how... His Government continues to ignore and omit 10 commitments approved by this Parliament for Madeira in the 2020 budget, such as the regulation of social mobility allowance, ferry, access to European funds by the University of Madeira. His Government continues to pay no health expenses for Venezuelan returnees. Mr Prime Minister, Minister for Finance, the question the Madeirans ask is when when will your government change its strategy and stop harming Madeira? And now, Minister, when will your government pay what it owes Madeira and Madeirans? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u65	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, the CFP has already stated with all clarity that it does not give up this fight and this work in the budgetary debate to address national problems and to confront them with the alternative that exists to give them an answer. As we have pointed out, it is in the face of the concrete options that the Government has to clarify whether it is with the CFP that it will converge or whether it is with others that it wants to achieve understandings and convergences. It is about the concrete options for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that we are asking about. When it becomes increasingly evident the urgency of supporting these companies, of not leaving these small and micro-enterprises and workers, the government needs to define the concrete measures that it will ultimately take in this Budget to respond to the grueling problems they are facing. Finally, will support be guaranteed and, above all, the effectiveness of its application, reaching the ground, in the companies where they need it? Will there really be a political will to move on to practice without further waste of time? Or are you going to continue the limited, insufficient, late and late answers, pushing the problems forward? That is what we need to be clear about in the budgetary debate, Minister! Are they going to converge with the CFP to end exclusions and discrimination in the access of companies to support? Or will the absurd criteria continue to remove thousands and thousands of companies and entrepreneurs, in the rules, in the accounting systems, in the decisions of the banks? Will they converge with the CFP on the strengthening and effective implementation of measures to support micro and small business partners? Or will the obstacles, the bureaucracys, the procedural complications with which these entrepreneurs are confronted be maintained? Will the government agree with whom on taxation issues for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? Will you again assume the restrictive, restrictive view of retrogression to the law of this House, of course, as regards the suspension of payment on behalf of IRC? Or are you going to review this position and finally accept this measure, as approved in June of this year, on a proposal from the CFP?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u67	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u68	The law passed in June, Minister. Mr. Minister, Mr. Member of the Government, it is not worth speaking generally of « protecting income » or « supporting enterprises » if, in particular, in the options and measures of budgetary policy and economic policy, the « convergences » are ultimately to prevent and not to achieve the answers to the problems of the country, the national economy, the productive sectors and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why it is now important that the Government clearly assumes which side it wants to take in this budgetary debate. It's just that this is not how it starts, Minister, it's how it ends. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u69	Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u70	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Finance, throughout a significant period of our most recent history, the parliamentary right has tried to make us believe in the minimal state and insisted on the ideological attack on public investment, trying to demonize it — the famous devil that was coming there! Today, some cry for more state, because the crisis makes any defender of neoliberalism in an authentic Keynesian.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u71	That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u72	We will certainly see that in the coming weeks, in the debate in the specialty. Today, even the suspicious Dr. Vítor Gaspar signs a study of the also suspicious International Monetary Fund, stressing that this is the time of public investment. Only the PSD apparently continues to believe in austerity, except when it asks for everything and its opposite. This statement is nothing more than the full assumption of the economic and social error that was the famous strategy of "go beyond the troika" and this is, admittedly, the time to affirm public policies by positive, betting on quality public investment, with multiplier effects on our economy. The current pandemic situation has created an economic and social crisis, with external causes. This has put new and important challenges: they are times of difficulty but at the same time of confidence, resilience and commitment in economic recovery. The proposal for a State Budget Act for the year 2021, which we are discussing today generally follows this line, based on a countercyclical economic policy aimed at economic and social recovery.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u74	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a budget proposal which, despite the crisis, does not spare any effort to support Portuguese, nor does it cease to increase investment in critical areas of public service, with health as priority. Betting in new hospitals is therefore an example. In addition, we should emphasise investment in public school. The budget we are discussing today provides for a strong increase in public investment over 23 %, an increase of EUR 1000 million. That is why the right is against this Budget. The right is against public investment, it is against giving money to the National Health Service and against giving money to the public school. We want to know, Minister, what leads the Government to adopt a countercyclical policy at a time of crisis, contrary to the model adopted in the previous crisis. Does it not seem strange that left-wing forces prefer this Budget to enter the photograph of who defends the minimal state? The next few years will be decisive for Portugal, given that as a result of the European negotiations, the country will receive the largest European financial package of all time, which can reach EUR 58 billion. This budget proposal gives continuity to a railway bet strategy, which is crucial for decarbonisation and mobility. This is also a budget which provides for the strengthening of the value envisaged to support social passes and the reduction of domestic tolls. Another sector that will watch the greatest investment ever is that of housing, ensuring the increase in public supply, which will translate into the advancement of the realization of a constitutionally consecrated right. Mr Minister, I finally wonder whether this is the State Budget which sets out the strategy of the Recovery and Resilience Plan and whether public investment is not crucial to ensuring employment and supporting businesses. How can the right parliament continue to fail to understand that this is the only solution to respond to this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u75	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To request clarification, Mr. Alberto Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u76	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in what will be the biggest economic crisis in our lives, and when more needs to stimulate the growth of the Portuguese economy, the main flag of this government is a non-action: we will not increase taxes. The norm is no longer just to charge taxes, now the new norm for the socialist governments is to increase taxes. In such a way that you feel the need to advertise as your main flag. Mr Minister and Mr Fernando Anastácio, it was most lacking that, in the face of such a crisis that the Government itself does not tire of saying that it is different from all the others, the Government would even increase taxes on Portuguese, in which it is already the greatest tax burden of all time, and sink them even further.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u77	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u78	Mr Prime Minister, Minister, please do not insult the Portuguese intelligence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u79	Portugal is already of the few countries in which taxes are not lowered to respond to this crisis. If we move on to the second step that the Government announces in its Report on the State Budget, the elimination of the rise in autonomous taxation has an impact of EUR 10 million. In a budget of EUR 100 billion, the government relieves the tax burden of companies by EUR 10 million. This large measure corresponds to 0,01 % of the Budget, not of GDP (gross domestic product ), but of the State budget. When the government dedicates this huge amount of money to support companies, it is almost as if it wanted to put out a fire with a burrier. It really seems that this government is getting bored for businesses, but not for all, because there is one that escapes this horrendous lack of support. It is a company which, in these two years alone, receives virtually the same support as all other companies together. It is called TAP, which, in the view of the Government, are the air transports of the Portela which, in 2020, received EUR 1200 million and in 2021, will receive support of more than EUR 500 million, and the Council of Public Finance alerts that we may not stay here. The government intervenes in the TAP without having a recovery plan, but the worst part is that part of this money is not even being applied in Portugal, but in Brazil. unlike what other countries did in Europe, Portugal did not safeguard that this money was applied only in Portugal. Last Friday, at the hearing in the context of the general assessment, Mr. Secretary of State assumed that with the money that the government transferred to TAP, operational costs were paid in Brazil. It is recalled that TAP has more than 750 workers there and that it is a permanently negative operation. So, because this is a scandal and because the Portuguese deserve to know, I ask: how much money the Portuguese state has been invested and spent in Brazil? Mr Minister, I ask you only one question and I hope you will answer it: how many million of the Portuguese taxes have been transferred to Brazil? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u80	It is the turn of Mr Miguel Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group to ask for clarifications. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Minister for Finance, what does the PSD mean when it tells us that it is against a distribution budget that supports income? What is at stake here is what we learned from the previous crisis, that is, if, as they thought, it is necessary to impoverish to get out of the crisis and, for that, it is important to cut, cut, cut or if we realize that there is no demand for income and that without seeking there is no offer. What is at stake here is whether we win this crisis by defending Portuguese income or we win it by cutting its income. [[Protests from PSD MP João Moura.]] Yes, that's what they tried between 2010 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u82	2010? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u83	The available income of the adjusted Portuguese for inflation fell 10 % and that is what we will revert from the 2015 legislative elections. And, yes, when the 2019 legislative elections arrived, we had already recovered the real available income of families. And this does not reflect free manuals, nor cheaper passes, nor any other measures that have made such a difference to the family budget. Don't! Economic growth was not a miracle, nor a Europe's blight. It was thanks to the recovery of income that we again grew more than the European Union, for the first time since we joined the euro. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If this has given us a better starting point to face this crisis, we know that it is valuing the available income that we are going to grow again. And that's what this Budget does. Do so for those who work — and, yes, Mr Ventura, for those who have already worked so much, increasing the minimum wage and lower pensions — but also do so for those who have lost their income and their work and who need more and new social support, above the poverty threshold. Do so by relieving the tax effort, reducing the IRS retained in the source and the VAT of electricity and doing so for those who support our culture, our hotel, our restoration, through the return of VAT in the VATucher. Do it for those who live in the interior, with discounts on the tolls, do it for the young families, in which 11,000 children will become free daycare. Do it also in access to health, with the end of the moderate fees in the exams and do it in support of young people's hiring, with more internships and higher scholarships. And it also has to do with public investment which, with the prospect of growing 56 %, can also create a lot of income. Mr Minister, with the open door we will do more, together, on the left, in the specialty, there is no doubt that this is a completely different budget than what the right has done in response to the previous crisis, which rejects austerity, which fights the pandemic, investing in the SNS, which protects employment and cares for the economy. This is a Budget that, in its conception, values people and their income. Can these be the foundations of a recovery as fast as long as it lasts and, above all, inclusive? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u84	In order to make the last request for clarification to the Minister, Mr António Ventura, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u85	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members, last Sunday, the Azorian people removed the absolute majority from the Socialist Party in the Azores. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u86	This defeat is also a defeat of the Government of the Republic,... [[PSD applause.]] ... because he has come to promise and commit to the Azorians since the end of 2015 without fulfilling. Mr Minister, is this the Budget closing the deficit of POSEI(Specific Options Programme for Elegance and Insularity) for the Azores in about 10 million euros? Mr Minister, is this the Budget that has money for the total decontamination of the third island soils and aquifers? [[Protests by PS MP Miguel Matos.]] Mr Minister, is this the Budget providing for investments in the Port of Praia da Vitoria? Mr Minister, is this the budget that recognizes the University of the Azores as an academy in an outermost region? Mr Minister, is this the Budget that has money for the effective construction of the two missing meteorological radars in the Azores? Mr Minister, is this the Budget meeting the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan? Mr Minister, speak to the Azorians, do not opt for silence, because the Azorians are also Portuguese. The gentlemen have just taken a lesson, a defeat of the Azorian people! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u87	To reply, Mr. Minister of State and Finance John Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members with regard to the question raised on the TAP, I would like to point out that, as planned this year, EUR 1200 million will be lent to TAP under the agreement with the European Commission. The generality of European countries is giving support to these companies, like Portugal, which have been greatly affected by this crisis. They are the companies most affected by this crisis and this support is given in general in European countries. But we know that the PSD and the Liberal Initiative, by the way, want to close the TAP, want Portugal not to have access to a company that is so important not only to connect Portugal to the different areas of the world, but also to the competitiveness of Portugal and to connect Portugal to the diaspora. Another very important aspect concerns Mrs Lara Martinho's question regarding autonomous regions. I would also like to reply to Mr António Ventura and Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, saying that, despite the crisis and the most difficult financial conditions, the Government complies with the law of regional finances next year, strengthening either for the Azores or for Madeira, creates exceptions to the debt limit to help these regions cope with the pandemic, reinforces, has money and reaffirms the commitment to finance the Funchal hospital and, for the Azores, reaffirms the commitment to finance the expenditure incurred under Hurricane Lourenço. On the other hand, it is also important to note that there will be significant European funds for autonomous regions, in addition to others. And, yes, this Budget has money to complete the new radars, decontamination, the work of the Prison Establishment of Ponta Delgada, among other projects that were mentioned. With regard to the question put by PSD Member Alberto Fonseca, I would like to point out that the PSD is against a budget that, he says, gives what he has and what he does not have, gives everyone everything. But only for the PSD is that it should be cut in the increase in the minimum wage, that pensions should not be increased to two million pensioners, that is, this extraordinary support should not be created for pensioners, that new social support should not be made to protect those who have become more fragile. For the PSD, what is in fact relevant is to reduce taxes on large profit companies, the few companies that have not been affected by this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u89	But the support is bigger!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u90	But even the IMF itself (International Monetary Fund ) recommends that this should not be the priority in the context of the crisis. Even Vítor Gaspar's IMF recognizes that this should not be the priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But that is the only concern of the PSD. Mr President, that is not the way to recover the economy next year. Recovering the economy next year is protecting the jobs of companies, it is helping companies that have been most affected by the crisis to keep jobs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u91	That's not in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u92	... is to help finance companies and have a countercyclical economic policy that supports the economy, Portuguese and business. With regard to the question put by Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP, I would also like to point out that the first support which was approved in the context of the Supplementary Budget has already been achieved in September. In this context, we can talk to the CFP to exchange information to realize the importance of these support. It is also important to highlight here a measure that was approved with the CFP, which was the end of the CFP ( special payment on account) in 2019, and that was very important for micro and small enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u93	That was pre-COVID!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u94	I would also like to point out that, in the context of financing businesses, in particular micro and small enterprises, we are available — and the State budget provides for a very important sum for State-guarantee loans — to help finance companies. We want to do so quickly to help companies get through this crisis. Finally, I wanted to give a note on the reaction to the crisis, which was mentioned by the honourable Members. Members of PS Hugo Costa, Lara Martinho and Miguel Matos. In fact, our response to the crisis is very different from the PSD response. It's good to have alternatives. The PSD, when it reaches an economic crisis, automatically enters an austerity mode. The PSD is against an anticyclical economic policy, it is in favour of an economic policy that adds crisis to the crisis and that will aggravate the living conditions of Portuguese and accentuate unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] We have an alternative response that proved to be a great success when, along with the other parties on the left, helped the country to get out of the previous crisis. in this sense, we showed at the time that we were able to do so and that we were right. We want, once again, together with the other left-wing parties, to show that there is an alternative to this PSD vision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u95	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u96	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in the middle of the budgetary debate. This afternoon the State budget for 2021 will be voted on in general. of the debate so far, we can already conclude that from what we see on the right there is no alternative to the State budget. So far, they have not presented ideas and have referred to the role of commentators. The vote against will not be opposition, it will be resignation, the failure of those who know it does not count for the country's decisive decisions. But who thinks that the vote on the Left Block is confused with the vote on the right. It is not ideologically confused, unlike what has always happened when the PS stood up right to vote against the rights of those who work or to defend the benefits of the financial sector, nor is it confused by the resignation of the assertion of an alternative. This left is far from resignation or surrender. Our vote is for the future, not for the return to the past. We fight for what is essential to the future of the country and our people: strengthening the National Health Service; security for those afflicted with unemployment and poverty; protection of employment; protection of the State of financial plundering. As was seen during the debate, the only party that has an alternative to this State Budget is the Left Block. This alternative is a set of reforms that the crisis has proved, again, to be urgent and still the PS wants to postpone again. Those who believe it to be a war are deceived in the same way as those who think it is a matter of detail. Different views on the response that we should give to people in the greatest crisis of our lives are at stake. Let us, then, seriously discuss these differences and show how the Government's proposal fails where it could not fail. Mr Prime Minister has already acknowledged that this crisis has exposed the excessive deregulation of the so-called'labour market', but when the Left Block made concrete proposals, the Government has responded with a document keeping the rules of the troika and the right, which have taken rights to workers. The government did not accept to restore the value of the redundancies, which was defended by PS itself in 2012, while maintaining the low cost redundancies imposed by Passos Coelho, which protect workers. They refused that no one would be treated under the law, refusing the reintegration of the most favourable treatment principle and nor the recent invention of the extension of the experimental period, which was negotiated with the bosses and with the right, agreed to withdraw. In the face of a crisis that shows the fragility of labour relations and protects employment, the government wants to keep the essential as it is. We are watching a huge wave of dismissals and the government prefers to leave the laws of the troika in force than to defend employment. We can't accept it! And, in the face of the current social crisis, the social protection proposed by the Left Block was transformed into the extraordinary, timely support that lowers the social support created in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u97	Get me down? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u98	The proof of its fragility is that it leaves without a response a couple of independent workers in which both had the average salary before the crisis and now one of them has lost the income. They stay in poverty and out of this support. Knowing this fragility, we cannot ignore it. But there is more: the government's social response has a very negative impact on the construction of contributory careers and pensions, while again maintaining the troika cuts in unemployment benefit. Why insist on this mistake, knowing the brutality of the crisis we are facing? In health, the government makes a lot of announcements, but little realisations. In order not to enter into a dispute of numbers with the government, we have put the tools that we have at our disposal to understand what is true, and must be taken seriously, and what is false and therefore not to be considered. Verification of facts, fact-checking: Mrs Catarina Martins has already recalled that it is not enough to launch competitions, because there are vacancies that are always deserted. About a third of the vacancies are to be filled. This is due to the low wages in the SNS compared to the values practised in the private sector, and it is also explained by the degradation of working conditions, which lead to exhaustion. The Left Block has told you the truth. The Prime Minister announced yesterday that the SNS budget will increase EUR 805 million by 2021. The conclusion is that government numbers are misleading. The transfer to the SNS next year, with all the requirements that the pandemic will place, has a boost of only 0, 03 % compared to the executed. Will Mr. Finance Minister say we're wrong? That is precisely what is in the State Budget Report. It also says that increased staff costs are lower than expected in 2020. Are these the deceptions of the Left Block, Minister of Finance? Oh, my God! in this same Report, the data still say that, in total, 1 cent of the planned expenditure in the Supplementary Budget for the National Health Service was not used. It's another mistake of ours, sirs. Members of the government? Oh, my God! It is that, whenever the Government tries to deny the Left Block, what it is attacking is the State Budget Report that the Government itself submitted. It is the credibility of the government's data that is at stake. As for the professionals of the National Health Service, the State Budget promises the net reinforcement of 4200 professionals, of which 1500 doctors. Let us then examine how the Government intends to achieve this goal. Yesterday, the same calendar that had been delivered to us was handed over to the public newspaper. I am glad that this information has been made public by the Government itself, because it allows us now to see that the objective of the State budget will not be met. Let's see : of the 4342 professionals with a contract announced, 1500 vacancies for doctors are going to the competition and about a third will be to be completed, as the government itself recognizes. We are still talking about a retirement of 434 medical specialists throughout 2021. In total, we talked about a reinforcement of only about 600 doctors in the National Health Service over the next year. What about the other professions? The government will regulate the bond of 2200 professionals, but these people already work in the National Health Service with four-month contracts. We owe you the contract, of course, but it is not a net reinforcement of the services. of the net reinforcement of 4200 professionals, announced by the government, we will, at best, have only 1500 people entering the SNS and most of them only in the last quarter of 2021. To be mistaken in the accounts is this, Minister John Leon. This means that the State budget is not going to be fulfilled. And now I challenge Mr. Prime Minister or the Minister of Health to prove that we are wrong. We have already told the government all this and they have never been able to explain it to us. More: they have never clarified, even duly because they reject proposals such as the exclusive dedication of professionals, for example. We remember what management was. Held on the right, he had the courage to show that there was a way to recover income and rights, but it was the government that a year ago refused to renew it, opting for the annual negotiation of budgets without common objectives for the legislature. Well, that's exactly what we're doing here. Less understandable is that the PS itself, which was disinterested in management in 2020, replaces it with anathema and hostility in 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u99	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u100	In fact, the best moments of yesterday's debate were when almost all the parties, including the government, tried to speak here on behalf of the Bloc voters. We appreciate the concern of all and of all with the feelings of the electorate of the Left Block, but it is precisely because we respect the mandate that we receive from him that we cannot ignore the failures of this State budget at such a demanding time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u101	This is the left that fulfills your word. And in the light of this demand from the country, how can this State Budget be qualified? As the fact-checkers said, this is a deceptive budget! It seems to have a new social benefit, but it has the extraordinary and limited support that does not reach all the people who will need it. It seems to defend the SNS, but does not guarantee you the means and professionals to cope with the pandemic. He seems to care about who he works, but he keeps the right and the troika in labor relations. It seems to defend the state of the financial bag, but it still has the door open at the bottom abutre Lone Star. It seems to be a Budget to face the crisis, but it fails in essential areas. Can this Budget stop being a cheater and pass on to the test of reality? Our proposals are public and are a result of a negotiation process, in which we have been absolutely transparent, has already said it: strengthening the SNS; defending the employment and protection of the State of financial pillage; security for those who are afflicted with unemployment and poverty; leaving no one behind. These are the same proposals that will return to the Socialist Party table. Political clarification will be the answer to these urgent measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u102	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no requests for clarification, so we are going to move on to the next intervention. For the PS, you have the floor Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u103	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of 2015, Francisco Louçã wrote an opinion article whose title was Everything depends on the Perspective and gave the example of the Tower of Pisa to conclude that « What is needed is to choose why the tower will continue tilted as before. But we will have chosen what we want." Now, I remember this passage to point out precisely that the perspective does not change reality. The Left Block chose what it wanted, as your mentor advocates. He chose the perspective of not valuing the Budget with more social support from this democracy; he chose the perspective of pretending that this is not the Budget with more public investment since 2010 and chose the perspective of ignoring the State Budget with the greatest strengthening of the National Health Service since 2015. This was the prospect that the Left Block chose, even if its reality had been to ask for all this in a negotiated process interrupted in the middle in a peculiar and unusual withdrawal of that which is today the reality of the country. The announced vote against is therefore the announcement of the country's failure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD leader has already raised the devil. You will vote against today because, according to him, there is everything for everyone and, above all, there is a minimum wage increase. For Mr Rui Rio a crisis budget, the worst of our lives, should not try to give what can be given to alleviate suffering, to combat the degradation of social indicators and to protect the economy and employment. In the scriptures of the PSD leader, policies in times of crisis should be those that add the most crisis: the famous and already exhausting austerity strategy that, when consumption falls, chooses the way of withdrawing incomes; when the market does not generate conditions of economic growth, the way is to cut spending, neglecting the relevance of public investment. It is true that the leader of the PSD bench recalled, in an interview with a national newspaper, that the vote against the State budget is just a beer from his party, in a sort of encapsulated jealousy crisis, leaving the Portuguese and joining in with the prospect of Louçán and his Bloc and against the reality of the country, against the reality of the Budget and without any consideration for the principle of responsibility that times require. If there were any doubts about the reality of this Budget, the Left Block and the PSD dared to show it with the perspectives they decided to choose: one says it's an expansionist, because it gives everything to everyone, and the other says it's a contractionist, because it doesn't give enough. The Portuguese people, from the height of their wisdom, already question why some vote against a budget for which they have contributed, loudly and in the sight of all, and others because they lay down pillars of responsibility, as if they were responsible for abandoning workers and businesses, adding incomes to the first because of the difficulties of the second. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the debate around the State budget for 2021 closes another fallacy that needs to be clarified and even dismantled. According to some voices, the PSD but not only, there is nothing for companies. Of course, this is an unfounded proclamation. Moreover, the evaluation of this issue cannot be done, in fact, not only by the State Budget proposal, but also by the Recovery and Resilience Plan, by the Plurianual Financial Framework and, no less important, by the Supplementary Budget. Moreover, no one understands that the PSD does not want to take advantage of all the means available to stimulate economic activity, come from Europe or come from the State budget. It is therefore another incomprehensible proclamation of the bay of your propaganda. The PS Parliamentary Group and this Government are aware of the importance of stimulating economic activity as a central axis for the recovery of the country. In turn, we have no doubt about the role of companies in the agenda that we are building for economic growth and job creation. However, contrary to the monolithic view of some opposition, we understand that incentives for business activity are not only, nor should they be tax or, more specifically, the reduction of IRC. The demonstration of this fallacy is clear in the balance sheet of the last four years of the previous legislation, in which private investment struck record in democracy and grew far above the European Union average, all of this without any reduction of IRC and with public policies that recovered the confidence of companies, which was completely shattered by the policies on the right. [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] Mr President, in our view, evidenced by facts, there is a mix of policies that can make a decisive contribution to economic growth through business dynamism. In addition, in this pandemic period when the protection of economic activity has been at the forefront of this government, the mechanisms that have been successful in the first phase of the health crisis will be maintained and, in some cases, strengthened because they have proved to be the most appropriate to the circumstances, namely the Layoff, which has already benefited more than 115 000 companies, more than 80 % of micro-enterprises and almost one million and four hundred thousand workers, and, of course, of banking and fiscal moratoriums or of acceleration in European fund payments. For this next phase, the path is to continue, with concrete measures, namely: in response to the difficulties in demand, more than EUR 500 million of EUR 500 million of consumer incentive will be introduced for the following phase, the following step is to continue with concrete measures: in response to demand difficulties, more than EUR 500 million euros of consumer incentive will be introduced, in which the 'VVATucher' stands out, of course, but also a set of measures which increase the available income, where more wages or more pensions or even pensions or even rents and passes, which leave to weigh so much in the family budget; for the difficulties of private investment, the extraordinary investment credit for investment is strengthened, and it affects - almost EUR 6 billion euros of RRRRPR EUR 6 billion of EUR 6 billion in investment and it affects - almost EUR 6 billion EUR 6 billion of EUR EUR EUR 6 billion in investment reduction and combating downdowndowndowndowndowndowndowndowndownover exports has been introduced a temporary fiscal incentive; for the necessary strengthening of the capitalisation of enterprises is being launched, by 2021, by 2021, which, by 2021, creating new credit lines with 2021, which provides new credit lines with a guarantee lines with public guarantee with public guarantee with public guarantee with a guarantee of public guarantee of EUR and fair ; the public guarantee of EUR and fair ; the fair guarantee and fair guarantee of EUR EUR million and fair guarantee of EUR. Mr President, this is the answer to the needs of companies. It is not proclamational, it is factual and can be demonstrated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u104	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to make a request for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u105	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, one thing is speech, another is the real reality of the facts, the real reality of the life of people and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u107	You insist on a proclamation speech, pamphlet, announce financial bazaars, pharaonic projects — many of them have not just a previous study — but, Mr President, we really have to go to reality and I will give you some numbers of what is the reality of the economy. They are not my numbers, they are INE numbers (National Institute of Statistics ). The largest ever catastrophic fall in GDP in the second quarter of 2020, 16, 3 %, and against the first quarter 13, 9 %. Internal search has decreased. [[Protests of PS Members.]] There are 6 billion moratoriums in the bank waiting to be paid, and Mr announces a wonderful country, announces public investment. You were responsible, after a mandate to prevent the modernization of public services, such as transport, leaving contests in the drawer, investment in health, with gross negative consequences in combating the pandemic, whether in health centres,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u108	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u109	... be in the hospitals, and come here today, you say that it is now that we have public investment, after they have prevented the country from evolving! [[PS protests.]] But let's go further: you speak at TAP. Sir, do you know how much it costs the Portuguese TAP per month? It's 100 million euros! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u110	Do you know how much it'll cost next year, in principle? More than EUR 500 million — this is in the background of Mr. Minister for Finance. Do you know what a basic scenario represents? It certainly represents another type of scenarios, very superior.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u111	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u112	My colleague Alberto Fonseca raised important questions about TAP to Mr Minister for Finance. I'd like you to answer. But still about the PRR — and now I am going back to Mr Prime Minister — he is kind of a program to do what has not yet been done. Mr. Prime Minister, for six months, he didn't,... [[PS protests.]] ... but now comes with public investment, for public services, essentially—for example, the green hydrogen strategy, which no one knows what it is—, trying to cover the sun with the sieve. Mr. Carlos Pereira, I ask you whether it is through the financial bazauca, which will take a few years to arrive, which will go to the serious financial crisis and the social and economic crisis with which the Portuguese are facing each day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u113	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u114	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, thank you for asking a question. I wanted to start by telling you that I agree with you, you need to separate the discourse from reality, and I start right there, I begin, exactly, by public investment. The honourable Member seems to want to forget that public investment in the legislature that Mr has supported the PSD/CDS fell EUR 2000 million, i.e. 34 %; in the PS legislature, public investment fell 1% — 1 %! So, Mr. Deputy, I think we are talking about public investment. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u115	Tell the Portuguese the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u116	I would also like to tell the honourable Member what he said about the TAP. The issues of the TAP have already been widely discussed in this plenary, but I have not yet heard—and many opportunities have been given to PSD Members—what the PSD wants to do about the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u117	The question is: what does the government want to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u118	The Government and the PS Parliamentary Group are very clear: we want to support the TAP company, we do not want to drop the TAP. And you know why, Your Honor? Because it represents 2, 6 billion euros of Portuguese exports, what you like so much, and if you want to create a foreign company we soon lose 2, 6 billion euros, which are, of course, missing for public investment and social activity. So what is really relevant here is that the PSD does not leave this debate, after so many questions about the TAP, without saying what it wants to do with it: if you want to end the TAP, if you want to fire the workers all or if you want to find a solution to the TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] On companies, which seems to me to be a very relevant debate, it is also very important for the PSD to clarify whether it does not want the financial resources that have been obtained with great effort by the country and with great determination by the Prime Minister to the European Union. The PRR means a great conquest for the country, it is more than EUR 12 billion that are available and the Prime Minister has already said very clearly that almost 50 % of these means are to support companies. Mr President, I am going to tell you one thing: do you know how much the country has executed in PT 2020 in relation to companies? He executed EUR 6 billion. What we are doing is doubling this value, which means that the country will have to run EUR 2000 million per year to support companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I shall finish by saying the following, Mr President: we do not forget that you are a Member of the European Parliament. Members and the previous government included EUR 16 billion in financial instruments in PT 2020. We arrived in 2018 and we didn't spend anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u119	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u120	We had to do a reprogramming or we'd lose the money! And I'm saying this why? Because we all have to understand that there is a limit by which the private sector and companies cannot use public resources, so what is at stake here is a colossal effort of the different programmes to support business activity. And that's not all. It is natural that there should be a set of support in this State budget which are of a fiscal nature and which, of course, have direct and immediate support for the Portuguese economy. I should like to remind the honourable Member that the fight against this crisis has been made, above all, by protecting the economy: EUR 2000 million has been used for layoff, as well as tax moratoriums and banking moratoriums, and will continue next year with more than EUR 1000 million from the new layoff. Therefore, it seems clear that companies outside are aware of the government's efforts and do not want to question the financial support coming from Europe or coming from anywhere else. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u121	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u122	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Liberal Initiative has already said so: this is a Budget that delays recovery and postpones Portugal. The Government of the Socialist Party said that the fight against the crisis would have three phases: the emergency phase, the stabilization stage and the recovery stage. It was supposed that these phases would have a chronological order, that is, they would come one after another, but the sad reality is that we are walking around, walking back and forth, walking to the sides, all the less walking forward. At the emergency stage, nothing was learned. For months we have warned that, in running the SNS pandemic, we have stopped taking care of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese, 7000 of whom have tragically entered the list of deaths to explain, but only now does the Minister of Health agree to resort to the other health, private and social system, an ideological leimosia that cost lives, which in one country with another requirement would already have had political consequences. The next phase, which told us that it would be stabilization, was, and is, confusion. It is difficult to find something more erratic than the guidelines successively issued by the government. I wouldn't have time to list them here today, but everyone remembers the inexplicable differences in the treatment of masks, visits to the elderly, planes, roots, « Avantes! », tournaments, football, pregnant women, Formula 1 and minors at risk. And the delirium continues: the movement limitation measures for this weekend are so well thought out that it means that it is possible to go to the council next door to see a martial arts film, but it is not possible to go visit the confined parents who live next to that same cinema. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] I mean, as a political official, could, because they want to give me a political privilege, but I have already rejected that privilege. Now, I thought, we'd be in the recovery phase. But what recovery? The country will not recover nor will it develop without ever more innovative private companies, agile and productive, able to pay better wages to people. For these companies this State Budget is a handful of nothing! There is money for everything but for the real recovery of the economy. For TAP there are EUR 1700 million—and it will not stay here—which is more than twice what the layoff measure cost the whole economy. For public service, which is a clientele of trade unions with votes, there is EUR 795 million to increase the wage mass, which is twice the amount allocated to VATucher and to tax credit to investment and 20 times — 20 times! — the allocation to IRS Young and to IRS for the second child. We are talking about the priorities of this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u123	Your intervention should be spread by hospitals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u124	But there are not only shy measures, there are also cynical measures, those that pretend to be what they are not. The reduction of retention at source, which pretends to be a reduction in taxes; the tax increase in costs of internationalisation, which pretends that someone will invest in internationalisation because it will save 2 % or 3 % within one year; capital injections in the New Bank, which pretend to be sufficient 476 million euros and that the General Deposit Box is not the taxpayers. There is a sentence in the Budget Report, right from the outset, which says everything about what companies can expect from this Budget. In the chapter « support companies », the first measure is this: taxes will not be increased. Thank you, Socialist Party! It's very generous of you. This is the budget in which the revenue of management is clear, in which it is clear what has cost the country the support of the Block and the PCP to the PS governments. In the dozens of measures proposed by the extreme left there is no one that does not increase expenditure and there is no one that favours investment or qualified employment. This is also a technically weak and very untransparent budget. There are dozens of repairs by UTAO and the Council of Public Finance to the robustness of the assumptions, errors and inconsistencies of the maps, to the clarifications that have not arrived and, by beer from the Government, according to the Minister of Finance himself, there is the elimination of the annex to the budgetary impacts which, in the interests of transparency, contained the quantification of budgetary measures. this year, for the PS, transparency has ended and I must say that today, in this debate, we have had another example of this. In the light of the concrete question as to what was going on with regard to the TAP's liquidity plan, the answer was zero, because the Minister of Finance was not even worthy to acknowledge the question. All of this shows that the government and the PS are disoriented. There are too many elections to distract Ministers and Socialist Members, whether the presidents, the autarchics, the succession of António Costa and now even the regions of the Azores. at a time when Portugal needed a more informed and determined government, what we have is a disoriented government and rulers and to think about their own political future. Portugal cannot be delayed any longer, nor can the change be postponed. Therefore, we take our vote against this Budget, a Budget that delays recovery and postpones Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u125	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In times of crisis, it is unforgivable that this budget ignores the central role of companies in relaunching the economy, creating jobs and building a better country. And that is evident, in a caricature, even offensive, when the government boasts that the reason that it gives priority to supporting businesses and protecting jobs is the absence of tax increases. In other words, the government says,'stay still, the Budget is helping companies. Next, companies are priority. They remain », he says, for the disarming reason that it does not increase taxes, which is an unusual audacity in the midst of this shipwreck and translates a vision that diminishes private initiative as the motor of society. For this government, do not increase taxes—in a country in fiscal suffocation, when companies desperately struggle to survive, save jobs, honour their commitments and have determination to face the future—it is not a right, it is a mercy; it is not a duty, it is a gift. Perhaps this contempt on the part of the companies, their marginalization, gives rise to the need of the Government to re-establish the parliamentary majority, which gives it meaning, year by year and more, to the impulses of those who portray companies as means of exploitation guided by perverse purposes. It may also simply be that the PS is another, which has excluded the importance of promoting wealth creation and employment through the best energies of society. I know that, on the contrary, the PSD views companies, jobs that create and the social market economy as one of the happiest and liberating achievements of the human spirit,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u128	... which is essential for building a fair society, for an appropriate community organization and whose prosperity collaborates in the realization of the catalogue of nuclear social rights such as health or education. This is what gives, in this absence of companies and, as a result, in the de-protection of employment, this background of fundamental principles of one, the PS, in favour of prejudices dated from others. Portugal, present and future, entrepreneurs and workers, we all suffer from this. This is a hypothetical budget for the political solution of management, sacrificing the country. The government is frugal to entrepreneurs and businesses. Our government! It is enough to check what is being done in other countries of the European Union also in the process of budgetary debate. The overwhelming majority, either more right, centre or left, has in their budgets temporary measures to increase tax benefits for investment and job creation while the extraordinary tax credit expires in Portugal at the end of the first half of 2021. In Portugal, where the shortage of measures for companies is alleged, the Government of Portugal shall, of course, respond: « They are not in the budget, they are in the European funds, the Recovery Fund and others ». It is the same as saying that there are no measures or that, if there are, it is as if there were not, because no one knows when the Recovery Fund will come or how much it will be possible to execute in 2021, how and what. Companies and jobs cannot wait. We can't live forever waiting for what's urgent to be solved in here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u130	And as far as it goes, Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, the State budget dissipates: the reduction of autonomous taxation, which is not for all companies; the VATucher for the housing and restoration sectors, which, by the contours of the measure and the representativeness of the sectors which it intends to cover, is scarce and for only three months—this measure is far from signing a strong response to reduce the difficulties of this sector— and even the specific programme for the Algarve, a national design announced by the President of the Republic here announced in July, is still to be presented and does not appear in the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u131	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u132	Meanwhile, all over the world, companies define, spread unemployment and in certain regions, such as the Algarve, is witnessing a flood of bankruptcy and brutal job destruction, a region that, at no time, is at risk of becoming a heap of debris. The country is in an unprecedented breakdown and the government is obviously not guilty of that failure. Yes, the government is guilty of failing to keep its word and of doing little to mitigate this socially cruel and economically unnecessary outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u133	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u134	To COVID-19 joins the Government. Companies may not support such a combination of adversity. [[PSD applause.]] The government has to give signs to companies and not words. It is this hope that the government does not give, because companies, installed capacity, have to survive so that, when time comes, it is possible to have a faster recovery and better employment, better pay and with added value. But not only does the government support or support insufficiently, but it also punishes and imposes costs that weaken companies. We all want better employment, but today, as important as that is to have employment, it is to preserve it, it is to create conditions for companies to survive and not make their position more unsustainable than it already is. This is not resolved by preventing companies from restructuring, but by helping them resist. By unwise decisions, we do not prejudice the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises or the survival of jobs. We do not apply the death penalty to them. There's a big political difference. The PSD believes in the best energies of society, in the role of companies as a recovery engine and in a country that knows how to balance the present and the future. And this future is only achieved with companies that create more value and better employment. in this flood we face, that nothing refuses to care for people, but much more is done to survive companies and to create an atmosphere in which others are born and prosper. That's not what this budget is about. Companies are missing in combat.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u136	This is a budget that Siza misses and Pedro Nunes too much. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u137	Having no requests for clarification, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for a State Budget submitted by the Government to Parliament reaffirms the health and the National Health Service as political priorities, reflecting the financial choices for the country. We have already stated that the Portuguese are not wrong. at a time when the National Health Service is tested hard every day, when facing an unprecedented pandemic in the last 100 years, those who choose to vote against this Budget do so for one of two reasons: because they have long preferred to seek another model of health system or because they decided to give up improving public health services. Certainly none of these are our choice, because none of them serves the interests of the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not give up improving the National Health Service in the future, as we have not done in the past. It was not to give up on what we believe that so many of us have made the difficult way of approving the new Health Bases Law. I recall that, between 2015 and 2020, the initial appropriations of the National Health Service had an average annual reinforcement of 6 %, which reversed the trend of previous decline and allowed the expenditure of the National Health Service to increase by around 2300 million euros. This growth resulted mainly in investment in health professionals, which justified an increase in expenditure of almost EUR 1200 million, an investment in more health professionals that allowed the SNS to have more than 20 884 professionals in September 2020 than in December 2015, of which only 5459 had been hired since December 2019. But it was also an investment in better working conditions for these health professionals, because the 140 882 health professionals currently working in the SNS are no longer subject to wage reductions, reductions in overtime pay and uncomfortable hours, the imposition of 40 hours a week or the freezing of their careers. The 140 882 health professionals currently working in the SNS were able to see, even in the previous legislation, the effort of the creation of the special career of pre-hospital emergency technician, the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician and the pharmaceutical career; the effort of opening progression competitions in the medical career, with 400 seats for senior graduate assistant and 2400 places for the degree of consultant; and, by 2020, recently, the effort of opening the competition for more than 900 promotion vacancies in the career of superior diagnostic and therapeutic technician. What is this but investment in the careers of health professionals?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u140	It was an investment in people to serve people better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the result was visible in the care activity carried out by the National Health Service in 2019. In primary health care, where more than 9, 5 million enrolled in primary health care had a family doctor assigned, more than 8, 8 million had a family nurse assigned and more than 31, 5 million medical consultations were provided. In hospitals, where external consultations increased by about 2 % and surgical interventions exceeded, for the first time, 700 thousand. In integrated continuous care, where the number of admission beds grew 5, 4 %, totaling more than 9000 beds, and the care of patients increased 3, 7%; likewise, in palliative care, the number of patients admitted to the network increased by about 8% and three additional intra-hospital support teams were created in palliative-pediary care. The year 2020 brought the start of the new legislation and a State budget that grew to EUR 941 million compared to the previous year, creating the conditions for implementing the new Health Bases Act. But the international public health emergency, resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, delayed the implementation of planned measures. The virtue of the Portuguese health system is based on an SNS, mostly tax-funded, with predominantly public provision and tends to be free of charge at the contact point, which enabled it to adjust to the dynamics of new needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One year ago, the SNS 24 line attended an average of 3,500 calls; today, it serves an average of 17 500. One year ago, non-presence care accounted for 30% of non-emergency medical consultations in primary health care; today, they represent 56%. One year ago, the number of fans in the SNS was 1142 ; today, it is 1889. One year ago, the placement of adult intensive care beds at level III was 463 ; today, it is 570, in a flexible capacity that has an ongoing reinforcement plan of more than 200 beds. A year ago, who did not have his status as a regular resident did not have a number of SNS users; today, all those who demonstrate that they have initiated their legalization process can get a number of users. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The SNS has demonstrated resilience, and will continue to do so with new answers. In 2021, the SNS budget will be strengthened by EUR 1210 million in comparison with the initial budget of the previous year, which means EUR 805 million more in relation to the Supplementary Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u142	Its implementation will be a demanding exercise in a complex economic context. But the priorities of government action remain: qualification of access; motivation of professionals; investment in the National Health Service network. Therefore, we will continue the phased elimination process of moderate rates, with its dispensation also in the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy prescribed in primary and performed health care abroad, which, together with the options already taken in 2020, will have an impact of 94 million euros of loss of revenue. Therefore, we will continue to offer a career in the SNS to all the newly-specialist doctors that we formed and that in 2021 we estimate that it is 1700. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will discuss the possibility of increasing, for the second time, financial incentives for disabled medical vacancies and the possibility of entering into indeterminate employment contracts with doctors who did not have access to specialized training. Therefore, we will continue to strengthen the health workforce, with the net hiring of 4200 professionals for the SNS and 260 for the National Institute of Medical Emergency, according to the established schedule. Therefore, we will continue to promote the organization of work in family health units and integrated responsibility centers, associating incentives to performance results. Therefore, we will continue to invest in the safety conditions of health professionals, in particular by recognizing their work in the first line of combating the pandemic with the allocation of an extraordinary subsidy. Therefore, we will continue the investment program in the National Health Service, which has already allowed the Integrated Paediatric Hospital of the Hospital Center of São João, the Emergency Service of the Hospital Center of Tondela-Viseu, the new linear accelerators of the Hospital Center and University of Coimbra to leave the role, allowing the construction process of the new Central Hospital of Alentejo and the launch of the contest for the construction of the new Hospital of Proximity of Sixtal also take place in 2021. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also maintain mental health as a political priority of the legislature, giving continuity to the implementation of the National Mental Health Plan, with 19 million euros of initial investment, in an unprecedented effort. Many of the choices that this Budget reflects result from a journey with those we could always count on to defend the National Health Service. In the choices that are not here, they separate us time and not mode, at a time when the priority is to overcome the pandemic. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have ahead of us the most demanding days of our lives. This is the time for us to be together, for COVID patients and non-COVID patients, for health professionals, for confidence in science, for the fight against fear and intolerance. That's what's expected of us, that's what the SNS expects of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u143	In order to request clarification from the Minister, 11 were registered. Members and the indication given to the Bureau was that the Minister will answer in two groups, one first of five Members and one second of six Members. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, the starting point of this State Health Budget is inevitably the pandemic crisis, which is no longer an unexpected one today. We knew that, without confinement, that no one wanted, and with the arrival of autumn-winter, the probability of increasing contagions was great, and so has happened; that there would be an increasing number of hospitalizations, either hospital admissions, or in ICU (intensive care unit), which has actually happened. We know that there are non-COVID consultations, examinations and surgeries to be carried out, which is recognized in the text of the State Budget and in reality, to which are added the waiting lists that already existed before and which far exceed the maximum response times. It was to this, Mr. Minister, that government action and the State budget should give an answer. On the 21st of September, on the eve of autumn, the Minister presented the autumn-winter plan, totally centered on the SNS, in an unconsolidated version, which also ended up never being consolidated, and of which, in fact, we never heard again. The numbers are increasing and we have never heard of Mr. State Secretaries who had under their responsibility the regional coordination of the evolution of pandemic numbers. They'll probably be busy with other things. It now presents the State Budget, which, on pages of the executive summary, says that there is an increase of EUR 200 billion, in others, ahead, there is an increase of 468, but what is the fact is that the table that refers to the transfers from the State Budget to the SNS shows us that the increase, this year, is zero, and is zero in the year of COVID. Then, here, we have had this cartel of the graphics, with quite creative scales—and forgive me the incision, in a government that so much appreciates the digital transition, perhaps, it would not be bad time to project the graphics on large screens, because we cannot see and, after all, we are here in an anachronism, but we must also not see, because this is something between you and the Block and, therefore, it is probably not to see anything—to tell us that, since 2015 there has been an increase of 17% of the health professionals, but they are never serious about telling us that there was a change of assembly, which was 35 hours, and they never tell us that many of these professionals have connections and no hirings and that we now, in fact, we have fewer doctors in the system than we had in January, because the competition of specialists or the general and family medical contests are too late. The State budget only speaks in the SNS and everything is very right. One day, Mr. Secretary of State Serra Lopes comes to tell us that this is the way we are to rest because the SNS is elastic and, five days later, the Minister comes to tell us - that the situation is coming close to the limit - and guess why - because the SNS is not elastic. What are the consequences that you have taken away from this gravity? Mrs. Minister, where is the promised task force for the non-COVID response? When, on day 4, we reach this limit on the ability to enter, what are you going to do? Are you going to set up tents at the hospital entrance? But if, above all, 20% of health professionals are infected or in prophylactic isolation, who will take care of people in these stores? Where is a national integrated management plan of the entire health system, including private and social, for no one to stay behind? And, Madam Minister, I know, as the Minister knows, that there were really no contacts to make this contractualization. at this moment, Mrs. Minister, there is no plan, there is no coordination and, in each hospital, it is the salvation of anyone who can. And the State budget, in the opinion of the CDS, does not bring a complete solution. As long as you do not operate the system in an integrated and specialized way, the budgetary control variable is people's health. And I say this in a very simple way: as there is no more money and the solution is only within the SNS, the only chance is to put people on hold. The government’s reluctance to decide will be paid with people waiting for health care, either on lists or outside of them. This is not our choice in the CDS, public policy or budgetary policy. And I remember that every day that passes, every day that the government does not decide, there are 5500 people left without consultation. This would also give the Minister of Finance a nice chart here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u145	You now have the floor to ask for clarification on behalf of the PS, Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u146	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Health, we are now in a complex context and we all have a responsibility to respond to the needs and problems of the Portuguese people. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is essential! It is essential as an instrument of response to people, families and businesses, and it is not mere rhetoric! As we all remember, this crisis has caught up in the unwary world. But Portugal was able to count on our SNS, which had been strengthened by the PS Government and the left-wing majority, which approved the previous Budgets and defended its strengthening of means. Of course, this was essential to respond to the first phase of the pandemic, to have more personal protective equipment, fans, laboratories, vaccines, and we get more health professionals. It is these health professionals who, with their dedication, take care of people and save them. And what are some of them doing now? They ignore this difficult situation and want to jeopardize this path. The Portuguese will not understand this, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you will not understand those who will turn their backs on the reinforcement of the SNS, you will not understand those who, in this budget, will fail them and will vote against them! Take off this path is not to defend the SNS. on the right, we were expecting it, we already know the revenues of the PSD, the CDS and the other parties who have now joined the right in our Parliament. But the Left Block chose to return to the difficulties and, therefore, to the country. Although it separates solutions from left-wing governments from right-wing solutions, we do not understand this situation. And it's not enough to protest, it's necessary to contribute to solutions. We do not forget the starting point in 2015 when the SNS budget had annual expenditure below the 2010 level of EUR 906 million. We do not forget that there were those who had reduced their spending on health in such a way that it represented even stronger austerity than the contraction of total public expenditure. This has always been done by the right-wing governments, I repeat, always by the right-wing governments! Who has always supported the SNS and the strengthening of the health service was the PS and the governments supported by the left. That is what we want with this Budget, the continuity of this path. The PS reversed the backlog that was made in the National Health Service by the right governments. And in this State budget for 2021, we have reached a value of EUR 12 100 million for health. It is therefore wrong for those who do not want to value everything that has been done, who prefer not to compromise with these solutions, which are also in support of the economy and employment. Of course, we don't comply with what is yet to be done. We must therefore continue to work towards these objectives. It is this Budget that will allow improvements in primary health care, mental health and greater capacity to respond to the pandemic. And it's not just this budget. We must remember that we have more instruments to support the National Health and Health Service. I want to conclude by referring to the Recovery and Resilience Programme, which has important funds for health, worth EUR 1038 million, therefore a bet on the continuity of priority to health. Anyone who wants to be with the National Health Service and cares about improving the response given to Portuguese has to support this Budget. And that is what we expect: to continue to make the way for us to provide better health care to the Portuguese, which is what the Portuguese expect of us and this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u147	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, the solution to combat the pandemic, recover the delays in the provision of health care and ensure the proper follow-up of all users is the National Health Service and do not push the provision of care for private groups, who are setting up, together with the right parties, a gigantic campaign to discredit the SNS, with the sole aim: to increase the profits at the cost of the health of users. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u149	And the way to not contribute to this campaign is due to the urgent strengthening of the SNS with concrete solutions. One of the priorities is to strengthen the number of health professionals. The government is talking about the hiring of 4200 workers, but, we remember, this was the number that had been planned even before the pandemic. With the pandemic, needs have increased; so insisting on the 4200 is not enough. The question that I leave you is whether or not you are committed to hiring more workers to ensure that user care is actually provided. Another question relates to the following: the competition for the hiring of doctors for intensive care, which is positive, but we are talking about hiring people who are already in the National Health Service, is not an increase. Therefore, it strengthens on one side, but then it is necessary to take the measures so that these services do not become fragile. What guarantees is there an effective increase in the number of workers? The government has made a mockery of numbers. The timing with which the Government has committed itself does not correspond to the discussion with the CFP. It is important to link workers with a precarious bond, which should cover all workers in this situation, as we propose. But we cannot consider as new contracts the hiring of workers who are already in the National Health Service. So, once again, we ask: what guarantees does it give that the contracts it refers to are even those of new workers to be added? How many doctors, nurses, technicians, technical assistants and health technical assistants will be effectively added, considering that there are a large number of health professionals who are in a position to retire within a short period of time and that the entries are not filling out the exits, particularly with regard to doctors? For example, in the last contest of general and family medical doctors there were more candidates than vacancies, but the final result was that 125 vacancies remained to be filled. The question arises again: what measures does the Government intend to take to fix professionals in the SNS? It is necessary to value professionally, socially and remunerably health professionals so that they want to stay in the National Health Service. It is not with four-month contracts which guarantee working conditions but with rights and stability. For example, we propose the valorization of workers who provide care in the National Health Service, through the allocation of a remuneration supplement, not as the Government proposes, only for some, but for all workers in the National Health Service. It is necessary to value and dignify careers, ensure working conditions, move forward towards the implementation of exclusive dedication. What commitments does the Government make in this regard? In the State budget we do not see a single line on this. We live with a public health problem and in its intervention, either in the State Budget that was presented, there is no concrete measure to strengthen public health teams. The public health structure urgently needs to be strengthened, to have the capacity to intervene quickly and effectively. So we ask: will you hire nurses and environmental health technicians to strengthen these teams? Are you going to hire non-differentiated doctors for these teams, enabling them to actually do their specialized medical training in this area? Is the Government available to ensure the payment of the supplement due to the exercise of the functions of the health authority? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u150	You now have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, the year of 2021 will be a year without equal and will be the year of the greatest challenge in the life of the National Health Service. Unfortunately, the government's proposed budget does not meet the current requirements nor the needs of the National Health Service. We know that in 2021 the SNS has to continue to fight the epidemic—as it has done—and it is growing. But we also know that you have to maintain your programmed activity capacity, because you cannot stay at the doors of hospitals and health centers users who need health care not related to COVID-19. And we know that you have to recover millions of consultations, surgeries and exams that have not been carried out during 2020. You have to do all this and the government should give the SNS the resources to do it. Unfortunately, it does not, because it is not announcing the same investments that were already in previous budgets that increased the resources of the National Health Service for the year 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u153	It is not providing for a transfer of more 0, 03 % to the National Health Service that will meet the challenges of 2021, it is not announcing the hiring of workers who are already in the National Health Service that will increase the response capacity of this same National Health Service and is not refusing the autonomy of contracting institutions, refusing the creation of professional careers, refusing the valorization of the professionals of the National Health Service that we will provide resources to SNS. The Minister said that the pandemic delayed the implementation of some measures. Even we think it's the same. However, the Government's budget has removed several measures which have already been included in previous budgets, such as exclusivity. This is not because of the pandemic, it is because of the budget proposal that the government has brought to this House. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u154	Not giving the National Health Service the resources that are needed is — and everyone knows that — to end up transferring more and more resources to the private. Do not give the National Health Service the resources that the National Health Service needs — and everyone knows that — drain the resources to transfer them to the private sector. That is to give up the National Health Service, that is to give up our public health service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u155	Uninvestment in people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u156	With this budget, and this is the issue that it is important to answer, how does the Government think to respond to whom it has been waiting for months to access a medical board? How does the Government feel about responding to who can't contact its health centre? Saying that it will increase the transfer to SNS by 0, 03 %? Oh, my God! It's a little bit! With this budget, how does the Government feel about responding to the increase in the pandemic or to the SNS professionals who are with millions of extraordinary hours of work behind their backs and who say "we urgently need reinforcements in order to manage the ship"? Is it announcing, again and always, the hiring of the same people who are already in the National Health Service? Oh, my God! I don't think that's the answer. Unfortunately, with this budget proposal, the SNS will not have the resources for the huge challenge of 2021. Unfortunately, with this budget proposal, what will happen is a huge transfer of resources to the private sector. The Block will obviously not give its vote on this strategy, but, if the Government is still available for alternatives, the Block is, and has, that alternative. [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u157	To conclude this round of questions, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, Portuguese are living in dramatic times. COVID-19 has already taken thousands of human lives. The increase in mortality in our country is confirmed and confirmed by the reports of the National Institute of Statistics. According to official INE data, 7474 deaths were recorded above the average of the homologous period of the last five years from March 2 to October 4. Almost 7500 dead, however, only 2018 resulted from the COVID-19. This means that in only 7 months of this year more than 5456 people died in Portugal than in the same period of the last five years without being infected by SARS-CoV-2. Yesterday, the government decided to declare November 2 as a day of national mourning in memory of the victims of the COVID-19 pandemic. He did well in honoring the deceased, but the tribute is only valid if the country knows the true causes of the increase in the number of deaths and questions whether it is due to demographic ageing, weather conditions, health care failures caused, or not, by the COVID-19 pandemic or refusals to access the SNS. Mrs. Minister, it is essential to know the truth. Therefore, I ask you if you are really interested in knowing the real reasons for the increase in mortality in our country this year, and act quickly to prevent the gross errors that have been occurring again. In the last two weeks, the number of patients with COVID-19 admitted to SNS hospitals nearly doubled: it increased from 877 to almost 1700, in a universe of 2120 beds affected by COVID-19, representing a occupancy rate of about 80 % and in many cases even over 90 %. In the past, the Minister admitted that by the next week the number of patients with COVID-19 hospitalized could rise to 2634 — no longer to mention the severity of 434 patients being hospitalized in intensive care, which means an increase of almost 60 % compared to the date of previous. The fact is that the government has said, and has repeated, that the SNS would have more than 17,000 beds that could also have received CVID-19 patients, but never warning that many of these beds are already occupied by other hospitalized patients. What I ask you, Minister, is if you know how many of the 17 000 beds are currently effectively vague, i.e., available to be potentially affected to patients with COVID-19. The Minister said that the new Algarve hospital would no longer be a mirage. It happens that, in the proposed State Budget Bill for 2021, the new Algarve hospital remains a mirage, and I don't know if it will be a mere hallucination. Madam Minister, I ask you if you can give us a reason — that it is not insulting to the seaweeds — that nothing is included in the 2021 budget on the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve, because one year ago the construction of the hospital ceased to be a mirage and today in the budget proposal, it is a real omission. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u159	You now have the floor to respond to these requests for clarification, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we understand: on the one hand, we are told that we do not invest in the private sector; on the other hand, we are told that we invest more in the private sector. In fact, I think there is a lot of confusion here that does not benefit anyone, or perhaps some. Turning to what is concerned: all health systems — Portugal is no exception — have faced what is called « deprogramming of activity ». Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members read the international communication, read about the evolution of health systems in other countries, so they easily see this. The preparation for the pandemic forced the suspension of care activity. [[Right now, the speaker displayed a map.]] I know that the letter from this map is small and that the map is even smaller... The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs asks me to say that all the graphics will be made available at the end, in their own form. But this is a map that you can find on the website of the World Health Organization and the European Monitoring Centre for Health Systems and Policies, which actually shows what each country has done in the first phase of the pandemic in terms of disprogramming care activities. All had to make this path, which way we sought to surround during the months in which the pandemic was smoother. That is why we invested in the National Health Service not in the Budget for 2021, but in the Supplementary Budget. And that is why, in the Supplementary Budget, we have affected a significant amount of additional activity by the professionals of the National Health Service, within the National Health Service! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This additional activity is being carried out by inexhaustible professionals, who have had the ability to do what seems to be so difficult for you to understand and which is actually a difficult exercise, which is flexible bed management. This is how every day lives in hospitals, ensuring that each patient has the best response, with the available means, to meet their clinical requirement. It was this circumstance that allowed the deviation, in the face of the accumulated homologous period, in terms of medical consultations of primary health care, to be progressively approaching. If it is true that, in May, we had a deviation from the homologous period, one million and four hundred thousand primary health care consultations in 31 million, we now have a deviation of 620,000 primary health care consultations in the same period. It's a lot, I know, but we keep working to improve this situation, and we rely on health professionals. In terms of hospital activity, I would like to tell you that, despite all the difficulties, the provisional data of the effort we made with the Economic and Social Stabilization Program, with investment in additional activity — the same is said in the payment per piece to the health professionals of the SNS who have made themselves available to collaborate in the recovery of unprogrammed activity — already allow us to verify that 6160 surgeries and 12,189 consultations were carried out in additional activity. But still, we need to do more, and that is why we never deny recourse to other sectors, when our hospitals, those who accuse themselves of lack of autonomy, need to resort to the private and social sectors. I am therefore going to show you again — it seems difficult to see — the standard clause for accession to the agreement between ARS and private entities, which allows our institutions to resort to the private sector and the social sector, as they are doing. And they are doing good and will always do good as long as they respond to the care needs of the patients! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, public spending on health has increased, but private expenditure continues to represent 26 % of our efforts. Of course, our goal is to internalize the answers and of course we do it, not by ideological prejudice, but because we believe that this responds better to Portuguese and Portuguese. But from here to there, we will continue to use the other sectors of activity in addition. In reply to Mr Moisés Ferreira, I will say that it compensates the Government to answer the questions that are put to it as it has always done: with full dedication. With the same full dedication that he used when I took to the Council of Ministers an exceptional system of hiring health professionals that allows each institution to hire them directly while this situation lasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the same full dedication that he responded when I gave the Council of Ministers the need to purchase Remdesivir medicine, worth EUR 35 million. With the same full dedication you agreed to invest in the purchase of a vaccine, which will be estimated at EUR 130 million. Or with the same full dedication you took to pay EUR 60 million for all terms the invasive ventilation equipment that, for years and years, was not possible to buy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, there is much to do, and this is a moment of enormous difficulty, when many things will remain to be executed in the Budget for 2021. But we are acting quickly and believe that, in order to act quickly, it is essential to know the truth, and the truth is that of this Budget: an investment in public services in the conviction that they are the best serving Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u161	Let's move on to the second round of clarification requests. You have the floor by the PCP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u162	Mr President, Minister of Health, the situation in primary health care today is very worrying. When we should be walking in the sense of assigning, to each of the Portuguese, doctor and family nurse, we are precisely enlarging the line of those who do not have a doctor and a family nurse. in this budget, we have not seen a response to this great difficulty, which is to assign physicians and nurses of the family, which compromises the main route of access to the National Health Service. It makes no sense for newly admitted general and family medicine doctors to be allocated to the COVID-19 structures without having been assigned a list of users. We understand that a list of users should be assigned to them to combat precisely these rows of users who do not have a doctor and a family nurse. in this sense, how many doctors are in these conditions, without being assigned a list? As for the reduction of consultations in primary health care, Mrs. Minister, telephone contacts can never replace a face-to-face consultation and have its importance. It is not through telephone contacts that consultations are recovered late. It is necessary to reopen the numerous health extensions, as a fundamental element of guaranteeing the care of proximity to populations, and it is necessary to create conditions for telephone calls to be attended in health centres, providing them with adequate human resources and technical means. It is also essential that users who wait hours outside the health centre, cold, wind and rain, have conditions of comfort and dignity. So, Minister, the question I ask you is: what guarantees does the Government have that this budget can respond to these urgent and necessary measures? The suspension of the programmed activity led to the postponement of consultations, surgeries and treatments, creating, today, an absolutely desperate situation for those who need them. This suspension clearly represents a lack of care for the population and is a business opportunity for private institutions in the health sector. It is necessary to equip the SNS to recover everything that has been lost. The fight against cancer is an example. It is necessary to track and diagnose the many cases that are about to be identified and to accompany patients with chronic diseases that decompensate, creating more and more new needs. Will the government provide the SNS with human resources and means to respond to the urgent and necessary recovery of all acts that have remained unanswered? The national network of integrated and palliative continuous care does not meet the needs of the population, but rather those of the IPSS who apply for financial support for its creation and management. Will the government provide thousands of missing beds on the network, creating a necessary public response that does not exist? In palliative care, will the government put teams on the ground and provide hundreds of beds in the new public boarding units? What about mental health, Minister? Oh, my God! Mental health has never had an investment in order to respond to the real needs of the population. It is necessary, Madam Minister, that prevention of mental illness is a reality at the level of primary health care. We need community mental health teams that are not only pilot projects, but that are effectively equipped with professionals to work on the ground. Is the government going, once and for all, to invest in mental health, finally implementing the National Program for Mental Health? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u163	You have the floor to ask for clarification by the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the National Health Service faces one of the greatest challenges of all time. Despite the concerns of the present and despite the difficulties, it should be stressed that the SNS met this gigantic challenge of response to the epidemic, but who truly accuses fatigue are the health professionals. What really accuses wear and frailty are the few means available in hospitals and health centres. Yes, the success of the SNS is due, above all, to the strengthening of its professionals, who have to be valued in wages, with access to risk allowance, with career progression and with effective links, rather than perpetuating precariousness. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, we cannot fail to ask you what is the Government's strategy to gain the confidence of health professionals— doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and other professionals of the National Health Service—to effectively choose to stay in the National Health Service, because their work is recognized and their rights are respected. Another problem that is identified is that of the inadequacy of public health services. These were already insufficient before the epidemic, but this has become loud today. The question is simple, Mrs Minister: is the strengthening of the human resources, especially of public health doctors, planned for this year or not? The response of the National Health Service cannot only be an efficient response to COVID-19. It is necessary to continue to be a response to the various diseases that have not been cancelled with the virus. We are particularly concerned about the situation of primary health care. Why is the solution, in the present, to force users, many of them elderly, to wait at the door of health centres, under improvised tellers or outdoors, subject to weather, low temperatures, rain and wind? We could not understand how so many sectors have been able to adapt and only health centers have not yet adapted. It is urgent for health centres to be able to accommodate all users who need primary care. It is urgent for people to be able to wait for their consultation in a safe and comfortable way. You just need to be pushed into the window, into the window, into the digital media that don't dominate and to the private sector that can't pay! So, Mrs Minister, I ask you: when will the reopening of all health centres, with extended hours, with more health professionals and others, and with more human resources? It is necessary today, more than in the past, to remove users from the use of hospital emergencies. It is even necessary, Mrs Minister, that the elderly in particular may feel accompanied by their diseases, in clarifying their doubts and withdrawing from the isolation to which they have been voted since March.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u165	To ask for clarification, you have the floor for the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u166	Mr President, Mrs Health Minister, without denying that there is indeed a path that has been made, we can say that there is still a lot to do, and could list a number of examples. I refer, of course, to health assistant technicians, who in 2008 saw their career being withdrawn and who continue to be treated as operational assistants, when they are specialized technicians. I also refer to, for example, the question of nurses with 18 years of service, who, in paid terms, receive as much as one nurse who just entered. I also refer to the consultations to be left behind, including cancer patients or chronic diseases, as well as persons with disabilities above 60 % who do not have access to the multi-use certificate for suspension of medical boards. Therefore, it could list a number of aspects that still need to be resolved. In particular, until we know that in August, for example, there should have been training for professionals to learn how to deal with new equipment, because equipment does not work alone. I add that we actually have nurses available on the market, but perhaps they are not available for short-term contracts. It seems to us essential that the Minister of Health ensure that the Land of Peace does not hinder the essential subjects to be implemented at this time, in which it was learned from the path made, with a long-term vision for public health policies. in this sense, I would like to ask four very surgical questions, saying first of all the vision of the State Budget regarding the rejuvenation of doctors in the SNS. For us, this vision does not appear in this State budget. We know — the data speak for themselves — that, in a medium-term view, more doctors are going to come out than doctors are going to come in. We also know that the average age of our doctors is over 50 years old, to stop talking to doctors specialists, which would still increase this mean age. Therefore, we would like to know from the outset whether it is available for a rejuvenation plan of the medical class in the National Health Service. Secondly, I am referring to the continuing network of care. The institutions of the continuing care network are very concerned about what is planned in the Budget, since what is proposed to them is that for every million euros in the long run they have to have their own investment of 1.5 million. The State budget speaks of enlargement and we are concerned about the maintenance of the current network. Third aspect: modernisation of communication networks in the SNS. The Minister will know, and we also know, how difficult it is to communicate with primary care services. These communication networks need, in fact, to be reviewed, to be modernised, to be guaranteed digital transition in primary health care, so we would like to know if the government is available to do so. The fourth and final question has to do with risk subsidies for health professionals. The Minister has given us a good sense of the existence of this measure, in fact, already in March the NAP proposed it, but we would indeed like to obtain clarification of this rule, because it seems to us that, in the field of expertise, there should be an opening for this rule to be worked, since it is not clear and, it seems to us, brings here some injustices, including even with health assistants and operational health assistants, or administrative assistants, who also work in the context of COVID-19. It therefore seems essential to us to have this openness in the field of expertise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u167	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs Joana Lima of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u168	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister of Health, Dr. Marta Tepido, listening to Mrs. Minister we all realize that you did not forget that there are some difficulties, but we all realize — the Portuguese at home also realized — the unequal advances that have been made in the National Health Service with the Socialist Government to lead the destinations of Portugal. It's important to make a balance sheet for the last few years. During the period of the economic crisis, the National Health Service was subject to a strong pressure to contain expenditure, in which we all witnessed a strong uninvestment in the SNS with adverse effects for Portuguese. In fact, the right hand must bear in mind in its curriculum this disinvestment during the four years in which it has been in the government and that this stain will not go away. With the entry into office in 2015 of the Socialist Government and with the support of the left, this trend has reversed and started a cycle of financial reinforcement affecting the SNS. This is evidence of the strengthening of the initial SNS appropriations in successive budgets, where there was an average growth of 6 % in the period 2015 - 2020, thus reversing the decline trend between 2010 and 2015. These reinforcements enabled an effective increase in the expenditure of around EUR 2300 million between 2015 and 2020, including that provided for in the State budget proposal for 2021. In the State budget for 2020 there was a reinforcement of more than 900 million euros and about 550 million euros in the Supplementary budget, i.e. a total of around 1500 million euros. As BE and Mrs Catarina Martins will remember, it was a requirement of BE that EUR 900 million be allocated, but, no doubt, the Government of the Republic not only complied with its word as it surpassed that money required by the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But today, we confront ourselves with the vote against the Left Block, pointing out failures in the area of health. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Will these failures be enough for the Bloc to turn its back on Portuguese and vote against the measures that the Portuguese need to face the quality of life, particularly in the area of health? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Not for us! For us, it is imperative, it is important that we vote this State Budget, which will meet the needs of the National Health Service. The proposal we are debating today has an increased budgetary allocation of about EUR 470 million in relation to the previous budget, thus emphasizing the Government's commitment to which the Left Block should look and maintain this commitment, because we want a fairer and more inclusive SNS. This is the motto of the Socialist Party! With this financial reinforcement, the SNS response will be even more intensified. About 8400 health professionals are expected to be recruited in two years and over 4,200 in 2021 and investment in facilities and equipment is planned. And here I want to highlight the investment in the new pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, which is almost completed, for which we inherited a piece of procedure—but the right, which so much talked about in this work, was silent forever. [[PSD laughter.]] No, nobody shut up with us! We take the files to the end until we can finish the works. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There are a number of situations that could be listed, but the Minister has already mentioned them, as well as Mrs Hortense Martins and others here on this bench. We will always vote in favour of the Government's proposals, because, indeed, they are important, so that we can have a stronger government and a more capable Portugal. The Portuguese know they can count on the Socialist Party! Madam Minister, I cannot but ask you a question about health professionals. We have heard that, on the right and on the left, there are fewer health professionals, who have not increased the number of health professionals in the SNS. Now, I wanted to ask if the health professionals in 2019 are the same as 2020, or if there was an increase in this area. And I would also like to ask you what expenditure is planned for the SNS in human resources. Finally, I ask you whether this forecast of increase of professionals helps meet the needs to restore the programmed activity that ended up being suspended due to increased responses to COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u169	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u170	Mr President, Minister of Health, one of the key issues that arises when we discuss this Budget is the question of investment and in particular of investment in the SNS. Investment in the SNS, in the construction of new hospitals and in the modernization of others, in the replacement of obsolete equipment and its modernization, in addition to repair and maintenance operations, which is absolutely imperative to ensure, are essential measures for the Budget to respond to the needs of the SNS and to strengthen its response capacity. The budget should include investment funds that do not leave room for doubts about this objective of strengthening the SNS, but it is also essential that the Government clarify its options regarding the decisions that need to be made. It is necessary to know which commitments will be made by the Government as regards investments in buildings, including construction and expansion of hospitals, such as the central hospital of Alentejo, the hospital of Seixal, the motherhood of Coimbra, the new hospital of the West, the central hospital of Algarve, the hospital of Póvoa of Varzim and Vila do Conde, the hospital of Barcelos, the extension of the hospital of Beja, the reconstruction of the Pavilion 5 and the second phase of the hospital of Sousa Martins, in Guarda. It is necessary that this budget, in addition to the funds, give guarantees of how and when these funds will be executed to build these hospitals, which have been so lacking. We need to know what commitment the Government will take on urgent investment measures to recover consultations, treatments and pending surgeries. It is necessary to know which commitments will be made by the Government in terms of investments in equipment and medical devices, guarantees of money and decisions to ensure investments in RX and ultrasounds that can be carried out in health centres, so that hospitals should not be used to carry out these complementary diagnostic tests. Investing in modernization in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy and in the expansion of this capacity in the SNS is a decisive contribution to ending delays in medical examinations and delays in clinical consultations and actions, which need to be recovered. So we ask: what are the commitments made to get all this out of paper and be a reality in 2021? Ms. Minister, Article 183. the budget has as epigraph "Implementation of the Plurianual Investment Plan for the National Health Service and the National Mental Health Plan". What we would like to ask is whether 90 million for primary health care, two hospitals that have been planned for years, 19 million for mental health and 27 million for the continuing care network are a true multi-annual plan of investments in the SNS. Not that we are against these measures, what we demand is that they be accompanied by guarantees of their implementation. But, in the face of today's needs, and in a multi-annual plan, does the Government not consider that the needs of the country require that it go far beyond what is proposed? Mr Minister, the SNS needs more investment, more professionals to be able to continue to be the guarantor of Portuguese health, as has been revealed in this pandemic, needs to be strengthened and needed courage to end the looting of economic groups, and the proposal does not give that answer. The government must place health as a high national priority and provide assurances that investments are even to take forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u171	In concluding the requests for clarification to the Minister of Health, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor, which no longer has his traditional liberal minute, but only a few seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u172	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Minister of Health, I will ask you a quick question about choices, which is the essence of politics. If your Government had not chosen to deliver EUR 1700 million to TAP, if your Government had chosen to deliver EUR 1700 million to its ministry, what would your choice in this scenario be? Did those 1700 million arrive to end delays in consultations, surgeries and exams? Did these 1700 million arrive to end the ranks of elderly people at the door of health centres and to end the delays in the care line SNS 24? Did they arrive to pay and reduce the debts to suppliers and to inject any money on this side of the economy? They arrived to build the central hospital of the Algarve, who disappeared from the Budget? Or would they arrive to anticipate the emergency expansion of Évora's hospital, which starts this week to be ready in March, with luck? What would your choice be, Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u173	In reply, Mrs. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to our commitments, they are very clear and come from behind. As for health professionals, I cannot fail to repeat that the National Health Service has hired more than 20,000 health professionals from the previous legislature to date. And I do not repeat this number for, as we have already been accused of, repeating a mantra, but because, in fact, these numbers are on the sheets of assidus. They are real people, they are health professionals who are there, who have a professional course and who are available to provide health care. If we divide this number by the years of work that the government has taken, we will see that the numbers that now want us to assume as an undertaking are nothing extraordinary, are only the continuation of a path, a path in strengthening the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is naturally quiet that I tell you that yes, that we will have over 4200 health professionals this year and that we will admit over 4200 health professionals next year, and that, yes, I reaffirm that yes, we are looking for the rejuvenation of careers, especially at the level of doctors, and that is why we have opened more vacancies than those that are trained in terms of recent specialists each year, that we are trying to ensure that the competitions take place within 30 days following the approval of the notes, that when we ask for direct contracts we seek to authorize them, that we seek to improve the wages of all, that we seek to improve the increase of additional work and that we have effectively increased. I would like to remind you of a few numbers: in 2015 — sometimes we forget – because time passes quickly –, the lowest monthly salary in the SNS was €505 and now is €635 ; the highest monthly salary was €5211 and today is €5664 ; a doctor who made a 12 hour shift in the emergency service, a senior graduate assistant, on a Saturday night for Sunday, at that time received €171 additional work and today receives €357. This is our investment, these are the numbers, this is what we have put in the investment of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue that was raised on investment, I would like to be very clear: unfortunately, it is not enough to provide for investments in the State budget, but it is also necessary to have the capacity to implement. And we've had difficulties. That is why we have changed some rules, which so much challenge deserved. Those who have never done the work cannot perceive what the procedural difficulties are and judge whenever we are trying to deceive someone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for choices, our choice is clear: it is the SNS. The SNS 24 line has had a call pressure in recent days that exceeds 30 000. And he keeps answering. As regards debts to SNS suppliers, they have never been so low. The National Health Service has tried to resist. And he has managed it, fortunately, because of the excellence of his professionals and leaders, who continue to work hard to respond to Portuguese and Portuguese. That is why we continue to pursue our goals, from then on with the allocation of family doctor to more Portuguese and Portuguese. And, yes, although those enrolled in health centres waiting for the assignment of medical specialist general and family medicine are more, the lists are currently being assigned to the 287 newly hired doctors, who will now begin their function. We hope that at the end of the year, even considering retirements, we will have more than 340 000 Portuguese with a family doctor. Then, we will continue to work in other areas, in hospitals, in intensive care, in the hiring of professionals, in their passage of workers with contract to workers for permanent time, because this is what the SNS does: of a lot of effort, a lot of work, a lot of dedication and we will not turn our backs when it most needs each one of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u175	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now interrupt our work. The Bureau suggests that we start again at 15 hours and 15 minutes if there are no objections. The sitting was therefore suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 35 minutes.]] [[After the interruption, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. [[It was 15 hours and 15 minutes.]] Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government present. You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u177	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a budget that, in health, leaves everyone behind. It does not solve the fundamental problem that we have of family doctors and family nurses, which the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health had said they had resolved. But more serious than that, it leaves behind closed health centres, which remain unanswered, without budget allocation to cope with one of the most difficult times ever. But in terms of health, this budget has a particular feature: it only refers to how many months later the raising of the needs of health professionals, when they spent four years convincing their left-wing partners... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u178	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u179	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, it took four years to convince their left-wing partners that they would solve the problem of lack of resources in the National Health Service. This is the Budget of Hypocrisy... [[PS protests.]] ... because he can look forward without solving the problems of the past and leaves the Portuguese more fragile in the face of the health and pandemic crisis that we live in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u180	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u181	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Portugal is one of the most difficult moments in our recent history. Students, teachers, technicians, families have a sense in schools, higher education institutions and also in their homes. The challenge of isolation, the growth of inequalities, the brutality of the changes to which we have all been subjected put a reality that calls us to a strong and determined response. Since the beginning of the pandemic that public school and higher education have shown us its centrality and resilience in this response. But to say it is also to recognize the ambition of those who want a more capable research and teaching system, in which the path must be made of advances and never retreats. We must have the humility to recognize that we can never make progress as guaranteed and that, instead of discussing increases to public school, there are those who want to discuss cuts for it. Basically, it is important to recognize that there have been advances, with material results, in the education and science system, which have to be marked. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To say that there have been advances is to talk about four absolutely fundamental indicators, which cannot be achieved overnight: it is to say that we have reached the lowest percentage of school dropout in the last year; it is to talk about the 30% reduction in school failure rate since 2015 ; it is to say that since 1996 there have not been so many students entering higher education ; that is to say that the number of researchers per 1000 assets has increased by 30% in the last five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To speak of this path is to speak of a vision of a Portugal of science, culture and knowledge. And it is to recognize that this is a path consistent with the political options supported by the Budget that we have built in the last five years and that we have maintained to 2021 : of investment in the National Programme for the Promotion of School Success; of the linkage of teachers and defrosting careers; of autonomy and curriculum flexibility; of the creation of tutorials; of the strengthening of the number of operational assistants; and of the investment in the freeness of school textbooks at all levels of teaching. It is to be recognized that if we have a higher education with more students today, we must extend the access routes to higher education students; that this is due to a fundamental political option, to enhance the social role of polytechnic higher education. It is to recognize that if there is more accessible higher education today, it is because students pay less than 400 € of tips than they would pay if we hadn't started this path and because there are more scholarships and higher scholarships. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if we also have more researchers, it is because we have made a continuous investment path in the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation), which in the last year has had its largest budgetary implementation of the present; it is because we have posted in the training of researchers and increased the number of doctoral grants by 140 % since 2015 ; it is because we have placed in the dignity of the researcher's figure and have established the contract of work as the rule regime for hiring doctors; it is because we have hired more than 6000 doctors and researchers since 2017. These are political options with real results in the country's life. It is therefore important to say that, in five years of governance, we have increased the education budget by around 25%. I repeat: in five years of government, we have increased the budget for education by around 25%, with this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are figures that speak for themselves and demonstrate an ongoing policy of investment in public education and science that cannot be ignored. in this trailed path, it is essential that we have the ability not to leave work in the middle, that we have the ability to know that there is much way to do and that what moves us is the conviction that only a strong state is the answer for no one to stay behind. Therefore, the choice in voting this State budget is simple and has only two possible meanings: the first, to deepen the path followed in the last five years, or the second, to give up now, when the country needs the most. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The way we respond to the crisis will mark Portugal that we will find when it is over. from the Socialist Party can be certain that we will be where we have always been: in the defense of a strong state and Portugal of education, science, culture and knowledge. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u182	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, the Bureau shall register an application for clarification. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Cláudia André, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been common for us to hear announcements and announcements regarding the whole economic policy of the country, especially with regard to education and science, which are no exception. We're used to it. However, when we see what is the effective expenditure in education — the one that will seek the country's wealth and invest in education — we perceive perfectly, like any student of basic or secondary education, that the evolution of this line, of the line that starts in 2015 and ends in 2019, was not an increase, but a decrease. Its evolution is clear. The speaker displayed a chart. However, we realize that this is a bit of « listen to what I say, do not look at what I do». Every year, we've heard a lot of ads, human resources ads, equipment ads. In particular, I refer to the last announcement that Mr. Prime Minister made in April 2020 and that, we know well, he did not meet in September, however, in October, it is now in November that he will be met: half a dozen computers assigned to some students and then announced « we started distributing computers in November ». Question: Where are the public procurement contests for computer equipment from all computers? More: where is the promised network coverage within the country, where students had to take classes on the street, discovery, with any temperature and in any situation? Question : Where is the reinforcement of the network, where is the negotiation for this to happen? We therefore ask: is this investment, Mr President, to be taken seriously? These ads that you mentioned here are to take seriously? I ask, very sincerely, is this what you will fulfill what you have promised in the last five years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u184	You have the floor to answer, Mr Tiago Estevão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u185	Madam President, Mrs Cláudia André, I have noticed that, so far, the PSD has not talked about science, which I consider to be illustrative. But I would like to point out that what is absolutely illustrative is the fact that the PSD continues to insist on this miracle of oranges.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u186	It's from the computers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u187	It is that the PSD comes here to demand increases for everything at the same time that it accuses the government of spending, but now with an innovation: it is that Mrs Deputies came here to show graphics, but she did not mention a single number, which is absolutely amazing. I'd say more, that you need some bravery, I have to recognize you. There was some PSD daring to come here to "rend the clothes" and say that this budget does not reach education and higher education. And, in this case, as you did not talk about higher education, the total gap on the part of the PSD is even recorded in this debate on this subject. But to say that a budget that increases by 7% education funds is not enough is something that is somewhat different from what was expected. And, worse, it is that in his speech « does not play the boot with the partridge», because this increase of 7% adds to the difference that we have made in public school investment in education. in these years of governance, and with this Budget, we have increased the budget for education by 25%! [[Exactly!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u188	So, Mrs. Member, you don't understand, you don't understand! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But you know why you don't understand? It is that, even by spending much less, the last PSD Government in its last budget spent more than 35% with transfers to private and cooperative education than this State budget spends. This is how you see this love of public school! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I end by saying something that is very clear, and it does not help to show graphs that don't say the source, nor the numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u190	This Budget is like water and oil for a Right Budget. It would be good if, for the first time, the PSD came to this debate to really tell what is coming and that it has, in fact, a different policy for education, because so far nothing has been heard at all. It's a deafening silence! [[PSD protests.]] I therefore conclude by saying that voting against this State budget is against a State budget that increases the education budget by 7%. Our path is very clear and defined—it is one of Portugal's science, culture and knowledge. We are waiting to see that Portugal is the one the PSD wants. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u191	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u192	Mr Adam Silva, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u193	Madam President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u194	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u195	As the Socialist Party Member called into question the truth, the origin and source of these documents... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u196	Mr, this is not an appeal to the Bureau. The Bureau is at the Bureau, not Mr Socialist Party Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u197	Yes, Madam President. I would just like to tell the President that we very much like her to distribute the documents that I will send to the Bureau, so that we do not doubt what our colleague has said. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u198	Yes, sir. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Portugal is at war. We are at war against the COVID-19 virus, which everything razes from health to economics. It is true that no one preceded the pandemic, but the government's mismanagement in the last five years has left us more unprepared than the other European countries to fight this war we are losing. Without controlling the pandemic, we don't save the economy! If, at the beginning of the war against COVID-19, you did not know how to react, there are no excuses today. We know what works: to test massively and systematically; to identify and isolate, in real time, all infected and their contacts. This is very simple, but very important: testing and isolating. The government had a whole summer to prepare for autumn and winter and it didn't. The government just gave up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u200	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u201	Mrs. Health Minister, Marta Fear, why did you give up? I knew I had to invest in public health in order to contact infected and suspicious people in real time. Why did you give up? We warned that the 700,000 € of the Supplementary Budget for Public Health was a drop in an ocean of needs. Why did you give up? He knew that he left more than 1 million Portuguese without access to a family doctor and now put these doctors on the phone to all COVID patients instead of treating patients with other diseases. Why did you give up, Minister? Millions of consultations, thousands of surgeries and additional exams canceled and postponed, millions of people without access to health and it is now, only now, in the middle of the autumn, in the midst of crisis, that begin to think about how they will respond? There is no single action plan or contract signed to activate the private and social sector immediately in an emergency. Why did you give up, Minister? You know, even though we're not in the winter yet, health professionals are already exhausted. Doctors, nurses, pharmacists, senior technicians, administrative assistants are exhausted! They have not prepared the SNS for the moment we are living and neither the prize, which this House has approved, was the government able to pay the professionals! Why did you give up, Minister? Why did you quit the health care professionals? Ms. Minister, she knew there would be an increase in the search for influenza vaccine at this time and now people do not have access to the vaccine, either in health centers or in pharmacy. Why did you give up?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u203	I knew there was a lack of intensive care beds and intensive care professionals. I knew it! He even promised, in May, in this House, that we would have, this winter, 400 more beds with their intensivists, but nothing happened. Why did you give up? I knew that in order to win the war against COVID-19, it is necessary to move from defense to attack, everything needs to be done to avoid new cases. Since there is no effective treatment or vaccine, the only thing that works is to do: test and isolate. And this isn't happening! Why did you give up, Minister? But also to Mrs. Minister of Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho, I ask the same question: why did you give up? The homes are the main focus of mortality by COVID-19 and the truth is that the elderly living there feel abandoned. The government then decided to set up response brigades for outbreaks, one per district, which did not prevent it. instead of preventing the virus from entering the homes, it happens that the virus enters, infects all residents and only then the government decides to act. Why did you give up, Minister? It is estimated that we have over 35 000 elderly Portuguese citizens living in illegal homes. Eight months back from the beginning of the pandemic, the Ministry of Social Security has not even managed to map these homes, where these elderly people are absolutely unprotected. Why did you give up, Minister? at a time when the economic crisis pushes thousands of Portuguese towards poverty, instead of strengthening existing social response mechanisms, it decided to create even more programmes, more bureaucracy, basically, to create more delays in access to the help of those who need it most. A help people need today, not from here 8 or 10 months. Why did you give up, Minister? [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] Mr. Minister of Infrastructure, Pedro Nuno Santos, why did you give up? Why did you assume the role of government negationist saying that public transport is not a place of potential contagion of the COVID-19?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u204	He doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u205	All scientific evidence is clear and demonstrates that this risk exists. It is simply understood that you do not want to invest what is necessary to protect people. Why did you give up, Minister? [[PSD applause.]] I ask the same to the Minister of Economics, Pedro Siza Vieira : why did you give up? This is a time that demands the protection of jobs. The year 2021 must be a year of creating new jobs. We need more jobs and those who create jobs are businesses. These are the same companies that generate wealth to distribute and are also the taxes of the companies that help pay the National Health Service. But the government presents us with a budget that does not support companies; on the contrary, the government has made a proposal for a State budget for 2021 which is against companies. And so too, the PSD can only vote against this proposal for a State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u206	I wanted to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u207	In the biggest crisis of our lives, the government chose the year 2021 to suck companies up to the tutan. They keep the tax burden,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u208	Do you keep the tax burden? It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u209	... require the return of all support received in the context of COVID and are ‘zero’ the support for competitiveness. In fact, the government simply gave up its businesses, gave up in an act of faith, waiting for the money coming from Europe and for it to do what this Budget will not do. They have given up and are now waiting for a European miracle that will not happen. Why did you give up business, Minister? And on this path, I ask Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva: why did you give up? If it is true that we need more employment immediately, we must ensure the conditions for our economy to generate better economy and better employment. More qualified, well-remunerated employment which contributes to the economy with greater added value. [[PS protests.]] To that end, we need our companies to invest in new markets and in creating new value chains. And what did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do, responsible for economic diplomacy? They cut the funds of AICEP ( Portugal's Investment and Foreign Trade Agency ), the investment agency that could help companies do that! Why did you give up, Minister? [[PSD applause.]] At the end of the day, the management of this crisis shows that the government has given up as a whole. And, therefore, I ask: Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, why did you give up? [[PS laughter.]] Why did the Prime Minister decide to leave the Portuguese at the time when they most needed a leadership government?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u211	When the Prime Minister gives up the country, all ministers give up with him. But we, Portuguese, are not going to give up! We can't give up! If we cannot count on this government, then let us do everything to win this war, despite this government. We will be the Portuguese anonymous citizens, the soldiers on the ground who, even without the generals of this government, will do everything to crush the COVID-19! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Let's not wait until they tell us what to do, let's not wait for the phone call that's not coming.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u212	Cancel everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u213	Let's take the future by our hands, let's test and isolate! Every time one of us gets infected and we decide to stay home, we're not giving up. Every time we have a contact with someone who's infected and we've decided to stay isolated, we're not giving up. Every time a child of ours gets sick and we decide not to send him to school, we're not giving up. Every time we make a difficult decision to move away with our children, our parents and grandparents to protect them from the virus, we are not giving up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u214	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u215	As a people, we turn from defense to attack. We will save our future, our parents, our grandparents, our children. We can't give up! We're not giving up! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u216	For an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we decide here who fights for the country and for the people and who lowers his arms and gives up fighting. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Continuing to fight implies building solutions and not only presenting problems, in a permanent dialogue space to find solutions for people. I would like to ask Mr Baptista Leite and the PSD if they gave up on the seriousness and responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In times of uncertainty we go through, the discussion of the Budget gains even more relevance. In addition to the development of the programme lines for the future of the country, what is now at stake is the definition of the strategy of response to the effects of the crisis: an unprecedented crisis, which challenges our collective capacity — in Portugal, Europe and the world — to face challenges of incomparable magnitude. In addition to controlling a pandemic, we must be able to strengthen our social contract. For this, we need to continue to protect people and relaunch the economy. The proposal for a State Budget presented by the Government to Parliament is precisely this: to strengthen the social state in its basic mission of being on the side of those who need, when more precise, protecting income and supporting employment. Portugal, after years marked by austerity policies, began a path of recovery of income and employment with the former PS Government. In 2019, the unemployment rate fell to 6, 5 %, as opposed to the values we have already forgotten, of 16, 2 % in 2013, or 12, 4 % in 2015. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] At the beginning of 2020, the minimum wage reached € 635, a value that in very contrast to € 505 of 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u218	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u219	... the longer period of valuation of the minimum wage and the most significant increase of the century. As a country, we made a path of more employment, more work, more valued work, with a lower incidence of workers receiving the minimum wage, with strong active employment policies, with a more dynamic collective hiring. This path is being challenged abruptly by the pandemic situation we are living today. We live times for which no one was prepared, anywhere in the world. From time to time, a pandemic with unforeseen effects put at risk the normal functioning of societies, families, employment, the economy, demanding a strong response by the State in health, education, social protection, employment support, support for families, support for the most vulnerable people, support for businesses. The dimension of demand and response showed the importance of the social state. in a short period of time, multiple measures and extraordinary support were put into practice at various levels. In Portugal, the social state was the first line of response, implementing measures and creating exceptional support to respond to the situations that arose. in these measures, created by the government and implemented by the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, have reached support to 2 million and 200 thousand people and to 150 000 companies at a global value, including contribution exemptions, of EUR 2000 million, so far. The State budget 2021 follows this path of income and family support, employment support, investment support in the skills and protection of the most vulnerable, because we believe and we know that the response to the pandemic crisis we are undergoing is not in austerity, but in economic recovery, based on the protection of workers' incomes and on policies responsible for supporting employment, protecting families and the most vulnerable. This social security budget for 2021 therefore has an additional EUR 1960 million compared to the 2020 budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Politics is not numbers, but numbers translate political options. The growth of the social security budget reflects clear political priorities to ensure support for families, real people, real workers in our country, which the State cannot leave behind. To deny them this support, to leave them out of this network of protection would be to deny our purpose as a society of solidarity, cohesion and justice. This is a budget for the mobilisation of the Republic for the protection of income, for the return to growth and employment support. A budget that creates an extraordinary social benefit designed to protect workers' incomes, a new provision that resulted in a huge dialogue with left-wing parties, which was built to respond to situations that in 2021 will most need this answer and will cover a universe of 258,000 people. This is also a Budget which structurally increases to €504 the minimum value of unemployment benefit and which gives to those who receive the social unemployment benefit an additional supplement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a budget which also includes the extension until December 2021 of support for informal workers in a situation of social disprotection, which was foreseen in the 2020 Supplementary Budget and currently has about 6000 applications. This budget continues to guarantee, on the part of families and the protection of the most vulnerable, 100 % of the casualties per COVID and prophylactic isolation, but also assistance to children under 12 years of age who have to stay in isolation and who currently cover a total of 150 000 people. These are necessary, urgent measures, which must be adopted now, because there are thousands of people who will benefit from them. This is also a Budget which once again reinforces the income of pensioners with lower pensions and which, with this increase that will happen in pensions up to 650 €, from January onwards, will cover 1 million and 900 thousand people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also an Budget which increases social action by EUR 120 million, to strengthen responses to proximity and the social sector and to develop new social responses and equipment that the pandemic has shown, which are really necessary, in addition to ensuring the duplication of the response capacity of the food programme and new responses to people in homeless situations. These are necessary, urgent measures, which have to reach the ground in 2021, because that is why we have a social state and it has been to strengthen it that the left ones have joined in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u221	Can anyone understand that the left, which was able to unite against the advancings of austerity, is divided at the present time? [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're here to be the left who fights for the rest of his life. The social state exists to support those who need it, when needed. And it's now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that's necessary. What this budget needs to promote, structurally, in terms of inclusion; what this budget needs to invest in measures to support job creation and maintenance, but also in support of training and conversion, with a strengthening of the IEFP (Employment and Vocational Training Institute) by 49 %, reaching a record budget of EUR 1300 million, with a special focus on programmes dedicated to young people who were unemployed and who were the first to be affected during the pandemic and also with programmes for the conversion of the unemployed, enabling them to a naturally different and demanding labour market. Now it's necessary. And for this reason, too, the commitments we have made throughout the dialogue with the left-wing parties on labour matters: to continue the increase in minimum wage; to combat precariousness; to regulate new forms of work and telework; to strengthen workers' rights on digital platforms; to strengthen the means of supervision; to strengthen the Act (Working Conditions Authority); to strengthen social security; to strengthen collective labour relations;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the guarantee that, during times of crisis, collective employment contracts are not put at risk, legally establishing a 24-month moratorium on expiry; the obligation to maintain the level of employment in large companies with profits for access to tax benefits and credit lines; the prohibition of redundancies by companies covered by public support associated with pandemic and employment, as we did in 2020. These are measures in a budget which, of course, makes choices. Responsible and necessary choices, a country of solidarity. Wrong choices we've had in past crises and we know where that took us. We live times of enormous uncertainty, with an obvious crisis in demand. It's important to act, and that's what we're doing. To reject these policies, urgent and necessary, in the face of a historical crisis is to get on the wrong side of history. This one, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an emergency budget, but it is also a budget that does not just look at the emergency. It is a coherent budget, with a path already made, that takes pride in this path and that wants to continue in the future, with structural investments. We need to change what needs to be changed, assuming new answers that best fit the reality and the challenges we have, promoting more robust, fairer, more digital social security, closer to people, with solutions adapted to each other's needs and abandoning models of functioning and obsolete responses. So also our commitment to investing in a digital revolution and also in the care of social security. The answers we give today are not just for today, they are the pillars of our future. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a Budget for women and for men who do not lower their arms, who do not give up fighting,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u222	What a big answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u223	...that every day is at the service of others. This is the time of the social state and the union of all those who believe in it. I am sure that we will all know that we are aware of the enormous responsibilities that today's times demand. We will be, as a society, what we will be able to answer together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u224	The Bureau records 12 entries for requests for clarification. In the meantime, the Minister informed her that she wanted to respond in two sets. To make the first request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u225	Mr President, Minister, the direct impacts of COVID-19 and its use as a pretext — and we must remind you of the changes to labour legislation, including the extension of the experimental period promoted by the former PS Government — have led to frightening growth in unemployment. There are tens of thousands of new unemployed, and those who were already in this situation cannot now enter the world of work. in this period, many of those who were unemployed saw the social benefits they were entitled to expire. There was an extension of the deadlines, but the lack of clarity of the legislation led to different interpretations by social security services. The question we are asking you is whether the Minister can guarantee that all those who were receiving unemployment benefit will see this renewed benefit and whether those who have been denied the services will be able to recover those benefits. Ms. Minister, the Family Agriculture Statute was created by Decree-Law No 64 / 2018 of 7 August, and regulated by Ordinance No 73 / 2019 of 7 March. This Statute guarantees access to a set of rights to which it is recognised. However, the fact is that the State's failure to provide the necessary financial, human and technical resources for the realization of these rights ends up making it impossible in practice, thus not continuing the objectives of protecting family agriculture. One of these rights established by the Statute is access to an appropriate social security scheme for family farming. Thus, in the context of the State budget for 2020, the Greens presented a proposal to ensure that 50% of social security contributions were reduced to farmers holding this Statute. However, this proposal has been rejected. In view of the fact that two years have elapsed since the publication of the diploma establishing the Family Agriculture Statute without a significant measure in the field of social security, will the Government reduce the contributions to the social security of farmers holding this Statute in 2021?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u226	To make requests for clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u227	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, there are tens of thousands of precarious workers who have already lost their jobs by 2020, and by 2021 this gap will probably get worse. This happened even in companies that benefited from simplified layoffs and other measures and support for job maintenance. These measures, which must of course exist, had as their counterpart the prohibition of dismissal, but in this prohibition the Government did not include precarious workers. In other words, the counterparties required by companies have left out all precarious workers. Workers with long-term contracts, workers with effective experimental contracts, workers with green receipts, workers with outsourcing, temporary workers have left out of any protection. The first victims of the crisis have not been protected and will not be protected in 2021 with this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u228	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u229	And yet it was to these precarious workers that the left had an obligation to respond...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u231	...and it is to these precarious workers that we want to respond. On them, we do not lower our arms, we answer them with our mandate. In fact, Mrs. Minister, the right-wing model to respond to the crisis in 2011 was to facilitate, protect and embarrass layoffs and cut the duration of the unemployment allowance. This State budget proposes that the country face the 2021 crisis with the same rules that the right has enshrined in the law and the consequences of which we already know: deprotection in unemployment, transfer of labour income to capital, impoverishment. How can the left accept that this crisis is facing no change in the right-wing rules regarding unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit? And even the increase that Mr. Prime Minister referred to yesterday and which is set out in Article 111. the proposal for a State Budget Act is a supplement which does not mean a change to the unemployment benefit law—just read this budget article to confirm it. It is an increase for this year, which is in force as long as the budget law is in force and which does not permanently index the unemployment allowance to the poverty threshold. Create is a new proportion of the IAS, which is not a structural change unless we are playing with words. However, Mr Prime Minister, I think we should have this debate with the same rigour as we have done the negotiations, with which we have always spoken, focusing on the answers and concrete content. And if in this debate we insist on detailing and realising the answers, it is because we know the hiatus between proclamations and realizations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u232	But now he's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u233	It's in the law and in the letters you've received!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u234	It is not worth inflating millions in advertisements to make them lower in execution, as happens, Prime Minister, with informal workers. Do you know how many informal workers are receiving today the support we negotiated in the Supplementary Budget? Do you know how many you are, Minister? Zero! Zero informal workers are receiving that support!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u235	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u236	We discussed this, Mrs. Minister, two days ago, at the hearing we did. The Statute for the Informal Caregiver by 2020 should have reached 200 000 people throughout the territory. However, there are 484 approved applications. And the support allowance which, therefore, applied only to the 30 pilot projects councils, should have reached the 38 000 caregivers who are in these councils. Do you know how many people received support from the caregiver? There were 32 people—and, Mrs. Minister, these numbers are yours, they are the last ones you gave us. That is why we are talking about an absolutely ironic percentage of what was expected. We need answers that are different from the right and that have concrete social effects, much more than advertising effects. It is, Mr. Prime Minister and Mrs. Minister of Labour, that is the responsibility of the left to the people who represent here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u237	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u238	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister, the Socialist Party, since it governs, and the left-wings who support it in the adoption of the Budgets have promoted a tremendous injustice towards a group of pensioners in particular. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And what pensioners are these? Quoting Article 59. the proposal for a State Budget Act is pensioners who have a pension whose amount has been updated between 2011 and 2015, i.e. pensioners whose pensions have been increased during the PSD / CDS-PP government. What pensioners are these? Exactly those whom Mr. Prime Minister spoke about yesterday, those who have the lowest pensions of the lowest: pensioners of the minimum pension, pensioners of the social pension and pensioners of the rural pension. These pensioners, the PS and the left have increased pensions by about half of what they have increased to the rest. Why? Because they had the "serious sin" of having seen their situation recognized by the PSD/CDS government. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] It is true, even by ruling after the bankruptcy in which the Socialist Party left us, even by governing the rules of the Memorandum of Understanding which required cuts imposed due to the governance of the former socialist government, we did not let pensioners stay behind with the lowest pensions of the lowest. And we never thought that a left-wing government would continue to penalize and punish those pensioners. I shall now be told by the Minister in reply: « But in the agreement this year, we have already agreed that they all receive the same». They only woke up because they needed votes and not because they realized that socially it was unfair what they were doing. This says a lot about the social sensitivity of this government. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The social sensitivity of this Government is to have sufficient votes to approve the Budget. Now, if it is necessary to increase minimum, social and rural pensions, very well; if you are no longer concerned with voting to approve the Budget, pensioners from minimum, social and rural pensions remain behind, because that does not matter to the Socialist Party. Madam Minister, the CDS will make a proposal that will give the Socialist Party an opportunity to say whether it is the vote or whether it wants to do social justice. The proposal will be very simple and aims at returning to these pensioners the damage that the Socialist Party Government has imposed on them in these four years. If you approve this CDS proposal, then you will recognize the importance of pensioners with the lowest pensions of the lowest. The second question, Mrs Minister, has to do with the following: at the hearing held yesterday, I asked you about the rapid intervention brigades, which could be rapid in the intervention, but in creation it was certainly not, because the government waited more than six months to create them. I asked him, in particular, about the Guard district brigade. The Minister told me that there were eight people. On the same day, the President of the City Council of the Guard requested that this brigade be immediately created because she did not exist and was not working on the ground. [[At this moment, the speaker presented an allusive news on the subject.]] And if the word of the President of the City Council of the Guard is not enough, I would like to quote what the Socialist Party's councillor Cristina Correia said from the same City Hall: « The rapid intervention brigades are starting late, they should be prepared before, because everyone knew that the situation was going to get worse». Who says so is the councillor of the Socialist Party of the City Council of Guards. Everyone knew — it is true! — that the situation would worsen. You have committed yourself to the creation of these brigades. In the Guard, these brigades aren't working.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u239	I appreciate your conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u240	I will finish, Madam President. What the Minister can tell these elderly people, who are inside, who have even more difficulties and who obviously cannot be exposed, as they are today, to hear the government's announcements and know that in practice nothing changes with these announcements. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u241	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u242	Mr President, Minister, problems in the area of employment and social security were not born with the COVID-19, but have worsened in a dramatic way, as we know. Workers, the unemployed, pensioners and pensioners, the elderly and disabled citizens were already in a fragile situation. Labour law is no better than in times of the troika and the malfunction of social security continues to raise deep concerns and exacerbate injustices, as a recent report by the Ombudsman pointed out. The replacement of rights and income from 2015 was not irrelevant—and we did not devalue it—but the situation in 2020 is not likely to justify retrofitting in 2021. On the contrary, what is needed is a bold policy to combat low wages, precarious work, poverty, discrimination, inequality and injustice, which continue to mark deeply the reality of our country. With the COVID-19, the State budget for 2021 became a national emergency, with a huge responsibility for employment and social security. This cannot be a Continuity Budget, because there is no continuity in the situation in which the country is located. It is not enough to say that, in the crisis in which the country is in, what is needed is to have a budget, whatever it is, under the penalty of exacerbating the crisis. No, what can worsen the crisis is to have a budget that is not in a position to give you an answer. The dimension of the crisis that the country is going through requires a response to the height, not only in the health plan, but also, and inevitably, in response to the grave social problems that are created. People who go through tremendous difficulties cannot be left behind. It is not possible to deal with this crisis by maintaining low-wage policies and by degradation of working conditions. The response to the crisis requires determined support for the most fragile social strata. The extension of the network of social equipment to support the elderly, whose immense weaknesses have been highlighted in recent times, and the extension of the network of day care facilities and their gratuities are incontrovertible social needs. As there are inadequate measures to strengthen the solidarity complement for the elderly, the increase in pensions, particularly lower pensions, the elimination of penalties in access to reform by long-term workers or long-term unemployed, the extension of the conditions of allocation of unemployment benefit or support for workers who have seen their income dramatically affected by the paralysis of their economic activity. The State budget for 2021 cannot forget the recognition that is due to workers who have guaranteed the uninterrupted functioning of social services that are indispensable, under conditions of high penoness, insanity and risk, and cannot deal with situations where COVID-19 is a pretext for dismissing or cutting wages and rights to workers. It is not enough, Mrs Minister, to praise the workers who are in front of the epidemic, the workers who guarantee essential services, those who are at risk of using public transport to go to work or those who, for health reasons, are prevented from going to work. Commendations are not enough. This budget, to be socially acceptable, has to give a clear answer, a response that people feel, in the face of the seriousness of the problems that affect them in their daily lives. The question that is on the table, Mrs Minister, is whether the Government is available to take this path during the debate in the specialty. We expect a clear response from the Government in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u243	For clarifications, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u244	I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs President. Members of the Government and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Minister, in her initial speech, said that this State budget should mobilise the Republic, we should all mobilise. Let me tell you that this is another budget for many announcements and little realisation. This is a budget clearly marked by the absence of the social sector, by a total absence and reference to the very important role of the social economy—and we are not, the PSD Parliamentary Group, which we say, also says the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support and the Economic and Social Council. Mr. Minister, it is important that ideological barriers be broken. Those who say so, in addition to us, are also the entities of the social sector. In this regard, I quote a phrase said by them: «The State does not support the social sector, it is the social sector that supports the State ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u245	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u246	Mr Minister, these words describe the lack of attention given by the State to an important sector and which gives essential support to people who are currently suffering from this pandemic. Mrs. Minister has made ads and more ads. Also on Monday, he announced here the question of Addendum to the Commitment for Cooperation for the Social and Solidarity Sector with an increase of 3, 5 % and then the strengthening of home support and home support by 5 %, when we, the PSD Parliamentary Group, questioned about the underfinancing of the social sector. Mr Minister, these announcements are insufficient to meet the costs of such an important sector, which has replaced the State in support of people. The State has to give that answer and cannot leave people and this sector behind. The Minister, in her hearing, spoke of the failures of the rapid intervention brigades. Admitting these failures is a principle, Mrs. Minister, it is true. Now these brigades should be on the ground in a timely manner to support social sector entities who were on the front line in support of people, replacing themselves with the State itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u248	The Minister once again came to this Parliament to announce a set of measures for people, based on an unrealistic revenue, because it is based on contributions and contributions that are greater than those that were raised in 2019 — and we are talking about a period when the economy was growing. Now, the economy is not growing and unemployment is rising, and it is expected to increase even further. In view of this, how do you intend to implement these measures? in this way of announcements that you have made in Parliament, another was the allocation of EUR 30 million to informal caregivers. Mrs Minister, EUR 30 million for informal caregivers is the 2020 unimplemented money that is transferred to 2021 — it needs to be true! Still continuing on this announcement path, Minister, how is the question of the reduction in the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit which has been in force since July 2020 and which has not yet reached people? Mr. Minister, the Government has an obligation to support people, it has an obligation to support social action, it has an obligation to support social sector entities, it has an obligation to support people and not to leave anyone behind. Tell me, Mrs. Minister, tell people how they will carry out these ads. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u249	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u250	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs Minister, we are living very difficult and uncertain times in which it is necessary to be determined and cold-headed, which you have revealed precisely in your speech. at the end of two days of debate, at this moment, we already know, there is no doubt, that this is a State budget of response to the pandemic crisis, of strengthening the social state, of stimulating companies, of increasing public investment, of valuing incomes, of strengthening the SNS and of social support to whom most needs. In fact, we did not need to know more to know, with a budget of these, that the PSD would be against. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and the right only know how to react to the crisis and crises with austerity. They have learned nothing from what has happened since 2015. We heard, this morning, the PSD says here that this is a budget of the state of style strogonoff / vegan. This is not true, I repeat, it is not true. But even if it were, it would certainly have much more substance than the empty austerity plate that served the Portuguese during the four years in which they ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD can say nothing more than austerity, than higher taxes, when it looks at a crisis. They have said the same in 2016, said the same in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, and now say the same in 2020. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] For if they continue to err as they have been wrong over the past few years, the country can be confident in the course chosen, because the success of our governance has been, year after year, and this will not be the exception, the measure of your failure as opposition. Mr João Almeida spoke of pensioners in his speech. Mr President, I thought the CDS was only talking about pensioners and pensioners in this Parliament to apologize for what Minister Mota Soares did while he was in government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] You know what happened? You cut pensions, cut RSI (social income of insertion). You cut 25 % to the beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly ( CSI ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u251	And why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u252	You kept all pensions frozen above €262 and did not do any more because the Constitutional Court prevented you from continuing with your cuts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This increased poverty among the elderly. That is your legacy of social policies for the elderly. That's the legacy on the right. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] They didn't learn anything, but they don't say why they're against it. We have heard Mr Baptista Leite say that the government has given up this and that. But what looks like the PSD has stopped saying why it's against, maybe because it's ashamed to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you're against it, why don't you say why? Are they against the increase in national minimum wage? Certainly, no PSD member would be able to live with the national minimum wage as it exists. Are you against, perhaps, the increase in pensions? Are they against social policies? Are they against SNS reinforcement? Are they against public school valuation? Maybe they're against all this, but we don't know. You have given up and are ashamed to tell the country why you are against this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a very different way. We heard the CDS say here yesterday that this is a left-wing budget. That's right, that's right! And we're very proud of that. This is a left-wing budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that follows the path that we have signed since 2015 with the Portuguese Communist Party, with the Left Block, with the PEV and with the PAN. It deepens several of its dimensions and goes further, which is all the more significant in view of the scale of the crisis we are living today. The priorities of the Budget in the area of work and social security were duly explained and further elaborated by the Minister. I'm not going to repeat them. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] I can say that all the measures represent EUR 22 385 million, which clearly shows the priority we give to strengthening our social protection systems. Unfortunately, I repeat, unfortunately, none of this was enough for the feasibility of the Budget by the Left Block. We understand politically the vote against the PSD and the right, because the State budget is on the left, because we defend it in this field. But we can only record with disappointment the position that was taken and announced by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u253	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u254	We, the Socialist Party, for the specialty, did not burn any bridges, did not lose the focus of our orientation. The preservation of the differences naturally created by different parties and their identities is not at stake. They will continue to be part of each party's identity. But it is about convergence around a common programme of economic recovery and combating the crisis that does not cease to strengthen public services, social protection, income and workers' rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I conclude, Mrs. Minister, by asking you to deepen your commitments in social and labour matters and to say how these distinctive marks in your area of State Budget clearly position us in the spirit, in the way and in the identity of the political program that, under the leadership of the Socialist Party, we have been building together since 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u255	To respond to this first set of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Silva, first of all, I would like to agree with what you have conveyed about how the pandemic has exposed the weaknesses we have, from the point of view of the number of people who have been discovered in terms of social protection. We have sought, over these months, to respond to all situations of people who are without social protection. It is enough to say that at present we already have about 2 million and 200 thousand people covered by the extraordinary support already paid, many of them reflecting many situations that were completely discovered, particularly for informal workers. In terms of the extension of unemployment protection situations at present, around 60 000 people have already been covered by these extraordinary extensions of unemployment benefit, initially by July, and also by social unemployment benefit. We also cover, with these extraordinary measures, 170 000 self-employed, who, if these measures had not been created, would be completely discovered. Of course, our concern has been to be able to respond to people's needs, on the one hand, and also to create extraordinary mechanisms and operationalize them as quickly as possible. It has indeed been a huge challenge on the part of social security. We simply think that social security pays, annually and regularly, benefits to about 4 million people to realize what effort it had to make in two months, to pay 2 million and 200 thousand people. I wonder if there would be another system other than that of public social security that could pay what social security has achieved, with all the difficulties it has and of course has. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why our great commitment to strong investment and a digital revolution in social security, with a planned investment of EUR 200 million in the recovery plan with this priority. I would also like to express our willingness to work within the framework of family agriculture, during the budget process, in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture. Therefore, the government will be available to work. Mr Soeiro, in fact, we have had a serious, long, deep dialogue process with results. And these results are also reflected in that evolution that we have made in the construction of this Budget and this path that we have traced. I confess that I feel some misunderstanding about how we can't get to this dialogue and continue the path that brings better solutions to people. An example of this dialogue was the way we have evolved in the creation of this extraordinary provision, as a result of the identification of problems we have done together, but also in terms of the evolution of the standard itself regarding the maintenance of the level of employment, in which we include economically dependent self-employed workers precisely to safeguard the situation of these people. [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] On the other hand, I reiterate that, with the simplified layoff, some 890 000 people have been covered, and their employment contracts have been protected through this support which had as its counterpart the prohibition of collective redundancies and termination of work, which we will maintain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I also want to say that our dialogue has been further, insofar as it has also been done at the level of labour relations and what moves us in the direction of combating precariousness. We have to look forward and not backward. We need to be able to build solutions that meet today's challenges and that young people also feel that it is for them that we are building answers and creating conditions to increasingly have stable working relationships and sustainable employment. That is our commitment and it was in that sense that we have come up with many very concrete measures, which I think all the workers have to gain. With regard to informal caregivers, we all know that the pandemic delayed the process, particularly until requests are made. We have so far had some 2700 requests in the universe that Mr Deputy identified as a potential universe. We realize that there has also been a difficulty in mobilizing people to make requests at the times we live, but we are always trying to evolve and simplify the process. The door was still published today, which I signed on Monday. to simplify the process. At a time when the doctors' admissions were more difficult, we also eliminated this step in order to make the process easier at this stage. Mr João Almeida, I think that we understand pensions, particularly because we have forgotten what the CDS and PSD have done in recent times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u257	Are we here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u258	Mr António Filipe could no longer agree on the need for investment in public services and the need for stronger and stronger public services. We have had a strengthening of 200 people for social security, but we need to continue this path, strengthening the role and responsiveness of social security, and also expanding the response capacity in terms of social equipment, either through the extension of these public equipment, or through the social network. It is in this sense that we have a commitment, through the Recovery and Resilience Plan, in which we have a EUR 420 million programme dedicated to increasing response capacity, and it is clear that it is critical at the moment we live. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u259	Let's continue with the requests for clarification. To that end, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u260	Madam President, Madam Minister, very briefly in 36 seconds, I would like to focus on one of the issues that brings us several concerns in this State budget: policies for people with disabilities. We understand that it is necessary to go further and we would like to know whether, in the field of expertise, the Minister and her Government are available either for a strategic plan for people with medium-term disabilities, from a 10-year perspective, for example, for surgical measures, or to give more conditions to caregivers of people with disabilities than 60 %. I would give you a very simple example: these people have a lot of difficulty in their work, by the work regime, and are often forced to work in shifts. We know that social equipment has its own time and, therefore, it seems to us that it would be essential to review, in essence, these conditions for caregivers of people with more than 60 % of disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u261	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u262	Madam President, Minister, the debate is going on. From so many times, we already know in color the changes to the labour law that the troika planted years ago and the effect that had on the impoverishment and vulnerability of the working class in Portugal. The weight of wages has always fallen in the years of the troika and never recovered again, the result of these rules that have not changed. During these two days, a single word of explanation was not heard from the Government to refuse any amendment to those labour laws. So at this final stage, I ask you to break this taboo and explain why. Why does the systematic refusal of the Socialist Party to reintroduce the rules it defended in 2012 on dismissal compensation? Why is it so important to suspend the expiry of collective bargaining for two years, which is a way of government recognizing the danger that this expiry represents for workers at this stage, but is it impossible to end it at once? So it's bad for these two years and it must be suspended, but it becomes good at the end of two years and it must be restored. What is the difficulty in recognising the error that was the lapse of collective contacts in the norm imposed on the time of the troika and ending it? Oh, my God! Madam Minister, I ask you to convince Parliament and convince the Portuguese that the troika was right. That explanation has not yet been heard here, and that is what I ask you to do. It convinces the country that Passos Coelho has left us a better labour law than we had before and that therefore the government rejects the Bloc proposals. Please, Madam Minister, do not answer us with the famous agreement on work on the horizon of the legislature, which, still yesterday, Mr. Prime Minister here mentioned again. That document, after all, is nothing more than the proposal which the Government itself has already given to social consultation two weeks ago and which the Minister here today presented in her essential measures. Maybe that's why, for not touching anything that's central and that the Left Block put, the reaction, either bosses, or unions, would have been just empathy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u263	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The situation experienced by workers and families in our country on a daily basis requires, in an even more urgent way, the strengthening of rights, social protection and public responses to ensure compliance with social rights. We note what the Government has taken on the extraordinary increase in pensions, €10 in January, as indeed the CFP has been defending for several years now, and the CFP argues that the extraordinary increase has to cover all pensioners. The increase in the minimum limit of unemployment benefit, the extraordinary support measure, we note, Mrs Minister, but this does not inhibit, does not hide or replace the need to go far further in social protection. It is the daily reality of workers in our country that demands it. of more than 410 000 registered unemployed, about 37 % are long-term unemployed. There are also the large tens of thousands of unemployed people who are not enrolled in employment centres. to workers without due social protection, who have suffered cuts in wages, who have, one day to the other, without remuneration, is urgent to give answer. It is necessary to strengthen the amounts of unemployment benefits, reduce the guarantee deadlines, improve the conditions of access, prolong the payment time and link unemployment benefits with a benefit for those who do not have access to any social support mechanism, going far beyond what is considered, in order to cover more workers and ensure more social protection. The precariousness of work is the precariousness of social protection and there are many workers with precarious links that are excluded from access to social benefits — false green receipts, temporary workers, outsourcing, which are paid to the piece, or at the time, in experimental period, informal workers. We must ensure that everyone has the right and necessary social protection. Workers of essential services (including those in the private sector) should be provided with a subsidy that recognises the increased risk to which they are exposed in this context. The expiry of collective bargaining must be eliminated at once—it is not a moratorium, it is not a suspension, it is a revocation of the expiry of collective bargaining. It is necessary to solve the problem of long-term unemployed, who suffer heavy penalties in access to reform, because they are considered old to work and new to retire. Injustices need to be corrected for those who have already been reformed with brutal penalties; improving solidarity for the elderly, strengthening the rights of people with disabilities. It is necessary to extend and strengthen social protection, as the CFP has defended and will not be due to lack of proposal from the CFP that these problems will not be solved. The question is what the Government wants to give these workers, reformers and people with disabilities in our country. Mr Minister, the CFP has been beaten by the freeness of day care, by a universal response that guarantees this right to all children. Due to the insistence of the PCP, this freeness was ensured on the first step, currently being registered the coverage to the second step, but it is necessary to extend this freeness to the other steps, allying the goal of creating a public network of day care centers, strengthening the existing capacity with vacancies in public response, as the PCP defends. The same applies to support equipment for elderly people, particularly households. It is necessary to strengthen the number of workers in the homes, ensuring that they have a working relationship with rights, but we cannot deal with this issue with remedies. It is necessary to intervene in order to resolve the underlying problem, assuming the State's responsibilities. It is essential to create a public home network, which extends the number of vacancies to respond to waiting lists and even to situations where many are pushed into illegal responses. Will the Government accept this commitment and follow up on the CFP proposals that effectively solve all these problems? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u265	For clarifications, Mrs Ofélia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u266	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we were aware of a report by the Ombudsman which denounces a very serious violation of the rights of citizens by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u267	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u268	I am referring to the report which resulted from the inspection carried out by the Ombudsman in the sections of the social security executive process, following numerous complaints from that entity. In the context of this inspection, a series of irregular and highly detrimental practices of citizens' rights were detected in the context of tax executions promoted by social security. Here I am referring — who says it is Provedoria — to practices that refer, among others, to situations of non-existent debt collection, to bank statements that are above the legally permitted, to unjustified delay in the refund of unduly charged amounts, or also to the timely and correct non-notification of the deadlines for payment of debts. If this situation is already serious by nature, it becomes more serious at a particularly difficult time for families and businesses as we now live. These harmful practices carried out by social security greatly contribute to aggravating the difficult economic and social situation of all those who have seen their bank accounts badly damaged or, still, of all those who have paid debts to social security that were not due. This is not what is expected of the State, it is expected, yes, to respect the rights and interests legally protected by the citizens. What confidence can families and businesses have in social security when it acts in a way that is detrimental to their rights and interests? Madam Minister, the Ombudsman recommends to social security and to the Government a quick correction of the most serious practices detected and even if all that is due is collected but only what is due, because this is the only way to reconcile efficiency in charging with respect for citizens' rights. Mrs Minister, in view of this very serious concern about the rights of citizens, I ask what you have to say to the thousands of families and businesses that trust social security and have seen their rights damaged? the state expects confidence and security, but here what we can count on is uncertainty and insecurity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u269	To request clarification, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u270	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Portuguese and Portuguese hope that this budget, with a strong social pendant, will be approved. They hope that we will find the best solutions for their lives, which have been severely hit by this crisis, hope that we will quickly return to the path of growth of prosperity, but above all to confidence and hope in the future. It is imperative to win the future, and this is a budget that fights inequalities in various areas of governance, from the outset, as the Minister has already said, ensures the level of income worthy of people severely affected by the crisis; gives priority to combating situations of poverty and social exclusion; protects the elderly throughout the territory with new social responses; guarantees more free daycare; dispenses the payment of moderate rates in primary health care; strengthens the value of the scholarship for students, but also strengthens the fight against domestic violence, xenophobia and racism. This is a budget to combat the structural inequalities that the crisis has set in motion. Is it a left-wing budget? Yes! Is it a budget that doesn't leave anyone? Yes! It is a budget that rebuilds the economy, which refuses austerity and impoverishment. To vote against this Budget is to abandon the people who now need us. Therefore, Madam Minister, for a very vulnerable group, which are the single-parent families, for whom socialist policies have long turned, in order to support, I would like to ask you the following question: how are we going to support these single-parent families, taking into account their conciliation difficulties, which have been so affected by this crisis? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u271	In order to make the last request for clarification to the Minister, Mrs Alma Rivera, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u272	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, to have a precarious working link that means that you can't make plans, you can't exercise rights, you can't count on stability at work as a structural element in life, you can't be quiet, you can't be safe, you can't have no expectations. Precautionary is one of the great problems of our country and prevents new generations from realizing dreams and building their lives. About 45,000 of the unemployed are under 25 years of age and many of them are workers between precariousness and unemployment, because the law allows, because the law is neither complied with nor enforced. To have a precarious link is to be in a situation of social disprotection. With the epidemic, those hundreds of thousands of workers who were dismissed because they were on green receipts, on temporary work or during the experimental period were twice as badly damaged because they were unemployed and without support. The truth is that whenever someone loses someone else wins and the fragility of the bonds, the deregulation of work, precariousness serves to increase profits, making work cheaper. Families are sacrificed, younger ones sacrifice themselves and their ability to design and build, but the country is also sacrificed as a whole. Precautionary is expensive, wastes energy and knowledge, also wastes revenue, because it is the income that feeds the economic circuit and also results in fewer contributions to social security. The proposal for a State Budget, submitted by the Government, does not respond to it as to other problems and needs of the country. When it should be the Government, soon in the Public Administration, to take up the fight against precariousness and to set an example, it is precisely the Government to resort to employment-inclusion contracts and all forms of precarious work to address inadequacies in public services. Thousands of employees are missing in schools, as are missing in health centres, hospitals and other services, and the government opts to put a few months and hours on its own. The principle that each permanent need must correspond to an effective link must be of value both in the public sector and in the private sector. The Budget, not being the only instrument to combat the structural problem of precariousness, is one of the instruments available. Apart from the substantive amendments, from the Labour Code, the State Budget for 2021 is one of these instruments for combating precariousness and the government is not using it, and by not assuming as a central element of its policy the fight against precariousness is not taking up this battle. It's the government that has the knife and cheese in hand. Will it or will it not bind workers who have been called to respond to the virus in the Public Administration, who have been hired in time and using all forms of precarious work? Will you or will you not exceed the lack of staff in public services, education and health, meeting the permanent needs with effective links? Will you or will you not strengthen the Act and give it the means to control the fulfilment of the rights of those who work? How much is it specifically allocated to the fight against precariousness? What means? Will there be a clear and firm political orientation to combat precariousness or will there not be? These are the options that hundreds of thousands of workers, so many young people, entire families, need to be clarified and these are the basic options that the CFP challenges the government to take. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u273	To reply, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, trying to make a summary of the various questions that have been asked to me, I would say that, in fact, this State budget has responded exactly to the problems and weaknesses that the pandemic has set bare in the field of social protection, in the number of situations that were being discovered, and to which, with this State budget, we have seen to respond through the new social provision. But in addition to the new social benefit, which will cover around 258,000 people, we also have here the increase in the minimum amount of unemployment benefit, which will cover 130 000 people, or also the payment of the differential for those who receive the social unemployment benefit, which will cover 16 000 people, or for workers without social protection, who have now submitted applications under the exceptional measure created, which will also cover 16 000 people. We have, in fact, sought ways to respond to those who were unprotected, but also to those who had their income unprotected, by strengthening social protection measures, of course, alongside the fight against poverty, particularly the elderly, by increasing pensions up to 1, 5 IAS, or strengthening the family allowance for support to families, as well as the measure of the free of charge for day care. With regard to the fragility in the labour market, which was evident in the face of the pandemic, our commitment has always been that of the world. In addition, there have already been changes to labour legislation, which is also commended by the ILO on how we have conducted a policy of combating precariousness, but clearly this must be one of our global priorities as Country, whether with some concrete instruments that we have proposed during negotiations with the left-wing parties, namely the fight against the abuse of temporary work, such as the extension of the special action for the recognition of the contract of work in situations of undue use of temporary work. They are very concrete measures and that is what I wanted to stress. Clearly, this fight against precariousness must be a joint, collective mission of the country, but with concrete measures and without going back, moving forward, responding to present and future problems and challenges, regulating new forms of work, protecting workers from platforms, without red lines. We are interested in giving concrete answers to people, who change their lives and guarantee them stability in employment. The State budget also seeks to respond to the most vulnerable people, whether those with disabilities or older people, and also here with a strengthening of support for the social sector and the institutions that respond primarily to these audiences. Just as an example, I'll show you this graph,... [[Right now, the speaker displayed a chart.]] ... to remind the PSD and the CDS what was the evolution of support for the social sector, which, of course, is no longer present. In recent years, we have strengthened the budget for cooperation agreements by EUR 300 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS/PSD government has strengthened it in EUR 117 million, and we have strengthened it in threefold. And the CDS/PSD government certainly remembers what it did: it increased the number of beds in homes, keeping the same equipment, therefore filling the equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u275	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u276	Regarding people with disabilities, we present a structural measure for the Value T program, for inclusion in the labour market of people with disabilities as a critical factor in promoting their independence. In addition, we are also increasingly concerned with creating and improving measures that, in fact, discriminate positively, particularly in terms of discrimination of licences, so that there is greater and effective reconciliation of personal, family and professional life. I conclude by saying that many of the concrete measures we have been negotiating and presenting to the left parties and I hope that this is a path that we continue to take together, because that is what the country expects of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u277	The Bureau also recorded an application by Mrs Isura Morais of the PSD Parliamentary Group for intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u278	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The history of the PSD is inseparable from its connection to local power, based on the protagonistship of its authorships and the importance it has always given to the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u280	Citizens and businesses recognise their role as the administration of proximity and have a direct and daily relationship with the activity of local authorities. The public health emergency caused by COVID-19 disease was a public disaster that required exceptional local government measures and should have, as such, had exceptional responses by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u282	Autarchic power is perhaps one of the greatest achievements of democratic Portugal, always present at the service of the people, especially when the other powers fail or are absent from the territories. The action of the autarchs, in this context of public health emergency, was and continues to be a remarkable and essential work, both in terms of support, commitment and proximity, multiplying in efforts and solutions, mobilizing means, resources and organization. Its contribution to the response to the epidemic situation and to the mitigation of its social and economic impacts is unquestionable and has been evidenced almost by all political forces. The Government, as it is responsible, has taken extraordinary and urgent measures aimed at the authorities to resolve the pandemic situation, materialized in several diplomas, which have been subject to successive improvements, measures which are extended by 31 December 2021 in this State budget by legislative authorization. Only that the majority of this legislation aimed at the authorities is concerned only with a set of diplomas that make a mere adjustment of the measures necessary to adapt the local administration to the current circumstances, in order to enable their proper functioning, without any indications of values or the realization of exceptional measures applicable to local authorities and inter-municipal entities, contrary to the speech of Prime Minister Antonio Costa and Minister Alexandra Leitão on the role of these entities in combating this pandemic. This proposal for a State budget does not bring measures that contribute to effective and necessary support for the liquidity of the authorities and to mitigate the enormous financial effort they have made to respond to the situation we are living in. Therefore, we were not surprised that yesterday, when the State Budget began to be discussed in general, the General Council of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) unanimously adopted a resolution on the proposal for a State Budget Bill for 2021 agreeing to the unfavourable opinion proposed by the Association Board. ANMP believes that it is essential that the State budget for 2021 include the means to allow municipalities to be compensated for the costs they are suffering under the COVID-19, to prevent municipalities from being placed in a situation of budgetary deficit. The State budget for 2021 cannot call into question the enormous financial stabilisation effort that has been made in general municipalities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for a State Budget for 2021 is a proposal that reveals the failure to comply with the various legal requirements relating to the authorities, either with regard to the Local Finance Act or with regard to the process of decentralization. In the case of the Municipal Social Fund ( MSF ) there is a failure to comply with the rules of calculation. Although the State budget for 2020 determines the establishment of a working group to assess the amounts relating to the allocation of the WSF by the third quarter of 2020, so that it can already be reflected in the transfers to be made in the State budget for 2021, why does the value expressed in the State budget bill for 2021 represent the same value as 2015, i.e. the same value as 2020 and below 2019? This issue is all the more important in the context of the situation, since this fund has social aims, in particular, for social support in education and support for expenditure under COVID-19. With regard to the financing of decentralisation, why does not the forecast of the global amounts involved in the Decentralisation Fund continue to be included and the amounts discriminated against which each municipality has already accepted competences? There are two pesos and two measures: on the one hand, in the proposal for a State budget for 2021, the amount of transfers of funds to finance new competences of the parish, discriminated against by the council and the parish, but the same does not happen with regard to the municipalities, since it does not appear in the global budget and does not appear discriminated against by the municipality. I cannot conclude, Mr President, without stressing that the authorities are in line with the collective effort to deduce the devastating effects of this pandemic crisis. This is a fact that cannot be ignored. Nor can the adverse consequences of such action be ignored in municipal budgets and financial management, either in the short or in the medium and long term. If the Portuguese authorities also show in an unfavourable manner to this State budget for 2021, another argument, among many others presented, for the PSD to vote against. But at least the authorships deserve more from the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u283	With no further entries to intervene, we can move on to the second point of our agenda today, the closure of the discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. To open this final phase, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u284	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budgetary debate, in general, confirmed that the economic recovery of Portugal and the construction of the bases for a more developed country is not a priority of this government, neither of the PS, nor of the extreme left. in these two days we had public raids in the management, we had a messed up barge to grab power, we had exercises of unconvincing rhetoric. What we did not have was a debate about what the country has to do to effectively initiate recovery and get out of this stronger crisis. It's just that these hijackings and this barge have real costs for the Portuguese. For the extreme left to return to the PS's arms, the government is willing to do everything. Just yesterday, here, he agreed to review the scope of the new social benefit and anticipate the increase in pensions for January. on one day, more than EUR 300 million of additional expenditure. This promises to be a mana, but only for some. There is money for electoral or political clients; there is money for public investment of non-existent or doubtful return; there is no money for a concrete plan to recover the delays of the SNS and save lives, but there are EUR 17 billion buried in the TAP; there are no measures that stimulate private investment, but almost EUR 800 million is reserved for increased public service customers; there is not even an attempt to avoid emigration of young talent, but there is money for pharaonic works. Mr. President, Prime Minister, Portugal ceased to grow sustainably 20 years ago, or more. While other countries of the European Union grew and developed, Portugal stood and saw itself overcome. The question is, why? Do the countries that have overcome us have enormous natural resources? They don't. Were they not under Communist dictatorships in the last century? They've been, yes, sir. Are these people more capable than we are? They're not. At least for the Liberal Initiative, they are not. The explanation for our backwardness is simple: we have too much state in our lives, in our businesses and in our society. A heavy, expensive, incompetent state and generator of dependencies and compadria that prevents Portuguese people from doing their best. The vision that the Liberal Initiative has for Portugal is quite different. Because we trust the Portuguese, we want to free them from the excessive constraints imposed by the State today. We want a country with increasingly autonomous people, less dependent on a state that should be smaller but much more effective in protecting Portuguese rights and freedoms. Therefore, we will present our proposals for liberal charism during the stage of the discussion in the speciality. Proposals for the health system to respond to the pandemic without forgetting other diseases and prepare to give freedom of choice to Portuguese people, proposals to defuse and simplify the taxes of people and businesses, to balance people's relations with the State, to reduce context costs, to reform and decomplicate the State, to also make justice faster and effectively combat corruption. Portugal cannot be delayed any longer nor can the change be postponed. Because this Budget treats our present badly and ignores our future, we take our vote against a Budget that delays recovery and postpones Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u285	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u286	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This is the budget for fear and fear. It is the budget of fear because it has always had the threat that if they do not approve it comes there a terrible crisis. Using the words of Mr. Prime Minister, if we do not approve this Budget, in March we will be discussing the inevitable, i.e. when the Assembly of the Republic dissolves. But it is not only the Budget of Fear, it is also that of the fearful, of those who, in the face of the threat of departure of the greatest government in history, have the irremediable fear of a new political cycle that is able to respond to the Portuguese. And fear will lead today to the approval of this Budget, before partners who are no longer partners, before new partners who are afraid to go to vote and even before some others who, being nowhere on the barricade, do not want to vote, because vows always complicate our lives. on our part, the votes are everything and it is the Portuguese that we want to hear, as soon as possible. But this is also the Budget of fiscal juggling, a technique, never before seen in Portugal, to say that taxes are lowered then charged in May or August, or to say that the tax burden falls, not because they reduce taxes, but because there is less revenue, less work and less investment. « Recipe António Costa », which always works and that will always have to continue to work while here a giant wave continues to feed this fancy tax in which we continue to live. But this is also the Budget that left the companies and the middle class outside. All business associations said the same thing: « This budget does not serve». Of course, there are some understandings, in the socialist area, that say « it is not so bad, we will wait, either in May or June... ». In May or June we may be on the brink of our economy and we will no longer have time to stand up to answer. This is the Budget which once again attacks the security forces and which sends reform, pre-reform, reservation and availability to be suspended, while thousands of men and women, thousands of families in Portugal continue to have their rights suspended. at the same time that we do this, we give more to the same as ever, to many who have never contributed 1 cent to Portugal and who enjoy with whom they work and with whom they support this country. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, we have been overcome by all or almost all Eastern countries in our growth. Shame—this is the word that defines an economy that cannot grow and that holds itself to the ghosts of the past, the same as ever, now supported by the Communist Party and the Party of Animals and Nature! But this is also the Budget which, having promised to fight corruption, does not present a single path, does not increase the funding effort of the Judicial Police or the Public Ministry, at a time when so many millions will fall into Portugal, to continue feeding the same circus of always.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u287	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u288	I will finish, Mr. President. This was the moment we had to fight against corruption, but we don't. We are on the verge of further measures, probably of confinement, and what does the government give us? A budget full of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u289	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u290	A hand full of nothing, which will lead us to the greatest crisis of our lives, and we will be here, as always, to solve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u291	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u292	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The discussion of this budget takes place in a period of great demand, with the social, economic and environmental problems getting worse every day, especially because of the pandemic crisis we are going through. Unemployment continues to increase, the economy is still suffering, the difficulties of paying the daily accounts of families are increasingly a reality, and poverty is growing. It installs and spreads, knocks on the door of the homes, increasingly and more intensively, to the door of the people who work, because, although there are political forces in this House that are against the increase of the national minimum wage, unfortunately, in our country it is impoverished to work. It is a crisis that requires answers and options that do not leave anyone outside the radar of social support and that give clear signs that point to the exploitation of the planet's resources without mortgageting the resources of the future. It tells us the common sense that we need to learn from the mistakes of the past and, therefore, today more than ever, an intervention state is required and determined in the necessary investments, as soon as it does not put the blindness of the deficit in the face of the necessary answers that citizens need and that are fundamental to the development of the country. On the other hand, this crisis invites us to look at it as an opportunity to rethink the priorities that have guided our lives, the way we live, produce and consume and the way we relate to nature. It is therefore time to re-equalize this economic model, which is based on the unbridled exploitation of natural resources, which gives rise to high health risks and promotes strong environmental impacts, in addition to dramatically deepening social inequalities. The climate crisis, the frightening loss of biodiversity and the unsustainable use of natural resources cannot fail to be present in today's concerns. Also, this pandemic cannot serve as an excuse to reduce investment in determining areas to ensure ecological balance, such as conservation of nature or the transport sector. It is not, in fact, the fact that the Greens insist on the need to provide the country with greater coverage in terms of public transport, with greater relevance in rail, and to extend the scope of the social pass, but also to promote the use of soft modes of transport, in particular with the implementation of a national network of cycleways connected between municipalities and regions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have stated from the outset, for the Greens it would be absolutely crucial that this budget, on the one hand, should not promote any decline in the progress that has been achieved in recent years and, on the other hand, that it would take a determined fight against poverty, which has gained even more worrying dimensions following the pandemic. In other words, it would be crucial for this Budget to promote a substantial strengthening of public services, particularly in health, education and justice; a strong commitment in our production, with particular emphasis on family agriculture and the channelling of means to ensure the survival of micro and small enterprises; and, finally, a serious response to the climate crisis we are facing. If it is true that, in our view, this budget does not promote setbacks in relation to the advances that have been being built, it is also true that what is expected, both in terms of strengthening public services and in the fight against poverty, is far from desirable. As regards combating poverty, we speak of the thousands of workers who, in the text of the proposal, lack access to any social support, especially workers with precarious links and the whole universe of informal workers. But we also talk about the increases in salaries of public administration workers and the values of reforms, and here we will have to bear in mind some data very relevant in this area: on the one hand, the fact that the return of rights and income to families has been decisive for the performance of the economy and, on the other hand, that the salaries of public administration workers have been frozen for more than a decade and that they have taken a few migalhas this year, with the promise of a fairer increase in 2021. A promise, it is recalled, taken by the Government in the discussion of the State budget for 2020. With regard to strengthening public services, the planned investments are not able to guarantee what is needed, particularly at the level of health, education and justice. On the basis of the balance sheet, the reading made by the Greens is that this budget is far from responding to the problems that persist in the country and that the Portuguese continue to feel. While acknowledging that this budget, as it is presented, is far from responding to the set of problems we have in front of us, the Greens have decided by abstention in general. But this abstention and this position of openness now expressed by the Greens has the very clear purpose of giving the PS another opportunity to also take a position of openness to other concerns of the Greens, which were more than identified during this debate in general. It is true that the opening up of the PS to receive these contributions would not make this budget a good budget, but would make it the least insufficient in the responses to the problems that the country is experiencing. But there is no doubt that this abstention generally compromises nothing and under no circumstances does the sense of vote by the Greens Ecological Party with regard to the overall final vote, the assessment of which will be made at the appropriate time. But that's more forward. For now, the PS has the opportunity to reassess priorities and realize the real needs of the country and Portuguese. This is the practical translation of the general abstention of the Greens Ecologist Party, and this should only be understood. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u293	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this time, it is not difficult to imagine the great challenge we face, although we do not know how long we will have to live with this health crisis and, less so, what the total consequences of the socio-economic crisis. That is why this Budget can not only be seen as a Budget for 2021, but rather as an instrument that should serve the country to build its recovery and ecological transition that needs to be made. The end of the debate in general around the State budget is only the beginning of a long way towards an Budget that is able to face the greatest challenges of our time so that the country does not paralyze; so that it can function and respond to the needs of first-line professionals and entrepreneurs most affected by the crisis; to prevent the worsening of unemployment and precariousness; to ensure access to the National Health Service; to respond to people who, having lost their income, need not miss them; to respond to the climate crisis, to reach us more and more in the form of extreme climate events; to ensure protection for animals. For all of this, we must make this more demanding path of dialogue and discussion of proposals. To that end, it is also necessary for the Government and the Socialist Party to have the ability to fulfil and advance the construction of the foundations of the bridges created. As far as the NAP is concerned, we have reached this stage of discussion with the awareness that we have done our part. But let it be clear that if this were the final budget, the NAP could not have the same position in the vote it will have today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, we need a truly more ambitious budget for the country, a conscious budget aligned with the priorities of the collective and with courage for the change it imposes. Of course, as to the concern of not leaving anyone behind, because at this time so complex that we cross we can all be sailing in the same waters, but certainly we are not all on the same boat. We have already said this and we do not tire of repeating it: the government has to choose who will give the hand, whether people and an economy are based on the principles of sustainable development, with transparent management, whether the interests that have captured and committed progress and the common good. That is also why, more than ever, the mantra "let no one back" must mean — under the penalty of becoming a sterile brick and to adorn posters and speeches — a strong commitment to combating social and regional inequalities, which still persist, and to the multiple forms of discrimination, in particular of the socially most vulnerable population or in situations of material deprivation, such as homeless people, children, elderly people or women. Here arrived, we cannot deny that the impacts of the crisis are often invisible and disproportionately affect this population, no longer to speak in the fight against domestic violence, a scourge that has not disappeared and that it is important to prevent and combat. Another structural matter for the NAP, for which this budget proves to be defective, is linked to the response to the legitimate concerns of young people. It is not understandable that one of the generations most affected by this pandemic, perhaps the one who has more to lose with the lack of future prospects, is, if not entirely, virtually beyond this Budget. We need to give young people a clear signal that the path of recovery will not be the path of precariousness, which was precisely the path that placed them in a situation of deprotection during the last few months. We cannot continue to have just to offer young professional internships with « first job» when we should be supporting them and launching them for an active, full and rightsful professional life. This budget is also not for young people in terms of the climate crisis, partly due to options that drive political dissonance and translate into preferences, such as the prospect of lithium in protected areas, the 'intensive steufization' of Costa Vicentina or the construction of a new airport in Montijo. All government options that compromise the future of the next generations and which are at odds, as we have reported, with the values proclaimed in the Recovery and Resilience Plan itself and, worse, with the international agreements signed by Portugal. We have often heard here that if this budget envisages proposals in the field of the environment in great measure it is due to the decisive contribution of the NAP, which, indeed, does not reassure us, Mr Prime Minister, precisely because we know how much is to do and how great is the resistance to take the necessary steps to an effective decarbonization of the economy and to the fulfilment of the goals, not those that we have self-imposed, but those that the planet has delimited and that science has already long identified. A country that claims to be committed to combating the climate crisis cannot, as it has done, close its eyes to those most polluted, with the argument that the economy demands it. More: it cannot waste public money to promote pollution, to then allocate more resources to correct these bad options. This is the total perversion of public policies! We well know that it is not inviting to face those who profit from the depredation of natural resources. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, to be committed to decarbonisation is this: not to look at names when implementing policies, which, more than necessary, are absolutely vital. It is essential to demand more, at this time, those who continue to exploit the natural resources and to pollute what is of all of us, our common good, this common house that is the planet and that is our own country, as happens, for example, with intensive and superintensive livestock. It is essential not to focus on the mistake of continuing to see as a response the one who has been sold as the "gold-egg chicken" to the country — mass tourism — and that it has not been more than a placebo with which we are dealing with our problems. The planet does not, above all, bear so much consumption, and neither does our economy, as the health crisis made it necessary to demonstrate. The same applies to economic growth which is about to run into ethical issues which, at this time, should already be more than exceeded. Consider the example of the transport of live animals, under absolutely degrading conditions, which have long been denounced and described as inhumanes, or the permission for those who continue to enjoy themselves at the expense of animal suffering, exposing even children and young people to the grotesque violence of the Tauromachia. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : We are faced with the need to change the paradigm and to establish the development of the country in more sustainable and ethical models, not only from an ecological point of view, but also from a social point of view. But to do so, investment and commitment are needed. And the point of return is precisely this, Prime Minister. In the specialty, the NAP will not resign itself from continuing to do its work. That's what we're here for! We must not fail to point out that, from tomorrow onwards, a new phase begins, and with it we will know the degree of commitment of each one, but in particular of the Government, to receive more than what he has designed in general. It is the last chance for this budget to come out better than it has entered, but above all, the last opportunity for us to come to have a budget. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u295	We moved on to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u296	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the country needed responsibility, coherence and vision, management, or what is left of it, it offered a budget of trapelon, incoherent and short-sighted. At present, the Budget is, in practice, the distribution of subsidies and absolutely contradictory and erratic signs between the needs to encourage the economy and contain the pandemic. For the future, this budget should be the first strategy to pave the way for Portugal to not continue in the coming decades to dispute the last places of growth in Europe, as it has unfortunately done in the last 20 years. Instead, what we have is the absence of any vision. The only real investment strategy that goes away, in the middle of all this, is very simple, but it is nothing new, Mr. Prime Minister : spending money on public works. Nothing else! With regard to strategy, or the lack of it last week, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, no doubt one of the faces of management, announced that — and I quote — « the time of the motorways is over». He forgot to explain that unfortunately the time to pay the highways will only end in 2039. Repeat : in 2039. And I am speaking about this not to do the little evil of asking Minister Pedro Nuno Santos where he would be when the most expensive of these road PPPs were approved in 2008, in 2009 or 2010. No, I am talking about this in order to raise a question which is profound, and which is basically because I do not comply with it, and Portugal cannot and must not forever be the country in which strategies last much less than half the time it takes to pay them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u298	And what is now being prepared is exactly this: to recycle a strategy of great works that will hardly resist the test of time and to commit an investment strategy that distrusts the private initiative, which does not believe in entrepreneurs and, above all, that does not believe in cross-border incentives to all companies. He does not believe in anything that is private and that works without swallows, decided on a case-by-case basis, in complex processes, by public entities, and that he prefers to bet on megainitiatives, decided by lit in ministerial offices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u299	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u300	It is not only the future that this Budget fails, it also fails the present. In a budget that only looks at the distribution of income in the form of subsidies, completely forgetting the creation of that income, the promise that the PS has chosen not to fulfil and that all partners have chosen to forget was a reduction of IRS of EUR 200 million. The only one — I repeat, the only one! — tax relief actually enshrined in the articulation for the middle class is a measure called 'VATucher', which is, as you say, a measure giving a tax discount to families who can choose to spend their money on restaurants, hotels and culture. I understand the need not to let the tourism sector die, but we must agree that, from this point of view, this measure is both inefficient and, above all, insufficient and, much more than that, it is also an absolutely incoherent measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we live in a country in which it is possible to have a Formula 1 weekend, with dozens of thousands of people coming from the whole country, from all the councils and districts, and even from outside the country, and, at the next weekend, the next weekend, all people are forbidden to travel, or to the council on the side, to honor their dead. These contrasts show the lack of preparation, but above all the lack of good sense of the government, which seems to be a policy of signs and fans completely erratic and infantilizing the citizens. And it is this policy of excesses and this lack of common sense that has consequences that will be disastrous, unfortunately simultaneously, for health and for the economy, in the worst of the two worlds. This is how this Budget feels it is normal to create a tax advantage for people to go to restaurants or shows at the same time that it will cancel the promise of tax relief for the families they choose and for the families that are forced, by the state itself and by the public health needs, to stay at home, or for the families who see themselves afflicted to have money, even to go to the supermarket, the more to go to the hotels. It's a contrast, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't get it. It is also, in the middle of a pandemic, a budget of enormous social insensitivity. In July, there were nearly 1 million consultations, with presence and non-presenceal, and fewer than 99 000 surgeries. The alternative here is very clear: leave the patients waiting or take advantage of the capacity that already exists to treat them in the solidarity and private sectors. The choice of management parties is, too, unfortunately very clear: they leave the patients waiting and, in return, preserve their prejudices. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The consequences are life and death for those who need it. I know no greater social and even humanitarian insensitivity than this. It is for all this that this Budget can only deserve one vote: a vote that defends these patients who hope and despair; a vote that fights, yes, for the workers and businesses who every day strive to make a living, in a scenario that is extremely difficult; and a vote that does not give up, above all, a better future for Portugal. That vote is a vote against the budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u301	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. To speak, Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The question is not whether or not there is a 2021 budget, but whether the next budget, as well as other measures and options to be taken, are in fact responding to the resolution of structural problems that have been dragged down for years and to the new problems determined by the impact of the epidemic. The example of the Supplementary Budget shows well that it is the content of the Budget that really matters. Instead of responding to the needs of the people and the country, the Supplementary Budget has chanced cuts in wages and determined privileged measures for economic groups. The results are in sight, with the worsening of all the problems already identified in July and which could have been stopped. Having arrived here, we need to turn from words to acts and that the invocation of the seriousness of the situation results in the overall response to national problems within and outside the State budget. We have already realized that PSD, CDS and its most reactionary successors seek to ride the crisis situation to recover all the ideological trait with which they have justified for years the policy of assault on rights, wages, pensions, living conditions of workers and the people and public resources, including the budget of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u303	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u304	The outcome they are now seeking is the justification for their anti-social and anti-popular policies and options, to allow the country's economic and social situation to be degraded, hoping to be able to resume the national disaster policy of the CFPs (Stabilisation and Growth Programme) and the troika. The situation we are going through does not simplify or facilitate the construction of the State budget or its approval, on the contrary, makes them more demanding. The situation in the country and the recovery of that discourse and positioning more to the right emphasize the need of the government and the PS to choose to give real response to national problems. Not dealing with the country's structural problems will lead to economic difficulties, external dependence, inequality and social injustice. Leaving public services without the capacity to respond to the needs of users and populations will contribute to the liquidation of social rights and the success of economic groups in the ongoing looting operation, especially in relation to the SNS. Leaving the workers and the people without response to their problems, allowing the volume of unemployment, leaving frozen wages or even cut and unemployed without social protection, leaving the elderly and children without social responses, marginalizing firefighters will create the pasture that the most reactionary right will burn with its hate speeches, attacks on democracy, uprooting rights, social and racial segregation. The proposal for a State Budget, submitted by the Government, does not provide guarantees of inverting the current course and does not respond to national problems. The government's priority to reduce the deficit denies EUR 6 billion, which are indispensable for measures to respond to the economic and social situation. The postponement and failure to comply with various measures adopted in successive budgets, including in the Supplementary, and even the failure to comply with other decisions taken to deal with the epidemic — with the flagrant example of measures to support unconclusive small entrepreneurs — underscore the concern with the aim of reducing the deficit at all costs, despite the situation that the country is going through. The Government and the PS have the responsibility to ensure a Budget that, in its final version, contributes to the global response that is necessary, by reverse wrong options, by building appropriate solutions and by making the corresponding convergences. The absence of the CFP is not a point of arrival, it is assumed with the aim of opening the discussion that is missing, confronting the needs of the people and the country with the measures that guarantee their response, despite the systematic refusal of the Government to correspond to them. The vote against at this stage would not allow that possibility. We are going to discuss the speciality: knowing that there is no response to an economic recession, nor to the dynamization of the economy, without valuing work, the general increase in wages for all workers, including the national minimum wage, and the repeal of the serious standards of labour law; striving for the National Health Service to have the necessary means and resources, either to face the epidemic, either to respond to everything else that has been left behind; requiring specific solutions for the recruitment of workers in sectors and careers where recruitment faces greater difficulties, such as the cases of doctors and nurses, in addition to general measures to value wages and careers, as an indispensable instrument for valuing workers and improving the provision of public service;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u305	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u306	... intervening in order to strengthen public services by hiring thousands of workers who are in need, in addition to health, schools, social security, justice, forces and security services; proposing that essential services workers be entitled to a remuneration supplement covering all health sector professionals, security forces and services, firefighters, social equipment, cleaning and urban hygiene, waste collection, water and sanitation and others; reaffirming the need for the enhancement of the unemployment benefit by extending its scope, strengthening the amounts and extending payment periods; combating the response to the needs of young families and the elderly to be defined by concrete measures and objectives relating to the creation of vacancies in the public network of day-to-days, to be implemented in 2021, and clearly defining the responsibility for social security in both areas; proposing for the production of workers, the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the sectors of the fishing industry, ensuring the specific prices and quality of agriculture, ensuring the specific prices and competitiveness. We do not give up fighting for a fair fiscal policy by relieving IRS taxation of lower and intermediate incomes and at the same time ending the flight to foreign economic groups that must pay taxes on profits generated in Portugal in Portugal. We will intervene to ensure that access to culture, sport and the use of life is not suspended or condemned to disappear in the face of the difficulties posed by the epidemic. We will intervene to ensure that the country's strategic sectors do not continue to be at the mercy of the interests of the monopolistic groups. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Health problems are far from being overcome and introduce uncertainty as to future developments in the face of the worsening of all economic and social indicators. In view of the size of the problems, the country would not understand that the answers imposed were rejected. The country would not understand that if it continued to place the interests of the great capital in the face of improving the living conditions of the workers and the people. The country would not understand that the necessary solutions would continue to be postponed, subordinated or dependent on deficit or debt. Workers and the Portuguese people should not fear the threats and blackmails that can be made about the Budget. What is and will be of concern is the State budget and other government options that have tied the lives of millions of Portuguese to economic and social degradation. The left-wing response to the economic and social situation must be that of deepening democracy, equality, social justice and the rights of the people, with the subordination of economic power to political power, either in combating corruption or in restoring public control of companies and strategic sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u308	As in the general vote on the Supplementary Budget, now, with our abstention in the general budget for 2021, we have opened up the possibility of discussion that needs to be done in the specialty. The final vote in the Budget will depend on the evaluation of this final version of the Budget in response to the overall response to national problems and guarantees regarding the Government's options in fundamental matters in the field of wages, workers' rights or the recovery of instruments indispensable to the conduct of a policy of economic and social development at the service of the country. This is our commitment. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u309	Mr Catarina Martins has the floor now for one speech by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u310	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country noted the tone with which the Prime Minister addressed the Left Block in this debate. Actually, it's not new. This was the case a year ago in the election campaign, requiring an absolute majority to be able to avoid a new management. But these states of soul, you know, never took us off our path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u311	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u312	On election day, one year ago, we re-proposed to the PS a written agreement for the Legislature. Without surprise, we heard the answer that the management was dead and that the PS refused any agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u313	Don't! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u314	We proposed this agreement because we wanted to open a new path that would respond to the greatest social deficits.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u315	We're looking at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u316	We wanted this agreement because we hoped that the PS could move away from the pact with the right and with the great bosses to maintain the workers' legislation of the troika. We wanted this agreement because Portugal needs policies that bring confidence and security to those who work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u318	The PS refused, but the Block did not give up. We never give up. We're not giving up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u320	The National Health Service has been our priority. We did not prevent the storm, but we knew the reality. Before the pandemic, we already knew that much more professionals were needed, more investments, more means of diagnosis. We have made it possible for the State budget that is in force, after several agreements with the government, especially to strengthen the National Health Service, but also to defend the public school, protect the poor pensioners, care for caregivers. None of the agreements were fulfilled in the right time, many were simply forgotten, and this taught us to be demanding until the details of the smaller letters are detailed. Even after refusals and non-compliances, we never give up. We have given the Government everything that Parliament has asked for in recent months: in the State budget for 2020, in the emergency and in the Supplementary Budget, we have supported all the strengthening of funds and means and all the conditions it has asked us to have. Now, the government is asking us to make the State budget available for 2021 eyes closed. Just because. Because if we approve earlier, we will have to approve later, even if we know that the Budget does not respond to the emergency of the crisis. We are asked to vote without support. Yes, it would be deserter from Portugal. We won't! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u321	In the State budget for 2021, we have to decide how to defend Portugal next year. And for a budget to be left-wing, it is not enough for the government to say so; it has to have left-wing policies, left-wing solutions. I know that the approach to the left has always been limited in previous budgets. It is true that the PS has always stood up to the right in the structural matters where rules were necessary for the financial system and to defend the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u322	Now we're going to see who gets up next to the right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u323	But it is no less certain that, until today, there has been a field of progression to the left, in defending labour incomes, respect for pensions and careers, the social state, and we are proud of this path. Tragically, when the crisis is over, the government is desert until this narrow field of understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u324	Which desert is the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u325	It cannot be hidden in Europe, that this year it has suspended absurd budgetary rules and that, although cynically, it has recommended the valorization of work and wages, the government is hiding itself in manipulation, hostility, blackmail. We will not respond to any of this, but we will answer to the country about how our people are protected in the midst of the storm. [[Rice from PS Pedro do Carmo's deputy.]] We answer about the social emergency and how to deal with the wave of layoffs. And we know that a left-wing response defends the contributing career of those who have lost their jobs, extending the unemployment allowance. It imposes rules on the economy, so that public support to enterprises cannot be indifferent to the fate of precarious workers, so that dismissal compensation is strengthened and dismissal is no longer the easiest and cheapest option. The left answer supports who is most unprotected, with a protection designed to leave no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]] when you refuse to change the rules of dismissal or social support on the right— "in addition to the troika", do you remember? — what the government tells us is that it will face this crisis with the laws of 2012 at work and in social protection, laws designed precisely for the costs of the crisis to fall on workers. The same recipe will have no other effect. If we have rejected it in the past, if we have done everything to deal with it, if our understanding has always been to turn it away, how can the government now think that, in the face of a new crisis, we would accept it? How can PS accept this recipe?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u326	All right! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u327	During this debate, neither once did the Government or the Socialist Party say why they oppose the recovery of the unemployment benefit period or why they find it wrong to return to dismissal compensation, which they defended here in 2012. More: the Prime Minister has announced that the moratorium on the unilateral expiry of collective bargaining protects millions of workers and we have not heard an argument that a measure that thus attacks the work is only suspended and not repealed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u328	What does that have to do with the Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u329	Mr Prime Minister, if it were not serious enough that the Government's solution does not respond to the social emergency, is it not, in fact, almost everything? — nor does it respond to the health crisis. In the middle of the pandemic, the government complies with the lack of resources of the National Health Service and abandons the path built hard to defend it. With a budget in force that foresees the increase in the number of professionals in the National Health Service, we have painfully verified that the SNS has less doctors than it had in March when the pandemic arrived in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u330	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u331	And it shocks us that the Prime Minister always repeats, as he repeated yesterday, that there are more doctors, when, if we open the official portal SNS Transparency, if we look at the numbers that the Minister of Finance has confirmed in Parliament, there is the difficult reality: there are even fewer doctors than at the beginning of the pandemic. What I ask is how a Prime Minister who ignores reality can correct a problem that he thinks does not exist. The Block presents solution: creating careers in the SNS exclusively, decent wages and demanding conditions. This is what António Arnaut and João Semedo proposed and is part of the Health Bases Act that we built together in the past legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u332	Don't mix things up!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u333	And no, Minister Marta Temido, no one doubts here your dedication in fulfilling your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u334	What a lack of judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u335	But the full dedication that is in the electoral programme of the PS and the Basics Law is not that: it is indeed a compensation scheme for professionals, that regime to which the Government now opposes. It proposes that we approve a Budget of promises, with many contests which, you know, will be half empty. It proposes remedies when Portugal needs solutions. We don't trade solutions for ads. [[Congratulations from BE.]] If I insist on the question of the National Health Service is because outside these walls there is a pandemic that is growing. To win it, we need professionals, hospitals and health centers. No one denies that Portugal will have to mobilize all its installed capacity in health, including private and social, to respond to the crisis — we say it from the outset — but will have to do so with rules, transparency and, above all, planning, which guarantee care today and in the future, so that the National Health Service does not end up destroyed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u336	Looks like it's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u337	We look at the announcement that the Minister of Health made today in the debate: the National Health Service already has autonomy to contract with the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u338	It's too bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u339	But, then, why does it also not have autonomy to hire the professionals you need for your paintings? Why does the government resign itself to the collapse of the National Health Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u340	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u341	The government is delaying as much as it can the contracts we agreed even before the pandemic — 4200 professionals each year — condemning the National Health Service working with empty places, while dealing with the necessary casualties of the more than 6000 professionals affected by COVID, in this crisis. If the government wants to give up looking for doctors in private and fixing those trained in the National Health Service, do not count on our announcement. We do not accept that service closures are multiplied when they are more accurate. We know, both the Bloc and the Government, what is the solution: qualified technicians. And these people aren't numbers, they're gonna save the National Health Service. If there isn't a career with conditions, they don't come, and we need them today! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u342	So, Prime Minister, do the political games you want. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] Accuse us,... [[PS protests.]] He threatens us, applauds those who insult us. The Block won't change its voice. We will insist on the exclusiveness of the National Health Service, on the social support of those who have lost everything with the crisis, on the protection against dismissal, on the requirement against financial fraud. The Socialist Party will rise with the left in these structural matters and the Block will be there to enable a good budget. [[PS protests.]] We will approve a budget that responds to the emergency. We reject a budget that gives up Portugal. With reliable, concrete measures that mobilize sound answers, it counts with us. Without reliable and concrete measures, count with whoever you want, but the Left Block does not give up Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u343	Even André Ventura applauds!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u344	It is Mr Rui Rio's turn to use the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u345	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today discussed the State budget for 2021, in a framework of strong economic, health and social constraints. We are all aware of the pandemic that we are experiencing the condition and it compels us to increase rigour and concern for our collective future. In addition to this reality, which no one can deny, we also have the obvious constraints arising from economic and budgetary policy over the past five years. Four of these five years were favorable economic periods, which should have deserved a more focused governance for the future of the country and less concerned to please the elective customers of the PS and the parties who with it drew the line of direction that the country has followed. [[PSD applause.]] History and economic science teach us that crises are cyclical and that, therefore, a responsible government knows that in times of growth it must prepare the economy to achieve the robustness needed to face recession periods, that is, to be able to reduce the social problems arising from them. That's what the government didn't do. He did not make the necessary effort to strengthen our economy and our public finances in the period of economic growth we had between 2015 and 2019. Even worse: it was not enough for it to take advantage of the monetary policy of the European Central Bank, which caused a large fall in the interest rate of public debt and the rise in the dividends of the Banco de Portugal, the Government decided to increase the tax burden and lower the public investment so that it could increase its spending further. The value of the public debt decreased relative to the Product, but rose clearly in absolute value. We have wasted a favourable cycle not only to try to bring it to more reasonable levels, as, above all, to dynamize our economy from a structural point of view. These objectives have not been pursued and therefore the margin of manoeuvre that the country has today to face the economic and social crisis is much smaller than that which, in fact, could be. At the same time, public services, particularly at the level of the National Health Service, were degraded, which was collecting dysfunctions, the beginning of which dates back to the moment when, irresponsiblely, the Government decided to change the working time of the public service without taking care to prepare the system for it. [[PSD applause.]] Today, we have a SNS with serious failures in its response capacity and with greater difficulty in responding to the pandemic. We can and should have understanding for a lot, but it is not possible to have it for everything. Disorientation, lack of guidelines, permanent contradictions or lack of human resources are not failures that can be accepted in such an area sensitive to the lives of all of us. Nor is it at least acceptable for health centres not to receive people and, in many circumstances, they do not even answer the telephone. There will be no planning, but above all there will be a lack of consideration and respect, especially for those who have no other means to treat themselves as not the public health service. In March and April, almost everything could be excused for the uncertainty and the level of ignorance of all of us to respond effectively and safely at the beginning of the pandemic. But from there, society was acquiring knowledge and the government was beginning to have the means to better prepare the fight against a second wave, which was highly likely to be drawn on our horizon. I myself had the opportunity, in due course, to question here, directly, Mr Prime Minister on this issue. Unfortunately, we find that this preparation has not been properly programmed during the summer months and, therefore, the country has more difficulties today in combating COVID-19 than those which, by nature, would always have. It is fair to say that it would never be possible for a country to be fully prepared, but it is also fair to say that it was an obligation for those who govern us to make adequate planning for the best possible response to the second wave. [[PSD applause.]] It is not easy to understand that consistency can exist, for example, between the realization of the Front Party! or thousands of people side by side in an autodrome and the restrictive measures that, in parallel, we must impose on the daily life of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, because of the uncertainty and anxiety that it causes, the failures in the health response at nothing help economic recovery, marked by the urgent need to combat unemployment and strengthen our business fabric. This strategic objective implies necessarily having an economic and budgetary policy to support companies, which are those which, in the first place, can combat the high rate of unemployment at which we are discussing ourselves. Because of the ideological influence of the Communist Left, the Government has chosen to present a proposal for Budget that forgets the decisive importance of companies in the relaunching of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u346	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u347	They are those who produce, create jobs, export and invest and are also those who, in reverse sense, if they are not defended, will produce more failures, more unemployment and more social difficulties for many Portuguese people. This budget proposal that the PS built with whom it decided to share its political project does not look to our future. As in previous budgets, it is limited to looking at the present. And whoever comes back closes the door! [[PSD applause.]] In the full and grave economic and health crisis, the government announced to give everything at the same time, with little logic and weak criterion. For him, it is important to try to convince the Portuguese that there is no austerity. There may be unemployment and failures; there may be thousands of workers in layoff, with cuts of one third in their salary; there may be companies without capacity to pay their wages; there may be sectors of the economy stagnated; there may be socially devastated regions; there may be whole families in unemployment; there may be Portuguese without access to medical consultations and surgical interventions they need; even the mortality rate for non-COVID pathologies may be far above normal that, for the Government, the important thing is to have the discharge to say that, with him, there is no austerity. [[PSD applause.]] Let us then call it another name, perhaps even more ugly, because what we are experiencing is undoubtedly a period of anguish, uncertainty and suffering on the part of many thousands of Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u348	The empty, obsessive and meaningless speech repeated in each corner and corner that there is no austerity, in nothing solves it. What would actually help to solve these serious difficulties would be to have a government with the ability to present a budget without ideological complexes, which would fight with the best possible effectiveness the problems that are slaughtering the Portuguese daily. [[PSD applause.]] To distribute what you have for whom most accurate is fair and deserves our support and encouragement. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u349	But to distribute everything at the same time, what you have and what you don't have, is to engage in the future and deceive people. It is to give the false illusion of a facility that is not real and that may later have to be paid with unnecessary suffering. It is in difficult times that one sees who has the coldness and the courage of, in the name of the future, to endure with stoicity the difficulties of the present. These are precisely those attributes that we do not find in this proposal for a State Budget. in it we find, yes, the inability to, in the name of the future, confront with courage the reality of the present. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD continues to defend its usual objectives, such as budgetary balance, tax relief on taxpayers, reduction of debt, corporate capitalisation, support for exports and investment, public administration reform or reduction of structural public expenditure. All matters that a government politically supported by the communist left despises and fights, always opting for the reverse way. We are well aware of the constraints that are spreading the scope of budgetary policy today. We know that it would not be serious to demand the impossible, but it is decisive to defend the change of direction. It is not possible at the moment to reduce taxes, deficits or debt, nor an aggressive policy of export and investment support, but, as I said, it is absolutely essential to change course. It is possible to end a policy that only looks at the present and, as far as possible, initiates a new path of consistent support for the production and competitiveness of our economy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u350	A new path that, in the medium term, achieves higher economic growth rates, allowing us to have better jobs and better wages for all Portuguese people, allowing us to have a higher, more robust and better standard of living middle class, which, unlike the ideological options of the so-called'management', or what remains of it, allows us to end the poor and not the rich. [[PSD applause.]] What afflicts a social-democrat is not the existence of rich, it is the existence of poor. [[PSD applause.]] So betting on the future is to bet on raising the most disadvantaged to the level of a middle class at European level. To bet only on the present is to perpetuate, with slight variations, the situation of poverty and low wages that we have lived in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, for all the reasons stated, the PSD will vote against this proposal for a State budget for 2021. We also do so with the tranquillity of those who have been informed, by the law, that their project has to be left and that therefore any other sense of vote of the PSD would have no effect on economic stability or the prevention of an inappropriate political crisis. We've got good feet on the ground. We guide ourselves for the national interest and thus we will always renounce demagogy, populism and facilitation. That's our line. So it was with her that we, in conscience, made our decision. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u351	It is now the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u352	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Five years ago we chose the parliamentary partners on the left. This path, it is recalled, has allowed in the last five years a path of economic growth, the creation of more than 350 000 jobs, the increase in Portuguese income, the increase in pensions, the increase in the national minimum wage, we have had the best ever deficit, a public debt that started to come down and we have gained credibility in international bodies. On 6 October 2019 the Portuguese voted, increased the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and called for a union of efforts on the left to continue the path of the previous Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u353	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u354	And no, Mrs Catarina Martins, has never heard of the Socialist Party or the Government's failure to continue our left-wing efforts in this Parliament. Never! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the honourable Member must remember that the Left Block, soon in October 2019, said : « we do not want anything for the legislature, we will measure the measure, budget the budget ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u355	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u356	We do not give up on the junction of efforts to the left and that is how we have worked. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] Thus, we have interpreted the election results and therefore the State Budget for 2020 was built on the left. None of us had supposed that in March 2020 we would still be hit, incalculable as to its effects, by a pandemic which has serious health consequences and which, because of it, has brought economic and social consequences. It was in this context that we presented an Supplementary Budget, because we had a budget surplus, to respond to the effects of the pandemic, and we responded with the strengthening of the National Health Service, with social protection for those who had nothing, with public school and with support for businesses and jobs. The budget for 2021 is, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a prudent, responsible budget, in times of uncertainty, without retreat and with strengthening the social state and the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that responds to the challenges we are facing in this pandemic, it is good for families, it is good for workers, it is good for companies, it is good for the social state, it strengthens the National Health Service, the public school, social security. It doesn't increase taxes, it doesn't cut income, it doesn't have austerity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since July we have had negotiations between the Government and our partners on the left. Yes, we continue to favour the construction of solutions with the parliamentary left, not forgetting that it is the PS that governs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not to compromise, to negotiate is to make commitments and that is why the proposal under consideration in this Parliament is the result of negotiations. This is the beginning of the road and not the end of the path that the Left Block wants to impose. Many of the measures that the CFP, the ENP, the EB and the NAP have put on the negotiating table are included in this proposal for a State Budget and it is also against its proposals that the Left Block will vote on. [[P.S.'s applause.]] from the PS side, we will to the end maintain our commitment to negotiate in the field of expertise until the global final vote, because no one will understand that leaving the country at a difficult time like what we live. It is not enough to cry crocodile tears, to say that no one stays behind and from here wash his hands as if there was no responsibility to respond with this Budget to the greatest crisis of our times. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members; eight months ago we entered an unknown land. All of us, like Portuguese, have been called to fight our lives, to this unknown, treacherous, invisible war. We fight the common enemy that flows through our streets, that breaks through family dinners, that postpones hugs and prolongs misses. That is why, before the unknown, we will not give up, nor will we ever give up, before fear, resist and, before the emergency, act. in a unique situation, never comparable to any period in our history, we strengthened, without precedent, the National Health Service: more health professionals, more equipment, more investment. In the race for personal protective equipment we reinvent ourselves as Country. The factories in our country joined in the national effort to have fans, masks, gloves, skyscrapers. The workers were assured that they would not fall in despair of not having to put food on the table. Schools have made years to adapt to new technologies and, from home, have ensured education and knowledge for our young people and our children. The way, the strength, the determination with which we have been fighting the pandemic since the first hour is also based on the decisions of the past, taken in common. over the last five State budgets we valued public services, balanced public accounts, reduced public debt, worked for low interest rates as never. It was a work of the Socialist Party, but it was a work to which the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Ecological Party « The Greens» did not lack, and they did not lack because, in our differences, we were able to converge against austerity and not miss when we all realized that there was hope, an alternative for the country that did not pass through the continuation of impoverishment, a strategy that generated unemployment, poverty, pain and hunger. Our crisis strategy is therefore in its entirety different from that on the right. And it is in this dichotomy of strategies that we await the natural and obvious support of our partners on the left. This is the strategy that we have built together in the last five budgets and that this budget reinforces. Today, that the need is more pressing, that the requirement is immediate, that the national interest most accurate of us, today it is time for no one to miss the call, as we did not miss in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Rui Rio, we are not mistaken at the speech you have just made, because the PSD has already told what it comes through these weeks: it wants to repeat the recipe, either strangely helping companies impoverishing the country. The solution, Mr President, is not to return to austerity, the solution is not the minimum state, the solution is not to privatise basic functions and public services, the solution is not the State to turn its back on Portuguese. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] The social sensitivity of this budget naturally departs from the proposed solutions to Parliament's right. Anyone who had doubts that the parliamentary right learned nothing since the times when he had an idea and how program going beyond the troika could have failed them yesterday and today, hearing the PSD and CDS in this debate, but also the new parties on the right, who would have beaten palms to the ruinous strategy then followed, in 2011. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For Dr. Rui Rio, we will give everything to everyone, a distribution budget, is, for the PSD, we know it, a royalty. We know that rights for the PSD are royal; that increasing the national minimum wage for the PSD is royal; that increasing pensions for the PSD is royal; that increasing the salaries of the public service—of our teachers, of our doctors and nurses—for the PSD, is royal. [[PSD protests.]] There is therefore no surprise at the vote of the parliamentary right, and that is why there is always an alternative in democracy and the alternative proposed by the PS is contrary to that of the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said it and repeat it: the Portuguese are waiting for the PS and the left parliament to seek understanding for better solutions, to respond to the difficult times we live in. We can talk a lot about this budget proposal, but it cannot be said that the government has not negotiated, has not sought approximations, has not incorporated ideas that are presented to it. It's been like this for five years! For five years the Government has come to Parliament with a concerted proposal with the partners on the left and gives this Parliament the opportunity to improve the work of convergence we are doing here. Why would it be different this year? It's no different! Seeking approximations was always a possible exercise in normal times, but it is an absolute obligation in exceptional times. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the Socialist Party's bench we see no reason why the way of convergence for the last five years cannot and should not be continued again by the same forces that changed policies from 2015 onwards. Law and Relieve the Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u357	It was very well read! ...it's better to read!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u358	... and, at each reading, I find a strengthening of the path of dignity, of improving public services, of seeking greater social cohesion, of fair sharing of wealth, of promoting the modernization of the economy and of increasing the competitiveness of the country. This year, in an exceptionally difficult exercise, the Portuguese ask for progressive forces to continue together. I know it costs to the right, because, for some, there are Portuguese first and second,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u359	...that they should not have any social benefits. But, Mr. André Ventura, that is not the politics of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] by voting against this Budget, the Left Block deserted the battlefield and stands incomprehensiblely on the right. Vote against a new social benefit for income protection, which covers 258,000 people. It votes against the strengthening of more than EUR 1000 million in the SNS and the hiring of more than 4,200 health professionals. Vote against the risk allowance of health professionals who are in the front line of the fight against COVID-19. Vote against the increase in lower pensions, from January onwards. It votes against a budget that does not transfer—in fact, it is noted, the total absence of this issue, in this debate, after so many weeks to hear about it—public money for the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u360	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u361	Vote against the fight against precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It votes against the obligation of large businesses with profits, and which have tax benefits, to maintain the level of employment. Votes against the increase in unemployment benefit. It votes against its own proposals, which are in this bill. Why would you vote for the Left Block against? Is it because it's easier? Is it to be more comfortable to be out of the way when the situation is difficult? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Or why do you not want to share the risk of managing this crisis? Say what they say, choose this moment to leave the whole left and go to the right arms is a sign of tremendous irresponsibility, of whom we are all afraid of facing the greatest crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, Mrs. Member, the Left Block has given up people. Today, each of us will take full responsibility for this particularly difficult moment. Out there is a country that awaits us, of each one of us, that we respond to his troubles, his suffering, his pain, that we do not turn their backs and give them hope to keep their incomes, his employment, his company, food at the table every day, the school of their children,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...care for older people, social protection, which only a decent society is capable of giving. There is a country out there that knows that here today, within moments, two distinct options are voted for the country: on the one hand, the option of the Government, the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the NAP and the two non-registered Members to continue the path of the last five years, to protect incomes, to value work, to strengthen public services — in particular the SNS —, to create wealth with more qualifications and more competitiveness of our companies. on the other hand, the other option: against the increase in national minimum wage, against the new social benefit, against the investment effort in the National Health Service, against the protection of employment, against the response to the social emergency with the increase in unemployment benefit, against measures that ensure that no Portuguese will be below the poverty threshold,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u362	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u363	... against the increase in public investment. Obviously, when the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival get up to chum this budget proposal, in general, the Left Block will be standing, in the photograph, voting next to this right and this option. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CH protests.]] Out there there is a country that asks for answers, without fear of ruling, without fear of winning the invisible enemy, without fear of sharing the risk of managing the greatest crisis that each one of us lives and that we never imagine living. In democracy there are always alternatives. The choice of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is clear: we are next to the Portuguese, working hard with the government to overcome this crisis. This is the Budget that protects income. It is the Budget that protects purchasing power and protects economic activity. The Socialist Party does not run away from the demands of the moment. We will vote for the recovery of the economy, for the protection of employment and income, for the fight against the pandemic, we will vote for the SNS, we will vote for the public school. We will vote in favour, Portugal and the Portuguese! [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u364	To conclude the closing phase of the debate, the floor is for an intervention, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first case of SARS-CoV 2 infection was confirmed last March 2 in our country. In the few eight months since then, our collective life has essentially been determined by the impact of the pandemic. In Portugal, as in the rest of Europe, as in the rest of the world, the fight against disease has become central in the way each one of us relates to the others, as our companies organize themselves, as we decided to allocate state resources. All over the world, governments initially sought to contain the spread of the disease by the oldest known method, quarantine, confinement. As a result, world economic activity has experienced the most sudden and violent contraction since there are records. A public health crisis has become a global economic and social crisis. Unpublished resources in times of peace were used to strengthen the response capacity of health services; massive support was used to support businesses and preserve employment; new responses were used to protect the income of those who were deprived of professional activity. Public debt, throughout the Western world, rose to levels only parallel to World War II. Today, we know much more about this virus, we know better about its mechanisms of propagation, we have improved the disease treatment capacity that it causes and an unprecedented effort of scientific and industrial research around the world, with a view to developing, producing and distributing a safe and effective vaccine from the beginning of next year. And yet... however, this virus continues to surprise us and condition the entire political agenda. So far, the disease has already affected 43 million people worldwide and the number of deaths has already reached 1,2 million. A second wave, which everyone expected for the winter, arose a few weeks earlier, with an intensity and speed that surprised populations and governments. Throughout Europe and the United States, the numbers of new contagions beat records every day, admissions and deaths exceed the numbers of this spring. Countries that had been relatively saved in the first wave are now among those in which growth is greater. Those most affected nations at the beginning of the year are again whipped by new and intense cases of the disease. In view of this scenario, governments seek to contain the progression of the disease and announce new and demanding restrictions, in the face of the tiredness of the people and the growing opposition of some fringes of public opinion. But throughout Europe, regardless of the system of government or party guidance, numbers grow and societies seek to respond to the emergency. The situation is serious throughout Europe. For much planning, for many resources at your disposal, Germany and France have just announced more restrictive measures. So in the world, in Portugal, the fight against pandemics, in the health front and in the economic and social front, continues to be the central issue that our society faces and in the discussion and vote of the next State budget must also be the central issue. In the health front, the reflection of this objective, in the Budget, is in the substantial strengthening of public services, with SNS at the head; in the economic and social front, the strengthening of employment support, from incentives to innovative businesses and social policies is emphasized. During this debate, much was discussed how the proposed budget law responds — badly, some said — to the needs of public services and social problems. Now let me be more attentive to the answer on the economic front, whose discussion seemed to me uniquely distorted in these two days. And for that, I have to share with the ladies and gentlemen. Three distinct notes, which are also answers to questions raised during the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u366	The Liberals are being shot!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u367	The first note concerns how our companies are affected, in the economic front. For a strong exporting nation, as Portugal has become in recent years, the fall in demand in our main markets has led to a devastating impact. Exports fell from January to August, 23, 6 % in terms of counterparts. Private investment, in the face of uncertainty about the development of the health situation, has decreased significantly and private consumption, taking into account the breakdown of income and the fear of the future, has contracted at levels of several years ago. During the debate, we heard some of you. Members pointed out that the Budget has forgotten the economy, that it only 'distributes what it has and what it does not have' and forgets the creation of wealth, that companies invest and create jobs and that the government should have chosen to support companies through tax reduction rather than strengthen public expenditure or social transfers. However, we must be frank. If, in the last five years, the growth of our economy has been driven by companies, which have invested, exported, created jobs, the fact is that in the coming years, faced with the uncertainty of the health situation, it will not be the private sector that is pulling back. In the face of a falling economy, companies, if delivered to themselves, would cut costs — starting with labour costs, redeploying or reducing wages — and defer investment decisions. The more solid companies could, perhaps, endure, waiting for better days. The others, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up 99% of our business fabric, have now closed or become insolvent, failing to fulfil their commitments to third parties. In any case, the economic consequences would be devastating: galloping unemployment, destruction of savings and accumulated knowledge, growing poverty and a lasting crisis. In the face of a falling economy, companies will have no profits; lowering the IRC, a profit tax, in the year in which the crisis will erase profitability, would not only be useless, would be a cruel irony. Today, companies know that they do not find in a shrinking market the possibility to sustain their activity. On the contrary, well-managed companies, which have grown and created jobs before the pandemic, complain today—and well! — State support: support for the payment of wages, support for the dynamisation of its activities, support for its capitalisation, support for the adaptation of its facilities to the new health rules. Therefore, in the face of a shrinking economy, economic policy must sustain the business fabric in a way that cannot come from the market. And that is precisely the choice of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what happened in the last crisis, the State will not aggravate a weak economic situation, resigning itself from supporting the economy or simply reducing taxes. On the contrary, the State is willing to increase expenditure, transfer resources to the economy and stimulate economic activity, assuming the countercyclical vocation of this Budget. The second note deals with the instruments at our disposal for combating the crisis. The gentlemen. Members discussed the budget proposal and found shortcomings and shortcomings in it, saying that there would be, above all, support for the economy. It is normal because the State budget for 2021 does not exhaust the instruments available to the country to combat the crisis. The gentlemen. Members have forgotten from the outset the possibility of companies fully recovering tax losses in 2020 and 2021 over the following 12 years, a measure already approved in the 2020 Supplementary Budget. This is a measure that alone corresponds to the most significant reduction in corporate tax effort in recent decades, which will have an impact not in 2021, but over the next few years when companies return to business. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, apart from the national resources of which the Budget is expressed, Portugal has an unprecedented set of resources from the European Union to combat the crisis. Among these resources is the Next Generation EU programme, which includes the European tool for recovery and resilience. For Portugal, this programme transfers around EUR 15 billion into grants from next year onwards. And we also have the national envelope of the Invest EU program, to be channeled to companies, through the Portuguese Development Bank. All of this is money that, by being made available to Member States without national counterpart and in the form of grants, enables them to support the recovery without any disparities between countries under the conditions of financing on the market. Together with these instruments is the SURE programme, which funds the Member States' responses to the health and social crisis, particularly in employment maintenance programmes. In the PRR, there are resources to help companies regain their role as job and investment creators after normalisation of the economy. We are prepared to mobilise all resources if the economic situation so demands for support for employment and businesses. In view of the withdrawal of demand, the State also fulfils the dynamisation of the economy through public investment and, among other things, we will finance investments that, by serving long-term objectives of our community, contribute immediately to the dynamisation of our companies and the creation of jobs, as is the case with investment in homes and day care, with the improvement of energy efficiency in private buildings, with the elimination of architectural barriers in public buildings, or with the strengthening of the public housing park, which will have the greatest financial envelope in the history of our democracy. This is a countercyclical budget, where primary expenditure increases at least 4 % over the past year, adding to this extraordinary social support. But, as we have seen, the public expenditure financed by the State budget is far from exhausting, on the contrary, the resources that will be put at the disposal of the economy to stimulate economic growth. In order to make use of these resources as early as possible, at the service of citizens and businesses, the proposal for a State budget law provides that expenditure on these funds may be anticipated as from the beginning of the year. My third note refers to how the Government proposes that public resources be mobilised in the near future. The State budget proposal assumes a clear response to the crisis, and this option is determined by the values that we have outlined. These values are, above all, those of solidarity and collective protection of the dignity of all citizens, regardless of their personal circumstances or the circumstances of the economy. A decent society is always mobilized, particularly in times of crisis, to protect the most fragile and support those who are suddenly deprived of their work. The budget proposal therefore reinforces the unemployment allowance and proposes the creation of an extraordinary social benefit, which ensures that those who are deprived of other sources of income are not below the poverty threshold. There were those who in this debate talked about subsidies for those who do not want to work. What a horrible expression! We are talking about independent workers who have stopped finding in the market the possibility of encrusting their own livelihood and that of their families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are talking about young workers who have fallen into unemployment before they gather the time needed to receive their allowance; we are talking about domestic workers who have lost income at this time. Speaking in subsidies for those who do not want to work, in this regard, is a way of denying the most basic values of a civilized community! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But as we move forward with the proposal for this benefit, we are not only reaffirming essential values of solidarity with our fellow citizens, these measures are also good economic policy. To approve an extraordinary social benefit that prevents many of our citizens from falling into poverty, such as reducing withholding taxes at source, such as increasing the minimum wage, all these measures allow to increase the income of families and avoid a fall in domestic consumption, which is indispensable to support our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the coming months, the country and the world will continue to focus on combating the pandemic. We have no doubt that the health situation will continue to demand restrictive measures that will have a negative impact on the economy and society. Therefore, more than ever, the State will need to have tools to mitigate this impact and to protect families, workers and businesses. Budget is one of these tools and the country cannot run the risk of facing this crisis without this tool. Vote against this Budget does not guarantee any more resources, better responses to the crisis, more flexibility or more investment, only condemns the country to navigate the next and uncertain times without support for families, workers and businesses. And this does not ensure political clarification, but only more uncertainty, more anxiety, more suffering. Perhaps there are those who think that it can take political advantage of the degradation of social and economic conditions, and there are those who, in times of difficulty, do not give up and take responsibility for working to solve the problems we face. We did not create this crisis, but it is up to us all to fight it. In our democratic system, it is for the Government to draw up a proposal for a budget and for Parliament to discuss it and approve it. In the face of this pandemic — surprising and overwhelming — and in view of its economic and social impact, the Government is presenting to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for Budget which, together with all the other resources, takes a response to the crisis which is assumed to be the opposite of that of 10 years ago. I am very convinced that the response to the last crisis — the famous idea of 'expansionist austerity' — has aggravated the country's economic situation, destroyed thousands of companies and unnecessarily extended the suffering of many families. Now, the policy options reflected in this budget proposal are simple and clear: to strengthen the necessary funds for public health and the treatment of patients; to ensure the maintenance of employment through business support, allowing them to preserve their productive capacity and critical human resources; to launch support for liquidity and business solvency, avoiding widespread closures; and to support the performance of those who have been deprived of their work or independent professional activity. These measures should remain as long as they are necessary and should be extended, as necessary, until the normalisation of the economy and the stabilization of the health situation. It's simple and it's clear! It's up to the ladies now. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to decide whether to appreciate this proposal and continue the discussion on it, thus giving the country the opportunity to go through this crisis with a safety reference. The Government remains fully available to continue this discussion for the benefit of Portugal. I have every confidence that, having overcome this pandemic that we have not created, demonstrating and continuing to demonstrate the determination and sense of community that, so far, we have given evidence, the Portuguese come, once again, to overcome this crisis and to resume the sustained path of building a more just society, in which our collective prosperity is based on the bet on qualifications, knowledge and innovation and offers everyone the opportunity here, in our country, to fulfill their personal and professional aspirations. And that, I'm sure, is a purpose for which we can all recognize each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u368	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a position to move to the last point of our agenda today, i.e. the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Since the quorum has been guaranteed for many hours, let us therefore begin the votes. We begin by voting, in general, Law No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] The bill that we have just voted down to 5. the Commission. Following the Vote Project No. 361 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by a PSD Member ) — Despite the death of writer and journalist Helena Marques. I ask the Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is from the following content: « The journalist Helena Marques died last week. Born in Carcavelos, daughter of Madeiran parents, Helena Marques dedicated herself to journalism, a profession that she has practiced for 36 years, beginning her career in Madeira News Diary and finishing her professional journey in the News Diary, in which she served as assistant director. His rich and diversified journey by journalism was worth him, in 1986, the Journalist Prize of the Year, of the Women's magazine, and the Prize Gazette of Merit, in 2013. At the same time, as a writer, he became known for various works of fiction, the first of which The Last Cais of 1992, which earned him the Grand Prix of Romance and Novela of the Portuguese Association of Writers, the Ler / Circle of Readers Revista Prize, the Maximum Prize of Revelation, the Prokólio Prize of Literature and the Bordallo Prize of Literature of the House of Press. Other titles were followed in the following years, such as The Goddess Sitting, Third Persons, The Red Ibis of Guyana, the Counties Islands and the German Bazar, which made Helena Marques one of the Portuguese writers consecrated and loved by the public. In 2001, the writer and journalist was thanked by the President of the Republic with the rank of Commander of the Infant Order D. Henrique. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to Helena Marques, for her professional journey and for her cultural intervention, conveying her deepest condolences to her family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u370	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Following the Vote Project No 356 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and signed by PS Deputies and a PSD Member ) — Congratulations to Antonio Félix da Costa, winner of the World FIA Formula E Championship 2020. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 699 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the simplification of the legal regime for issuing multi-purpose medical certificates and the adoption of urgent measures to speed up the issuance and revalidation of such certificates. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigueseabstentions of PS, BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 664 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government maintain an integrated policy on animal health and welfare for pet animals by strengthening the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, votes in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and abstentions from non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of the PS Francisco Rocha and Joaquim Barreto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u371	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u372	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u373	To announce that I will deliver a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u374	All right. Be registered. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 704 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to provide the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary of the financial, human and technical resources necessary to fulfil the powers conferred on it. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and PS Member Ascension Simões, votes against PS and PAN and abstentions from CH, non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Francisco Rocha and Joaquim Barreto.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 711 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary and all its functions under the protection of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and Abstentions of BE, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the Deputies of the PS Francisco Rocha and Joaquim Barreto.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, can we vote together on the draft resolutions that follow in the vote script, which relate to the same subject?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u375	Mr President, by us, we can vote together on all the draft resolutions, with the exception of the last one, which we ask to be voted on separately. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u376	Thus, and since there are no objections, we will vote together in general the Resolution Projects Nos. 624 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Requalification of Snake Secondary School, 633 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the immediate requalification of the Secondary School of Serpa, 655 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the urgent realization of works at the Serpa High School, 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government urgently promote the retraining of the Secondary School of Serpa and 681 / XIV / 2. a (PV) — Urgent requalification of the Serpa Secondary School. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Resolution Project No. 703 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Serpa Secondary School. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] These draft resolutions are down to 8. Meanwhile, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will give some information to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he has submitted to the Bureau a report and opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which concerns the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos ( PS ), an electoral circle of Braga, being replaced by Pompeu Miguel Noval da Rocha Martins, with effect from 2 November 2020 until 2 December of the same year. The opinion is in the sense of the suspension of the Member and the replacement in question to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u378	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u379	It also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, the Resolution Project No 746 / XIV / 2. a. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-28.u380	Mrs. Members, our next plenary meeting will take place on 24 November, at 10 a.m., with the beginning of the discussion, in the specialty, of the Bill Nos 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Law of the Great Options for 2021 - 2023 and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2021. Thank you all very much for your good work these two days at the plenary. I also thank the services, the Bureau and all those who were here. Good work for everyone, now in the specialty. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 52 minutes.]]
