ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. We will start our work with the general discussion of Bill No. 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries. To open the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The context of the submission of this bill is that of the presentation of a set of initiatives to combat tax elections. In past legislation, we had the opportunity to transpose the Directive designated by ATAD ( Anti-Tax Notice Directive ) 1. What we are now doing is transposing the so-called ATAD 2 with regard to hybrid asymmetries. What are hybrid asymmetries? It is precisely the use of disparities between tax systems, different jurisdictions, in terms of the fixing of the tax base. These asymmetries occur because there are differences of legal qualification, either from entities or in terms of payments, but also differences in the imputation of expenditure and income of the same entity, in one jurisdiction or in another. These differences of qualification generate potential tax elition situations that materialise or in situations of double deduction, in which the same payment is duly deducted, either in the jurisdiction of origin, or in the jurisdiction of income, but also in situations of deduction without inclusion, i.e. deductions of a particular payment whose income was not taxed in the relevant jurisdiction. That is why the transposition of this directive is to create uniform rules at European Union level to neutralise these effects, either double deduction or deduction without inclusion. The transposition of this directive closes, as I said, the transposition of the ATAD directives, which are a consequence of the OECD initiative ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), by making these rules uniform within the European Union, certainly contributing to a more fair tax system where companies have to pay their share of tax, and thereby finding a smooth fight against the erosion of taxable bases. Of course, I am at the disposal of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for any matter they intend to raise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u3	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, more than a request for clarification, I would like to comment on this proposal for a law which today, in fact, transposes a directive which, being very technically complex, seems to be peaceful: because it is a European directive that we have to transpose; because it is intended to prevent abuses of the use of loopholes of tax legislation, in particular in those that distort competition, which we very much like to fight; and because it is limited in the subjects of hybrid asymmetries to seven specific cases, very well defined, usually applicable to companies with great market power. We like all that. But first of all, it must also be said that this bill invokes the fight against aggressive tax planning without ever defining exactly the limits and boundaries of this « aggressiveness », leaving it in the air that tax planning is, in any event, criminal. It's good to get rid of this right now. Paying less taxes, within existing laws, is a right of any taxpayer, and for those who manage money from others, I would say that it is not just a right, it is even an obligation. Secondly, it would be good to have so much diligence as to what the Portuguese and European authorities devote to this matter in relation to situations where the taxpayer is on the other side, i.e. not when this is the defaulter but suffers in cases of double taxation, in cases of bad faith litigation or in cases of tax inefficiencies of all kinds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u5	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. To charge more the State and AT (Tributary Authority) appear soon, but to help taxpayers or see them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u7	You have the floor to answer, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u8	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, thank you very much for the question you have raised. I do not fully follow the speech of the honourable Member to the following extent: I believe that we cannot underestimate abusive tax planning, and that is what we are talking about. Tax planning itself has a tenuous line between promoting tax evasion and even tax fraud, and what is lawful. That is why fiscal elections are much more difficult to combat than tax evasion and fraud, that is, because they look like legality. The excessive tax planning — that is the concern that the honourable Member brings here and is a proper concern — is the planning of the use of tax rules for purposes other than those of the tax system, that is, with the clear intention of circumventing payment situations due to tax. So what we are here avoiding is that companies can deduct the same expenditure in two jurisdictions or that they can deduct a expenditure in a jurisdiction without paying the income tax they have obtained in the same jurisdiction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u9	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This proposed law that we analyze today aims to neutralize the effects of hybrid asymmetries and aims to solve the tax problem not to be charged or not to be charged in the country where the generation of profits and the generation of value occur. As you know, in the CDS we are in favour of fiscal competitiveness and we believe that in Portugal the tax regime must be competitive, but that does not mean closing our eyes — quite the contrary! — abuse of fiscal planning. Therefore, all measures to prevent the use of tax planning for purposes other than those for which they were created and prevent situations in which, simply and simply, there is less tax collection in both States or deduction in one State occurs without the corresponding inclusion in the tax base of another State, we will have our support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u11	Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We all recognize in this Chamber that fiscal elections are an unacceptable source of inequalities, insofar as it offers a competitive advantage, as mentioned here by the Secretary of State, to companies that fail to meet the meeters. over the past few years, the PSD has always defended, with concrete measures, the fight against tax electoral, whether it was in government, or when it was in opposition. It was in the reform of the PSD/CDS Government's IRC that various principles were poured into the law that today are part of the tax electoral package. It is also worth recalling that in the previous Parliament, the PSD presented an initiative — that of the Green Card on Fiscal and Financial Transparency — that if it was adopted by a minimum number of national parliaments, it could have become European legislation in order to strengthen the exchange of information between the Member States of the European Union, but also to combat, in a more efficient way, the tax election. Tax electoral strategies are estimated to deprive the public budgets of several countries of several billion euros. In addition, they compromise the fair sharing between the duties defined for taxpayers and fair competition between companies. As mentioned above, companies take advantage of the complexity of tax rules and the lack of cooperation between States to relocate profits and minimize their taxes. Each person must pay the tax part he or she is entitled to. This principle applies both to companies and to all taxpayers. Unfair tax competition between States and third countries in the European Union affects the functioning of the single market, thereby recognizing the importance of fair and fair taxation for the competitiveness of economies. Regulating hybrid asymmetries — avoiding aggressive tax planning techniques — requires a harmonious application of rules from different countries and jurisdictions, thus combating unfair tax competition. For this reason, the PSD will support this initiative, and obviously there is room for improvements in the field of expertise. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, this debate is also an opportunity to think about the challenges facing companies in the area of taxation. The PSD has repeatedly stated that Portugal is currently paying one of the highest rates of IRC in Europe, considering the higher rate of spillovers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u13	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u14	Now, if we want a more developed, more competitive economy, if we want stronger companies, if we want to attract more investments, we will necessarily also have to consider reducing IRC. It is also a way to avoid aggressive tax planning or tax electoral strategies, allowing the country to take this path to combat tax election, and this suggestion is therefore included here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u15	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In May of last year, with Law No. 32 / 2019, the Government transposed almost all of the directives to combat the tax elite ATAD 1 and 2, but left out hybrid asymmetries. So, on the basis of the Government's option and because the directive allowed it, we are today — 4 years after the directive has gone out — to discuss this matter. And what are hybrid asymmetries? They are another scheme, another aggressive tax planning technique, used by multinationals. Basically, these multinationals, when they have entities based in different countries, use the difference in legal qualifications, payments or entities themselves in order to make a double deduction of income. The proposal for a law, which, in fact, follows from the European directive itself, sins late and sins due to being insufficient. The acclaimed plan to combat fraud and tax evasion launched by the European Commission in 2015 did not go through a fire, with timely, isolated, fragmented and uncoupled initiatives, as is the case with this one we are talking about. The European Union, with regard to the promotion of high finance, does not give a point without knots. These directives do not touch on the essential point of tax havens. Even when they imposed a criterion for taxation in the country of origin, this applies only when the third country's tax rate is less than 40 % of the country of origin, i.e. does not apply to countries such as Ireland, the Netherlands or Luxembourg, countries that continue to live up to aggressive tax planning. Portugal is highly damaged by these schemes. Just see how big companies like Jerome Martins, donna do Pino Doce, continues to place his headquarters in the Netherlands, to escape the taxes he should pay in Portugal, because this is where he makes his profits. In the State Budget, the CFP presented a proposal that ended these schemes and that guarantees that the profits made in Portugal were taxed in the country, a proposal that was rejected by PS, PSD, CDS and also by the Liberal Initiative and by the Arrival, the real arc of the system at the service of the great transnational capital. [[Exactly! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u17	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not cosmetic or propaganda measures that solve the problems of fraud and tax evasion. You need to put your finger on the wound. As long as we insist on the liberalization of capital movements, as long as we continue to have laws on the basis of financial multinationals, as long as we do not move towards public control over the bank and the financial system, scandals, money laundering, fraud, evasion and tax evasion will continue to be the paradigm for the real economy, economic development and social progress. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u18	Mr Hugo Carvalho, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today here the amendment of the Code of the Tax on Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries. Hybrid asymmetries result from the use of disparities between tax systems of different jurisdictions in basic tax matters. It is therefore an important issue and on which we have an obligation to act to ensure that there is no fiscal election.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u21	The set of European initiatives that we have been transposing to the national legal order is aimed at ensuring fairer and more efficient corporate taxation and at strengthening the overall protection of tax systems against aggressive tax planning. The amendments proposed here to the IRC Code aim essentially to neutralise the tax effects of tax evasion practices, preventing the entities involved from benefiting from double tax deductions, lower tax rates and, to the limit, a reduction in the effective taxation of their profits. We cannot accept as normal practice that a company acts in order to reduce its tax revenue by taking advantage of the disparities between tax systems in different countries, either by benefiting from reduced tax rates or by the absence of effective taxation of the profits it obtains. We can't look at that lightly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u23	We need mechanisms aimed primarily at multinational companies aiming at tax election operations to ensure that everyone pays what they really have to pay. The effect of hybrid asymmetries is normally expressed in two ways: in double deduction, i.e. in simultaneous deduction of expenditure or loss in both the jurisdiction of origin and the jurisdiction of investment, and in the deduction without inclusion, i.e. in deduction of a payment in the jurisdiction of origin without recognition of that payment as income in the jurisdiction of the beneficiary. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, recognizing what has been said today, the neutralization of the effects of hybrid asymmetries is an instrument to combat the new tax electoral system in our national legal system and that meets the international commitments made in this area. We are sure that we will continue to work to build a significant advance in the fight against tax elections, which all must join in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u24	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This law, which transposes parts of the anti-election tax directives, known internationally as ATAD 1 and 2, is already late. Member States had until 1 January 2020 to transpose it into national legal order and it is therefore important to know what justified the delay in the transposition of a directive which was adopted in May 2017. The fight against tax evasion and election is one of the most important things that the European Union has to do for a number of reasons: for a matter of equality, for each year to see millions of euros of tax revenue escape from among the fingers that could be used effectively in the enormous challenges ahead, but above all, for a matter of justice. It is shameful that the overwhelming majority of taxpayers are thoroughly intimidated to pay all and any taxes and that large multinationals continue to escape most taxes, taking advantage of the tax disparities between the various countries and all the artifacts existing in the tax landscape. This proposal is intended to lay down rules to neutralise the effects of hybrid asymmetries between States by combating aggressive taxation optimization plans and by defining for all those payments that must really be part of the tax base, even if they are considered deductible in another jurisdiction, except for small exceptions. This is a fight for everyone and for everyone. We hope that there will be consensus in this House to transpose all these laws that strengthen tax authorities in the fight against one of the greatest economic scourges of our time. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u26	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The right to manage business activities so as not to pay more taxes than those due is constitutional, and that is not what is at stake. What is at stake is aggressive tax planning, what is at stake is tax elections, which, in turn, call into question the financing of States and, more than that, today is also calling into question the legitimacy of the tax system itself and the way in which we finance public services. While most large companies and large multinationals simply run away from taxes by moving their profits to jurisdictions where these tax rates are much lower or manage their operations in order to take advantage of the most favourable schemes here and there, while this happens, the tax burden will fall on consumers through indirect taxes or will fall on those who cannot escape, who are the workers, in particular workers on behalf of others. Therefore, the only way we have to bring sustainability and legitimacy to the tax system and ensure that we have to finance public services, which are increasingly demanding, is to ensure that companies contribute their share to tax revenue and not run away as they do today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u29	There are two ways to do this: the first is with transparency, and on this we will talk at the next point of this debate, and the second is by limiting the operations of the companies themselves, and one way of doing this limitation is by not allowing the abuse of the various jurisdictions to make a double non-taxation, a double deduction of some costs or a non-taxation either here or there. But it has already been said, sirs. Members, and I reiterate: while the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) allows the use of offshore and while the European Union allows regimes such as Malta, which Isabel dos Santos so well used to hide its heritage, while allowing regimes such as the Netherlands, where all ISP-20 companies have the headquarters, while allowing regimes such as Luxembourg, which had a secret system of tax benefits to large companies planned by the man who later was presiding over the European Commission, while allowing regimes such as Ireland, then there is no directive that will help us to combat tax abuse and loss of tax revenue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u31	We will vote in favour of this measure, because we think it is an important step forward, but in no way fights or stops the problem at its core. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u32	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A proposal is under discussion that aims to combat tax elections and goes in a fundamental and indispensable sense of what we have to do today. It is important, however, that, especially in the field of expertise, some issues that are on the table can be discussed and clarified. In fact, as has been said, we cannot continue to have a regime that wants to end aggressive tax planning but we continue to have countries that we all know are tax havens and are off the list of tax havens. We can't and we have to do something about it. We all have several examples of what we're talking about here. Above all, we are playing in the IRC Code, a tax that should have already been much more flexible and much lower, as, indeed, the reform that was introduced at the beginning should have planned. We have reached a point where we have the worst examples of IRC in Europe, not that the rate alone guarantees more investment and more development, but we have reached a point where IRC, because of its complexity and bureaucracy, which is pointed out by the OECD itself, is today a disgraceful Portuguese tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u34	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u35	I shall conclude by saying the following: this proposal is important — it will have the positive vote of the Arrival — and therefore, in the field of expertise, some of these criteria should be defined in a more precise and clarified manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u36	For a second intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is just to say that it is surprising to see Mr Ventura taking part in this debate. It is that you promised, when you applied, that you would perform your duties exclusively, which you don't, and you don't do it working for a company that does fiscal consulting. Look at that, fiscal consulting! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Therefore, Mr Deputy, who comes here today to talk about tax planning and to fight tax planning, provides paid services, while he is a Member, to a company whose work is precisely to allow companies to run tax and pay less taxes. The inconsistencies of Mr André Ventura must be affirmed and the conflict of interest which he expressed in this debate too. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u38	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u39	For a second intervention, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is, of course, pleased to note the consensus on the rules to be transposed by this bill. I just wanted to tell the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are very important to bear in mind that the effective rate of IRC in Portugal fell from 25, 1 % in 2012 to 20, 1 % in 2017. There's a fall from IRC and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u41	Mr. André Ventura asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u42	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u43	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u44	To defend the honour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u45	You have to explain why, honourable Member. It's not automatic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u46	I was attacked by the Left Block bench and I think I have the right to clarify...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u47	No, sir. Attack is not a problem of honor, it is a political problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u48	It's a specific honor problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u49	Do you intend to defend your party’s personal honor or honour?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u50	Guys.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u51	At the end of the debate will defend the honour, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u52	At the end of this debate?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u53	At the end of the debate. We will continue unless we are at the end of the debate. [[Pause.]] The CDS still has 1 minute and 45 seconds but will not use this time and the PAN also has time but will not use it. Thus, Mr André Ventura has the floor to defend honour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u54	Mr. President, just to say the following: Mrs. Member, be a consultant, whatever, does no one diminish...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u55	Do it, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u56	... as regards what is happening in the Portuguese tax situation. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u57	Mrs. Member, it's true that something...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u58	Show the bill! The invoice!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u59	May I? The truth is that one thing is being a consultant, another is being a leader of the Left Block, attacking the Banco de Portugal and being a consultant to Banco de Portugal — that is a huge incoherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u60	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u61	Mr. President, I'll be done. Mrs. Member, don't forget that when you accuse this incoherence bench, you can expect something always...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u62	Bring the invoice!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u63	You can speak loudly, but you'll hear what I'm going to say now! Do you know what incoherence is? Incoherence is bringing marijuana into this debate and having a candidate who has been arrested in advance for drug trafficking. That's incoherence! [[BE's laughter and protests.]] I tell you more: when you want to talk about incoherence again, there's a file here so big, so big, about the Left Block! ... — I repeat, whenever you want, we are willing to talk about drugs, inconsistencies, Banco de Portugal! Whenever you want, we're willing to talk about it! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u64	Mr President, you have already expressed your point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u65	The difference is that they now have an answer and they will always have an answer from this bench. Always! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u66	The bill! Bring the invoice! He's been caught!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u67	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, if you like, can explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u68	Mr President, I did not accuse Mr André Ventura of inconsistency, I accused Mr André Ventura of having a conflict of interest when he talks about taxes — today and whenever he does. I have also found another fact, and this is, above all, a political problem: the honourable Member has nominated himself, promising exclusivity in the performance of his duties...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u69	That has already been explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u70	... and does not exercise this exclusivity because it provides paid services to a company that does tax consulting. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u71	He's falling into his account!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u72	That is to say, it is a company that helps to make the tax planning schemes that you have now criticized in your speech. So the conflict of interest exists, there will always be, and the Left Block will always point it out for the sake of democratic transparency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u73	Good! It's like drugs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u74	We will enter the second item on our agenda, which is from the discussion of Bill No. 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the obligation to communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority certain internal or cross-border mechanisms with tax relevance, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822. To present the diploma, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Swiss Leaks, Panama Papers, Malta Files and, more recently, Luanda Leaks — I think that, when we were discussing this bill, the ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen. Members should bear in mind what all these cases have meant to the public. Portugal has a history that should be proud in terms of combating tax evasion. We were pioneers in 2008, with an obligation to report to the Tax Authority of internal operations that can set up plans for abusive tax planning, forcing tax consultants, lawyers, accountants and all intermediaries who can help in the construction of these schemes which have no other purpose than to violate tax rules and therefore to escape the payment of taxes. This regime in relation to internal operations, which we have since 2008, enshrined, and enshrined, the derogation of professional secrecy before a greater objective, which is the objective of greater fiscal justice. when we now transpose Council Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822 of 25 May 2018, designated DAC 6, we are doing two things : we are adapting national legislation to the obligation of cross-border transactions schemes as well as having to be communicated to the Tax and Customs Authority by these tax consultants, by these lawyers, by these intermediaries; in relation to internal operations, what we are doing is a legislative simplification measure, placing on the same diploma the obligations, even though an obligation refers to internal operations and the other obligation refers to cross-border operations. This diploma we bring here is a result of a huge work that we have done with the academic community and professionals, we have had a broad public discussion, both in terms of the promotion that the Government has made before the preparation of the project and also after its approval in the legislative process of the Government, and we are absolutely convinced that this instrument, together with all the other instruments to combat tax evasion, both those we have approved in previous legislatures, or those we are discussing here, will make us have a fairer tax system, because it is a tax system that preserves tax bases in each of the countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u76	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This bill perfectly shows that tax tyranny and the authoritarianism of tax machines is good in Portugal and also seems to be good in the European Union. States set up oppressive tax systems, impossible to understand, persecutions, and then they are afraid that taxpayers will want to get rid of this juice and that an industry of tax planners are willing to do this business. Instead of lowering, simplifying and moralising taxes, which would end with the incentive to tax planning, the Eurocrats in Brussels want to force these specialists to communicate the cross-border mechanisms they themselves use. But more: Portugal, which likes to shoot on the foot and be more papist than the Pope especially in matters of State intervention, has decided not to stay here and also include internal mechanisms in communication obligations, in addition to other obligations that go beyond what is in the directive and that will pay Portuguese companies and not their competitors in the European area. But this does not remain here either: this bill must be a record of negative opinions that criticize disrespect for professional secrecy, retroactive application, the deprotection of personal data, but above all, the vague definition of key characteristics and the crazy concept of the main benefit test. Mrs. Secretary of State, this bill is not only a confession of inoperance and incompetence of the Tax and Customs Authority and the Portuguese State, it is a sign of prepotence, authoritarianism and intimidation. Just read articles 17. is 18. Article 9 ( 3 ). the, in which the intermediary is left the burden to prove what he did not know, I repeat, to prove what he did not know. This is true of authoritarian, totalitarian States, but someone has to defend people's freedom, so we will obviously vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u78	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, there are some clarifications that you have to make here. Mr. Secretary of State initiated this debate on the Swiss Leaks and Luanda Leaks, not by chance. It is not by chance, I repeat, that the Secretary of State initiates this debate on police cases, because he knows that the bill he is presenting here is very difficult to defend, not even saying that it is indefensible. Mr Secretary of State, there is here a very clear frontier that needs to be established: one thing is measures to combat tax crime and tax evasion, another thing completely different is what this proposal seems to do, which is to assume in each taxpayer a criminal and transform each accountant and each lawyer into a police officer or an agent of the tax administration. Mr Secretary of State, this border is clear, it is serious and it is serious and I would like, at the beginning of the discussion, to have Mr. Secretary of State tell me—because it has accompanied, and well, this legislation of the opinions of some orders—how it responds to the Order of the Accountants when it says that this proposal is a threat to the exercise of the profession and that it has a complete disagreement. I would like to know if these problems were corrected in the version that was presented to us. The Advocates' Order also states that it strongly rejects the purpose of the authors of the legislative project for violation of the Directive and, above all, of the constitutional principles and principles in force in Portugal and I would like to know whether these problems are solved because they are very serious, have to do with the rule of law itself. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u80	For the CFP's parliamentary group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposed law is implementing a European directive on the automatic and compulsory exchange of tax information. The proposal repeals the well-known Decree-Law No. 29 / 2008 of 25 February, which has allowed tax intermediaries to carry out inspections - to the large financial consultants - to promote to their customers all types of tax escape schemes without any penalty and without requiring the Tax Authority to carry out inspections, where the so-called aggressive tax planning is concerned. The bill proposes that the communication of operations, schemes, actions or mechanisms that deserve surveillance by incorporating, in itself, significant probabilities of the practice of tax offences be made in two steps. Firstly, taxpayers or, in a subsidiary way, intermediaries communicate such mechanisms to the Tax Authority and, secondly, the tax authorities of the Member States of the European Union exchange information that is collected in an automatic and mandatory manner with each other. We support all measures aimed at improving access to information and cooperation between tax administrations in the national states. in this sense, including the entire collection of information specified in the framework of the fight against money laundering at the level of administrative cooperation is a positive step. However, we do not fail to reaffirm that it is not worth feeding the illusion that it is possible to combat money laundering, fraud and tax evasion by relying solely on the duties of the large financial groups. Tax fraud and election, money laundering is one of the faces of the liberal economy and the capitalist system. The recovery of public control over banking and the financial system is a necessary condition for a more effective fight against these phenomena and for a better functioning of the economy, through greater fiscal justice, for development. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the large economic groups continue to be able to escape taxes, whether by illegal means or by legal means, because the laws are tailored to them. while the Portuguese with low income and intermediate income are called to pay their taxes, high finance continues to be favored by the European Union's political options and also here in Portugal. When PS, PSD, CDS, IL and Arrival, the parties of the system, of the system of privilege system for large capital, reject proposals such as that of the PCP to force profits made in Portugal to be taxed, they are rejecting the following idea so simple: if the big ones pay the taxes they owe, it is possible to lower taxes for everyone. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u82	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u83	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I am going to talk about this. Look at this terrible inconsistencies! Not even Robles would do better to talk about houses in Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u84	You're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u85	Not even Robles, it's true! Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about two very specific aspects which are taken from the point of view of our legal framework: one of them has to do with retroactivity and how to combine this new regime which will come into force with the Portuguese regime on the prohibition of retroactivity, and another has to do with the regulation of personal data, above all, and how Portugal will make this compatibility, since we have very recent legislation on this subject, including under European law, and the Constitutional Court has repeatedly called attention to... [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] Do you want to talk about Robles again, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u86	Is that your question or is it from the client?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u87	You guys are very nervous today. I know that candidates are arrested, etc. It's boring, but it happens. Now, with us, you'll always have an answer, my friends. Always! Talk about things, take three! That's how it is in politics. Mr. Secretary of State, in conclusion, would like me to clarify the regulation on the protection of personal data because important problems with the transposition of this Directive can be raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u88	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u89	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: This decree deals with the communication of aggressive tax planning schemes to the Tax and Customs Authority. Now, when it comes to defending taxpayers, we should ask who uses aggressive tax planning schemes. Are they the contributors? Small and medium-sized enterprises? Are the people sitting in the galleries watching the debate using aggressive tax planning schemes? They are the parents of the people who are sitting in the galleries who use aggressive tax planning schemes or are the large multinationals and millionaires,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... are the customers of the companies for which, for example, Mr André Ventura works? In fact, it is not the only one, there are other Members, there have always been other politicians on it. Mr Ventura is well within the system. He knows the system of tax planning very well. Mrs. Members, there is no fight against fraud and tax evasion without changing the rules with which tax fraud and evasion occur and the greatest protection against tax fraud and avoidance is the secret. This is because if you continue to understand that the secret is worth more than the public interest, that the secret of who can escape, because you have money to escape, it is worth more than the tax revenues that pay the public services that are democracy. This law transposing the Directive has two components: the first is the obligation to notify the Tax and Customs Authority of tax planning schemes, i.e. schemes that may prejudice the revenue of the Tax and Customs Authority. It is not an abusive recipe, it is a due recipe because, in this country, everyone must pay their taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u91	... who works and cannot escape but also the multinationals who can escape and should not flee, including with the help of companies for which Mr André Ventura works, even though he said he was coming exclusively to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u92	All right! [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u93	The second component is that the Portuguese Tax and Customs Authority can communicate these tax planning schemes to other tax authorities in other countries and the proposal also extends these obligations to companies in Portugal, which is correct if so. Mr Secretary of State, I would like you to clarify whether when the taxpayer, who is the principal responsible for making this communication, does not do so, there is a guarantee that the intermediary, i.e. the company that creates the tax planning scheme—such as that company for which Mr André Ventura works—is obliged, by law, to communicate the tax planning scheme, and if the duty of secrecy, again, will not overlap with the duty of each company to pay the taxes due. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u94	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There is in the bill under discussion meritorious objectives that deserve recognition. First of all, the promotion of tax transparency and tax justice ; secondly, the fight against fraud and tax evasion, and thirdly, cooperation between the various tax authorities of the Member States. I would therefore like to highlight the fact that in a single document the obligation to communicate cross-border operations and internal mechanisms should be added together, therefore the Portuguese legislator's choice to make these two dimensions aggregate in a single diploma. The second positive word is in relation to the clear identification of key characteristics, as well as the fact that one of them is satisfied to have this obligation, this duty of communication, but there are some questions I would like to ask. Firstly, it is natural that the potential to gain tax advantage is sufficient to force this communication, therefore, the tax advantage resulting from the main benefit. Therefore, I ask whether or not the situations in which this tax advantage derives from the tax benefit reflected in the law are included here. I guess not. However, there are several opinions that raise this relief, i.e. it is not clear whether the tax benefits, i.e. the various rules that are EBF ( Statutory of Tax Benefits ), are considered for tax advantage or not. Secondly — and here is no innovation in this directive — unfortunately, the government is also delaying the transposition of this directive. It is that the Directive is May 2018 and the deadline ended in October of this year. What's the matter? This may make it difficult for the Tax Authority as well as for taxpayers, because there must now still be a set of adjustments, from the outset, in the model of the declarations necessary for this purpose. The third question I would like to ask you has to do with the following: if it is true that we are concerned about combating fraud and tax evasion, I believe that this diploma has a number of problems with compatibility with the question of secrecy and there are several opinions which call into question exactly this dimension. In other words, what had been guarded by the Directive — when it states that intermediaries can only be entitled to a dispensation of the obligation to communicate in so far as they operate within the limits of the applicable national law when this arises from their professions — does not appear to be guarded by the proposed law. The questions I would like to ask are these: firstly, how is the duty of communication compatible with the question of secrecy; secondly, if the Government intends to repeal professional secrecy; and thirdly, now being the intention of the Government, if the Government is going to present some amendment to the statutes of the various professional orders, which have crumbled this bill cryingly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is estimated that in the European Union there is an annual loss of about EUR 60 billion in tax revenue only due to the aggressive tax planning of many companies. If we cover all the fraud, evasion and tax evasion, the revenue loss estimates are around EUR 1 billion. The transposition of this Directive is an important step towards strengthening the fight against tax evasion and electoral. The vast majority of multinational companies act in the fiscal field in a predatory way, using all existing aggressive tax planning mechanisms and always trying to pay the minimum of taxes. They are still able to do this, because the tax rules of the various Member States are very different from each other and until very recently, there was almost no exchange of relevant information between them as regards agreements. This Directive further deepens administrative cooperation in the field of taxation between Member States and aims to discourage this aggressive tax planning. Tax elections must be fought fiercely and this legislation is a good step in this direction! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u98	Mr Miguel Costa Matos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today, the richest and the multinationals pay lower taxes than SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and the middle classes, the result of an unjust and addicted international tax system over the years by lawyers' offices, tax consultants and auditors, but also by complicit governments in tax competition that has stolen resources from the social state.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u100	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u101	We know the problems, but the solutions have been delayed. The directive transposed by this bill is a partial but significant solution for tax evasion. First, it obliges the intermediaries of schemes with tax evasion potential to communicate these schemes to tax administrations. Secondly, it requires tax administrations to share this information with each other in a European directory. This is a victory over this tax planning industry that benefits from the tax flow. From now on, the schemes were finished hidden. But this is also a victory over its accomplices in politics and some parties we have heard here today. If they were not forced, we would not see the countries that profit from tax competition sharing the schemes that they will leave to operate in their countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u103	But more than defeated, we must speak, above all, to winners. Winners are citizens and companies that fulfill their tax obligations. They're coming, because they won't have to bear the tax burden that others so skilfully have seen so far. They come because, with this information, tax administrations will be able to challenge and react to tax planning better and faster. This information sharing is an important step in which Portugal was a pioneer. As such, it is not enough for us to be the first to arrive, we must also be the ones going further, going beyond the Directive, by including more payments, more tax havens and more responsibilities for intermediaries with legal or contractual secrecy. Professional secrecy is a serious but not absolute duty, which we also have to communicate mechanisms that reveal a potential risk of tax evasion. The solution to this bill is balanced and proportionate. Mr. President, fiscal planning has been the leverage of the most grueling inequalities. This law will not win the war against tax evasion in Europe, but it is a sword pointed at its head—to the middlemen and their aridious schemes. We can, in our specialty, sharpen this sword, but whoever defends fiscal justice has the duty to wield it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u104	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech :
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u105	Mr President, I just asked for the floor to remember that transparency and surveillance are very different things. What the professional orders tell us is that this bill goes far beyond the directive, it goes to what would be called « big brother tax ». And to the question I have heard here, about whether small businesses or people are in the galleries that make aggressive tax planning, I fear that, for tax administration, the answer can often be « yes». Let us not forget what happened in a circle of Valongo, where people were ordered to stop, to check if they were, by any chance, not owed anything. When we come into this kind of justification, the problem of wanting to do justice to the big ones, we run the risk of continuing to, let me use the expression, "smiling up" the small ones. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u106	To close this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to say that I would like to have a great deal of speciality in the case of the ladies and gentlemen. Members understand that I am not now allowed to take part in a more in-depth debate. Therefore, I have already expressed this availability. I want to divide this final intervention into two points. The first one is to give small clarifications. On the issue of data protection, Mr President, of course today, the Tax Authority and tax administrations, in international terms, have more and more data, the result of the exchange of international information that is important for us to make our risk matrices to combat fraud and tax evasion. And what should always concern us is the protection of these same data and its use for the purposes due under the law. Now, my expectation is that we will continue to do so. With regard to the question of retroactivity, raised in particular by Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to say that there is no retroactivity which derives from this proposal of law, firstly because what the Directive provides is that the schemes are reported since 2018 and what we have established is a transitional period in which there are specific deadlines for these realities and also an adaptation of the sanction framework and, secondly, because, within what are the schemes to be reported, those pre-existing schemes are excluded. That is why, Mr President, there is no retroactivity. And no, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not gone beyond the directive with regard to internal mechanisms! What we have done, being pioneers and having us a mechanism for reporting internal mechanisms, when we are transposing a directive and making a law on communication of cross-border mechanisms, was to harmonise legislation and also put in place internal schemes. As regards the question of substance on the duty to communicateversus the duty of professional secrecy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for the professions, which are professions of recognised public interest, what we propose here is something that seems proportional to us. The initial obligation to communicate is that of the taxpayer, the taxpayer has that obligation. And the professional has an obligation to explain to him that he has this obligation, from the beginning, since he begins building. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, no, the mere description of the tax regime does not correspond to the duty of communication; now the construction of a tax instrument that aims to obtain an undue tax advantage, this must be communicated by the taxpayer itself and must be the intermediary to say so. And what we have said and done is that if this obligation is not met by the taxpayer, then it must be carried out in a subsidiary manner by the intermediary. It's up to the middleman, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset, tell the taxpayer that, if he does not fulfil that obligation, then he will have to be an intermediary to do so. We therefore do not have any situation of violation of professional secrecy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u108	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u109	I am available for further discussion. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not tax tyranny, this is tax justice, on behalf of young people, on behalf of the future of this country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u110	The general debate on the Bill No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), we turn to Petition No 540 / XIII / 3. a ( Common Front of Public Administration Unions ) — They request legislative amendment to the law that prevents compensation for occupational diseases and accidents, together with, in general, Bills Nos 94 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident, 188 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November, strengthening the rights of workers in public service in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Restores the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. To open the debate and present Law Projects No 94 / XIV / 1. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Greens, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are discussing, as well as the Common Front of Public Admiration Unions, who have promoted, stimulated and gave body to this claim that requires amendments to the law that prevents compensation for illness and occupational accidents. Therefore, Law No. 11 / 2014 is a law which, under the scope of establishing mechanisms for the convergence of the social protection regime of the public service with the general social security regime, ended up serving as an instrument to the Government and the majority PSD / CDS to cut pensions of workers who have discounted an entire life and at the same time impose on employees of the Public Administration a more unfavourable regime than that resulting from the social security regime. Now, as a result of these rules laid down by Law No. 11/2004, there were many employees of the Public Administration who, having been victims of a work accident, had permanent sequelae and who were, in fact, recognized a certain degree of disability. This degree of disability results in the allocation of the right to a pension. However, as Law No 11 / 2014 extended the scope of the impossibility of the accumulation of remuneration with periodic benefits due to permanent disability, the injured workers are effectively denied their right to receive the pension due to disability. In fact, under Decree-Law No 503 / 99, with the wording given to him by Law No 11 / 2014, the worker would have to see his salary reduced in equal proportion to the reduction of his or her ability to earn, in order to receive the pension due to disability. It follows that in the public service, which is subject to a single remuneration table, there is no place for this reduction of wages. However, there is no doubt that the worker can be effectively harmed by the fact that he has been the victim of an incapacitating work accident, insofar as his conditions may have an impact on the performance assessment and on his remuneration progression. In addition, the Public Administration does not guarantee compensation for treatment—and we are talking about workers with disabilities who are recognised for work accidents who need continuous treatments or even, in some cases, vitals. However, the only way that under the regime in the Public Administration there is to promote this compensation is through the provision of permanent disability. Therefore, the workers in this situation feel doublely injured and defrauded by the State, who recognises them the right to an incapacity pension but who does not effectively pay it. We refer, of course, to cases where disability resulted directly from the exercise of the profession and not from any other activity. That is, this legislative amendment, promoted by the PSD and the CDS, has created situations of injustice that it is important to remove. That is exactly what is intended with the proposal that the Greens bring today for discussion and that, in our view, meets the concerns and objectives that petitioners bring us today for discussion. [[PEV and PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u112	To submit Bill No. 188 / XIV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the almost 12,000 petitioners who have applied for a legislative amendment at a point which currently prevents compensation for occupational diseases and accidents. We welcome the fact that the debate is so important. The NAP accompanies its concerns and claims and today discusses a draft law of its initiative, precisely in order to strengthen the rights of workers in public service, in case of accidents at work or occupational disease. In fact, as amended by Law No 11 / 2014 of 6 March, which amended Article 41. that of the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November was added, in the field of compensation for accidents at work, to the existing prohibitions on the prohibition of the accumulation of pension due to partial permanent disability with the portion of the remuneration corresponding to the permanent reduction of the capacity of gain. in this way, if the worker in public office, the victim of an accident at work or occupational disease, remains permanently incapable, he is thus prevented from receiving the amount of compensation to which he would be entitled because he is not compulsible with the remuneration. This legislative amendment has, in fact, been quite contested by civil society, including a request from the Ombudsman for successive abstract supervision of its constitutionality. In this regard, we fully subscribe to the position of the Provedoria, whose understanding was that the legislator's option, by preventing the accumulation of the pension due to partial permanent disability with the remuneration of the work in the plot corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall ability to gain, has effect the absence of repair of the damage present in this type of disability. It is therefore worth saying that to allocate a life-long pension due to partial permanent disability and suspend it under Article 41 ( 1 ( b ). that of the said diploma is precisely to eliminate the repair to which that pension is intended, thus putting into question the appropriate protection which is due to the injured worker or with occupational disease, irrespective of the labour system in which it is integrated, which clearly constitutes a violation of the fundamental law which the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic has to accept in its Article 59 (1) ( f ). , i.e. the worker's right to assistance and fair reparation, when the victim of occupational accident or occupational disease. The occupational accident or occupational disease of which permanent incapacity for work always results in work damage, the repair of which is constitutionally protected. For this reason, the remuneration paid by the worker cannot be confused with the payment of the compensation, insofar as the remuneration constitutes only the economic contribution for the provision of work, being due to the exercise of his work activity. This means that the determining cause of remuneration is the work performed and not the repair of the damage to work, and this is only possible with the payment of compensation, so the prohibition of the accumulation of remuneration with compensation constitutes an unfounded limitation of the constitutionally guaranteed right of the worker to just reparation. The NAP considers that it is the most basic justice to follow the interests of workers and petitioners, and we now submit the proposal to repeal Article 41 ( b ). that of the said diploma, thus allowing the accumulation of the amount paid for compensation with the value of the remuneration, as is the most basic justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u114	To submit Bill No. 197 / XIV / 1. the Left Block has the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Any apparent complexity of these projects that we are discussing today does not go away from this, of a apparent complexity. It is very simple the matter that brings us here today. The Left Block does not propose any creation of any new right for civil servants; what is proposed is that public officials be given the right to access a right which is already constituted in the law: permission to access the right to repair, in kind or in money, of accidents of service or of occupational diseases. If an official of the Assembly of the Republic falls on a ladder of the Assembly of the Republic — as indeed has already happened — if an official of a school falls or has an accident during his normal work, if an official of a hospital has a professional illness for having to carry weight consecutively throughout his life and thereby result in a physical injury and also permanent disability, either partial or absolute, the law says that these employees are entitled to compensation, they are entitled to compensation. And the law does not say that this is exclusive to public servants. All workers have this right. This repair is a basic right of labour rights. This right is recognised in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is recognised in the General Law on Public Works, it is recognized in the Labour Code. It happens that in the PSD/CDS government, during the time of the troika, there was a way to prevent public officials from accessing this right. This means that, despite their entitlement to benefit, it cannot be accumulated either with wages or with pensions, that is, in practice, it is due and not paid. The Ombudsman has already said that, in practice, this results in the irreparability of the damage, i.e. precisely in the material incapacity of these officials to access such basic labour law. What we want is to respond to these employees with a basic right to which they should have access and correct an injustice. What we are asking today is whether any Member, some parliamentary group, has any reason to justify that public officials are not given the same right as other workers to have compensation, compensation for work damage, occupational disease or on-the-job accident. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u116	To submit Bill No. 200 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to begin by greeting the petitioners and also the Common Front, dynamizing this petition which claims measures that guarantee the fulfilment of a right of public administration workers, the right to a fair repair of accidents of service and occupational diseases. The CFP accompanies these claims, and this is a matter on which we have put forward proposals at more than one time, including in State budgets. Today, the CFP brings to the discussion an initiative that rests this right of the injured workers of the Public Administration, eliminating the tremendous injustice practised by the PSD Government / CDS against employees of the Public Administration under Law No. 11 / 2014. Today, employees who suffer from a service accident or who are victims of professional illness and who have been legally recognised as a percentage of partial permanent incapacity for work and who have been determined to pay due compensation must not receive that compensation due to the prohibition of accumulation of this amount with their monthly remuneration. More: this law allows that, at the time of the reform of these workers, there are responses from the CGA (General Pension Fund ) informing that, being paid the total compensation of the occupational accident or illness at the time of the reform, such value, which should have been paid while the worker was working and, at the same time, the monthly value due to the partial disability allocated will not be deducted from the pension at the same time. This means, in practice, that many workers do not pay any amount, even though they have suffered an accident or occupational disease. This is a law that fought different incomes to cut rights. One thing is the remuneration due to workers, their wages, their daily work, or the amount of their pension, resulting from the discounts made during the contribution career. Different things are just reparation for the damage suffered by accident at work or by occupational disease, which involves a prospect of compensation for loss of gain capacity, but also a compensating dimension. Access to this right cannot be conditioned by the salary received or by the value of the pension. Today, public administration workers are denied this fair reparation. They are workers who, at the service of the State, have been victims of service accidents or have suffered from occupational diseases. The non-reparation that this law entails constitutes a deep disrespect for these workers, who every day ensure the functioning of public services in our country. Today, the CFP presents this proposal in its willingness to find solutions, giving this contribution to end this injustice, a special injustice felt by local government workers, by security forces and services professionals, but which affects all employees of the Public Administration. We have left this contribution here, since it is necessary to find a solution that guarantees these workers a fair remedy for their accident of service or for the occupational disease they have been victims of. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u118	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the subscribers for the petition they have sent to this Parliament in the past Parliament and that we are now discussing, together with projects of the Left Block, the PCP, the ENP and the NAP, on the matter of the repair system aimed at public officials as a result of accidents occurring in the workplace, such as accidents and occupational diseases. It seems that it is consensual in this Parliament, we all agree that there must be a repair system aimed at public servants — no one is against this principle — when these troubles occur in the workplace. With regard to this matter, it is important to say that the PSD does not intend to in any way violate this constitutional principle under discussion. I would like to say from now on that we are available to contribute to a discussion in which we can analyze the improvement of the system, we will not hinder any improvement of the system of repair of these damage caused to public servants, to state workers, but we need to take note of some basic assumptions which are appropriate here and which will certainly not be new. Like what has happened in the past, the proponents of these initiatives should not force this vote in plenary. It is because, in the past, what happened was that there was no real public discussion—and, in the specific case of these projects, the same thing happens—so it is necessary to end the period of public assessment, of public consultation, so that all entities can decide on the subject and we can reach consensus. Then there is the question of labour law, which we all know in this Parliament and which we are talking about. It is that the matter being discussed involves more expenditure for the Public Administration and the Members. Members know that there are projects under discussion here that require it to enter into force immediately after the law has been passed. However, with the State budget in force, it is not possible at the moment to make this additional expenditure. In addition to the labour law, the other issue that needs to be mentioned is the sustainability of the systems. And when I talk about the sustainability of the system, I talk about the General Pension Fund and also about social security, because when the PSD arrived at the government in 2011, it found these two systems in collapse. What is supposed is that not only to guard national interest, it is also necessary to guard the interests of the workers themselves...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u120	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u121	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, what is assumed is that not only in order to safeguard the national interest, it is necessary to safeguard the interests of the workers themselves to whom we are going to assign these rights — today they are attributed and it is appropriate that they should not be withdrawn in the future — even for a matter of responsibility for future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u122	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy. You've spent your time a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u123	I will finish, Madam President. Another issue is that of the convergence of systems, that of justice, so that, in relation to all workers who work in the State, compared to the workers of the private sector, we can create equality and an approximation between these two systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u124	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u125	We are, yes, available and we are not going to interfere. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u126	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting about 12 000 signatories of the petition today, which, in general, seeks to encourage the amendment of Article 41. the Decree-Law No. 503 / 99 of 20 November, which, following the entry into force of Law No. 11 / 2014 of 6 March, reduced a legal confusion between the concepts of remuneration for the provision of work and the concept of repair due to accident or occupational disease, due to the impossibility of their accumulation. This is a complex matter, as is clearly demonstrated by the different formulations of the bills today under discussion and the different interpretations and positions—in fact, some in the opposite direction—of the Provedoria of Justice and the Constitutional Court. The Socialist Party has long been fighting for the elimination of inadequate differences in the treatment given to workers of the public sector and the private sector, in particular by promoting the gradual convergence of the schemes of the General Pension Fund and social security. Also in the past legislature, the Socialist Party, on this subject, stated that it was available to study this situation and seek a solution that addresses the needs of equity, justice and trust in the protection of those and those who, as a result of the accident in the performance of their professions, should not be harmed by others, and should be repaired, within the possibilities of the State and the country, the consequences of illness or accidents at work. This was, and continues to be, the position and availability of the Socialist Party, hoping that, in the field of specialty, an alternative solution can be found to the various different projects present today at this House, which is compatible with the capacities of the State and consistent with the values of justice, equity and equality, fundamental in an analysis that, in more detail, is being done on this subject in the field of specialty. This is, therefore, a theme that will still require work and reflection from this Parliament and from the Government, waiting for the Socialist Party to have all the banks available to find a possible and appropriate solution. We, of course, once again leave our greeting to the petitioners for the initiative and the commitment to continue to work on this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u128	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who are on the basis of this agenda as well as the parliamentary groups that have associated it with legislative initiatives, which, from our point of view, have relevance. Obviously, the issue of repairing the situations of civil servants with professional illness or who have suffered an accident at work should be discussed in this Parliament, and it should be in the most appropriate way, in particular if by accumulation or not of different benefits, as suggested by the bills and how it happened in the past, or if that accumulation should not happen, as resulted from the legislation of 2014. from our point of view, this matter has already had a considerable public assessment, from the point of view of the previous Ombudsman's pronouncements and also had a constitutional assessment by the Constitutional Court, having given its ruling on the non-constitutionality of the rule in force. Therefore, given that this matter is not unconstitutional, what we need to know, is whether, from a political point of view, the solution that is currently enshrined is the most just or not, saving that the change that is based on the current regime has resulted in a period of enormous demand and enormous difficulty, especially in the management of public resources, and that, of course, makes sense, outside that context, to make a new assessment, in the light of a different reality. Therefore, as we said in the previous legislature, when similar initiatives, with the exception of the NAP, have been presented from our point of view, makes sense to do this debate in Parliament. Initiatives, it is assumed, will not be voted on, because it is necessary to complete the period of public assessment, and, after the period of public assessment, Parliament must analyse its outcome and make possible approval of a new legislative solution with the law-work, in particular with regard to the draft law of the CFP, which needs to weigh this matter. Thus, our contribution will be positive, with the responsibility of those who have had to take exceptional measures at an exceptional time, but also with the responsibility of those who are always concerned about finding the best solution to the situation of workers in this case of the Public Administration, who suffer this kind of damage. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u130	Mrs Joana Mortágua also wishes to use the floor for an intervention. He's got 13 seconds to do it. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having a law that recognizes a worker who has an accident in the service the right to compensation and another that says that compensation cannot be paid more than unfair is a perversion of the democratic system. Therefore, my last word is for the petitioners and for the people who suffer from this injustice and who have the solidarity of the Left Block. After hearing all the benches, I think we can leave here with hope and the Left Block will do everything to get this project to the end and to restore justice to public officials. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u132	With no further inscription, we turn to item four of the agenda, which is contained in the discussion of Petition No 544 / XIII / 4. a ( Maria Margarida Dias da Silva Garrido et al.) — They request the fulfillment of Law No. 27 / 2016 of 23 August, and the non postponement of the end of slaughter of dogs and cats, together with Bill No. 191 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the creation and modernization of the network of official animal collection centres, in general, and Resolution Projects Nos 51 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Assessment of the application of Law No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles associations, 153 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — On the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August concerning official animal collection centres and prohibition of slaughter of errant animals, 224 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Monitoring and evaluation of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals and the implementation of the network of official collection centres and 247 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of a working group that promotes the monitoring of the law that determines the end of the slaughter and the creation of the national strategy for errant animals. To submit Bill No. 191 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is undeniable that the objectives of Law No 27 / 2016, which created a network of official animal collection centres and which established the prohibition of slaughter as a form of control of the population, have not yet been fully achieved and there is much way to go. We therefore greet the petitioners for bringing this issue, enabling an opportunity to move forward in solutions. We follow closely the evolution and degree of implementation of this new policy for erring animals, of which we are very proud, since today's law, approved unanimously in this House, results from a draft PCP law, later worked, for a year, in the specialty. The values of animal dignity and well-being, coupled with safety and public health, require that the path not be taken by half. at this moment, elements of the public present in the galleries rose up and showed the name « Rui Pinto » written in the shirts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u134	Mrs. Member, I'm sorry to interrupt you. The public attending the session cannot therefore speak, and I would ask the Members to do so. Officers of the authority who remove demonstrators from the galleries. [[Pause.]] You may continue your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u135	Thank you, Madam President. As I said, the values of dignity and animal welfare, combined with safety and public health, require that the path not be travelled by half and, despite the important steps given, the number of official collection centres is still insufficient, with only 85 serving 167 municipalities. In other words, there is still no reception solution and subsequent referral to thousands of animals and, at the same time, a wide sterilization campaign is not guaranteed, which would be necessary to reduce the errant population. The only fair and effective solution, whether in the short, medium or long term, is to do what is not yet done, that is to say, it is even necessary to deepen the policy of sterilization and not slaughtering animals as a solution to the problem of overcrowding dogs and cats. But for this, means are needed and at the same time strengthen the network of official collection centres and their installed capacity. In view of the current reality, as we proposed in the previous and this State Budget, we present solutions: we propose an emergency plan for the application of Law No 27 / 2016 in a speedy way. The idea is to make the Government, in collaboration with the authorities — of course, heard by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the Order of Veterinary Physicians, the National Association of Veterinary Physicians of the Municipalities and the central administration bodies responsible for these matters — responsible for adopting appropriate measures, which begin with the provision of an additional exceptional line of funding, with funds from the Environmental Fund and the Institute for Financing of Agriculture and Fisheries. From the strengthening of financial resources and human resources, exceptional efforts are made to capture, control, transport, collection, sterilization and vaccination of animals. This emergency plan will also allow the Government and the authorities to establish protocols with zoophyll institutions and other animal protection associations to meet these objectives. Ensuring practical conditions for the full application of Law No. 27 / 2016, as we have done in the past, we believe that this bill, with this emergency plan, can respond to existing inadequacies and advance in animal welfare and public health. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u136	To present Resolution Projects Nos 51 and 153 / XIV / 1. the Ecologist Party « The Greens » has the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The way our society views the relationship and interaction with animals also translates the way we, as a collective, tolerate certain behaviors. Many people and families welcome pets, gaining on them a responsibility that cannot be disposable, having to gain conditions for this to last. The issue of animal welfare has been on the agenda of the Greens Ecological Party for a number of years and has resulted in various initiatives presented by this Parliamentary Group in the Assembly of the Republic. at this time, The Greens consider it necessary to evaluate the application of Law No 27 / 2016 of 23 August on official animal collection centres and the prohibition of slaughter of errant animals, and Act No 69 / 2014 of 29 August on the criminalization of animal abuse, protection of animals and extension of the rights of zoophiles associations. The Greens therefore proposed, and it was approved in the State budget, that the Government should set up a working group to present to the Assembly of the Republic a report promoting the evaluation and application of these laws. This work, due to the cross-section of the subjects concerned, should be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Administration, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Higher Council of the Magistrature, the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, the Order of Lawyers, the Public Security Police, the Republican National Guard, the Order of Veterinary Physicians and zoophilic associations, without prejudice to other entities or associations considered relevant. This path is important for us to understand the difficulties that municipalities are experiencing for the implementation of the law that prohibits slaughter for reasons of overcrowding and overpopulation in the CRO(official collection centres), although also from the action of the ENP, if they have strengthened in the 2020 Budget the funds to support the construction of a network of official animal collection centers and of spaces for sterilization of dogs and cats. It is not possible to change the laws or continue to point the finger to society, to municipalities, without leaving the offices and to understand the real needs to ensure the welfare of the animal. We therefore insist that the application of the laws be made with the contribution of all, including associations and those who devote their days to the fight for animal welfare, as is the case with these petitioners, that The Greens cannot fail to welcome and thank the commitment and dedication to this cause. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u138	To present the Resolution Project No 224 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by thanking the petitioners for the delivery of this petition, which makes us discuss this very important law. The law of non-abate has in fact been transforming the paradigm of our relationship with animals and the political responses of each municipality. We believe it has been essential. Despite this being a competence of the municipalities, we continue to consider that the support of the State through its Budget remains paramount. We therefore proposed, in the last budget, EUR 2 million and EUR 200 000 for the improvement and construction of official collection centres and for the strengthening of funding for sterilisation. But we have gone further and have also proposed €150 000 for the evaluation and monitoring of these measures. Now, the projects we are discussing today recommend that the government carry out this money and that it be a working group to make this assessment and monitoring for the improvement of the policy of sterilization and internalization of the necessary services in the official collection centres. In addition, it seems important to us to measure the gaps that continue to cover, as well as the municipalities that maintain inefficient responses in this area and the reason for this lack of response. It is necessary to ensure the full use of the State budget money available for sterilization, which has not occurred, but it is also necessary to ensure that there is planning and identification of difficulties by each municipality. The survey of official collection centres and the existing candidatures to the State budget appropriations indicate a lack of structural responses at local level, but also a gap between what has been identified and the de facto implementation. It is therefore necessary to understand that municipalities have been competing for support, which they have not been doing and why, what the needs identified later, internalize the sterilization service, if municipal veterinary doctors have been dynamizing identification, adoption and sterilization campaigns, as well as dynamizing an investigation that can measure which have been the objective barriers to sterilization and improvement of official collection centers. It is also important to understand which budget each municipality allocates to these policies, as well as why there are no municipal responses to the collection, in the councils in which this absence is found. We therefore propose that the Government set up a working group to present a report with recommendations by September 2020, to raise the perspective of the municipalities, present exemplary cases, define the need for training and account for the implementation of the different investments and main obstacles per municipality. This same group should also assess the policies developed at local level for the implementation of the law, by raising the budgets allocated for these measures, as well as exclusively municipal initiatives carried out. These projects are of extreme importance, because this measure has been and is a substantial advance and must be improved, convening all of them, so that it is more effective and efficient its application. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u140	To present draft resolution No. 247 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN), you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u141	Madam President, we begin by welcoming more than 6000 petitioners, in particular the first petitioner, Margarida Garrido. We thank people, informal groups and associations who daily complete or often replace the State in the field of animal protection. In 2016, this House unanimously approved the law that finally gave an answer to a growing number of people who were insurging against the fact that in our country thousands of healthy animals were slaughtered without even being given the opportunity to be adopted. This was undoubtedly a very important civilizational step. The slaughter of abandoned animals has ended as a form of control of the population. A two-year moratorium was established for the implementation of policies in this area, such as sterilization and the creation of a network of official animal collection centres. We agree that it is time to look again at these policies, not in a backward perspective, not in a perspective to evaluate for evaluation, but rather to evaluate to evolve, to evaluate to have more responsiveness, to assess to solve the problems. There is a lot of misinformation, there is a lack of political will to give firm and integrated responses to animal protection and welfare. It is time to pass on to society a clear message that the step that was taken in 2016 is irreversible and it is also time to realise that the path can only be that of decent treatment and respect for animals. It is good to be clear that we have already left behind the stage in which merit and the goodness of the law were being questioned, and that failures, which are recognised as existing, obviously need to be resolved and overcome. But it is also necessary to contribute to the local power, in conjunction with animal protection associations, informal and private groups, to exercise its powers in this matter. We welcome all the initiatives that have come to the debate. At the initiative of the NAP, we want to strengthen the State's commitment to animals by creating a multidisciplinary working group that includes all those who work in this area and also creating a national strategy for abandoned animals. The truth — let us say it here, ladies and gentlemen. Members—is that the State's response, despite any good will arising from the process of conscientiousization on this matter, has proved insufficient, poorly articulated or even disintegrated. So the way to go is still long. If, on the one hand, the money we continue to affect public responses to animal protection and welfare are still manifestly insufficient...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u142	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u143	I shall conclude, Madam President. We remember only the report by DGAL ( Directorate-General for Local Authorities) and DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary) of 2017, which identified existing needs. Now it's time to ask these two bodies to update it...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u144	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u145	I shall conclude, Madam President. This is important so that we can give an assertive answer in this matter, recognizing dignity and animal protection. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u146	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Welcome to another liberal minute, the first liberal minute of the animal spirit. A ‘seven-head bug’ was in this case that became the law that banned the slaughter of errant animals and created a network of official animal collection centers. « They sold us cats for hare». Today, we continue to overpopulation of animals, there are problems in the collection centres, not half of the animals collected were adopted and the sterilization process of errant animals is being « pass-by-caracol ». They believe this is not « crocodile tears». We are really concerned about this situation and therefore we agree with the NAP. It is necessary to study the application of the law later, in fact, with data, to develop the measures necessary to resolve this public health problem gradually. As the people say, « grain and grain, fill the chicken the poplar». On the other hand, we disagree with the CFP, which wants to establish an emergency plan that already creates more collection centres. It is even ironic that the PCP, like « wolf in lamb skin », goes through a large animal defender. « Get the rider out of the rain ». In the former Soviet Union...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u149	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u150	I'll finish. In the former Soviet Union, there were many heights there were no wandering animals. Indeed, there were no animals anywhere, because what was hungry and much desolation, courtesy of the glorious communist model. On this they remain « little ones than a mouse».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u152	I'll finish. Finally, they recognize when proposing that they may also use private centres,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u153	I should have put some sheets to make of La Fontaine!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u154	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u155	... that there can be a coalition between the public and the private sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u156	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude and not to enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u157	This is what we also defend for health, but for human health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u158	Mr António Lima Costa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all agree with the ban on the slaughter of errant animals. It is a matter of principle and therefore the law which established this prohibition was unanimously adopted. However, I must remember the constant warnings and warnings that the PSD and the CDS repeatedly did in the working group that drafted the law, saying that gradualism was necessary and that the deadline for the start of the slaughter ban was completely unrealistic. But PS, Block, PCP, PAN and PEV, full of rush, did not hear us and imposed on the country a totally irresponsible and incompetent law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u160	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u161	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u162	A little more than one year of prohibition of slaughter resulted in an out-of-control situation, a chaotic situation, a very serious public health and safety problem and animal welfare,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u163	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u164	... with thousands of hungry dogs wandering in tents near our towns and cities, which, to survive, kill other animals and cause panic in the populations, as recently occurred in Viana do Castelo, Guimarães, Moimenta da Beira and in many other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u165	Exactly! [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u166	Therefore, as much as they try to disguise, Bloc, PCP, PAN and PEV are also responsible for this problem. What we have just heard in the last speeches was, in fact, the confirmation of the bad conscience of these parties and the confession that we are indeed facing a situation of great emergency. [[It's true! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u167	And do not come with the inadmissible accusation, suggested by some parties, by the Bloc in particular, that the responsibility is of the municipalities. There is no doubt: the competence to comply with this law is central administration, is government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u168	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u169	...the government that has been contemptuous and has failed sharply. That is why it is clear that, out of shame, you are not here to look. For our part, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a situation of total lack of control, of a chaotic situation, we believe that urgent action and pragmatism must be taken. We agree with the demands of the Government to strengthen support for the construction of official collection centres, for the implementation of massive sterilization and adoption campaigns, but that does not solve the very serious problem that is there today. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it may not be politically correct to say so, but the PSD makes clear its position on this matter, which distinguishes us completely. The sense of responsibility, common sense, public safety and health and animal welfare impose, in the exact measure and in the strictly necessary period of time, that we approve a moratorium, a delay in the deadlines laid down in the law, because that is the only way to solve this emergency situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u170	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners, who have addressed us asking for two things. First, they asked to stop the abatements and, indeed, in 2018, this happened when the law passed here, in fact, unanimously, in 2016, entered into force. The second request, which makes all the sense, was for financial support to whom it has to a large extent the responsibility, which are the chambers. With regard to the legislation which has been adopted here — and has been adopted unanimously, so we all have approved it — I have no doubt that it has been well-intentioned, with the best of intentions. But I think it is enough to look at the projects we are discussing today to realize that this legislation has to be evaluated. We can't be on our backs for the many news we're facing. First, there are dogs and cats that no longer have room for more animals. These are ruinous situations that call into question the welfare of animals in a way that cannot leave us indifferent. in the same way, we are not indifferent to the increase in abandoned animals and even reports of attacks, both between animals and people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are some things that must also be made clear. However well-intentioned this legislation is, it is clear that it cannot call into question the hierarchy of values. Animal welfare is not a value that is hierarchically superior to public health,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u172	All right! [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u173	... and much less those of the safety, integrity and life of people, which may be questioned by these erring animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u175	People, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they also have the right to be well treated, to their physical integrity and not to feel threatened by layers of errant animals. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u176	And there is a hierarchy between these two values which, for the CDS, is clear. Therefore, we will make it possible for the projects in terms of information to be understood what the real dimension of the problem is. If more funds are needed, we will also make it possible for the necessary funds to be raised. However, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make it clear that this problem cannot be perpetuated for years and years pending an assessment. We have the concern to safeguard the safety of people in the meantime and we must not fail to recognize that there is a fundamental role here because there have been two years to prepare for the entry into force of this law, but the truth is that its entry into force has not been made or prepared. So either the government or the parties that support it, they will also have to answer for that, I suppose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u177	For an intervention, Mrs Palmira Maciel of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the proposals for the various initiatives under consideration today, as well as the petitioners on the same subject. On the topic under discussion today, related to the official animal collection centre and the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals, it should first be stressed that since 23 September 2018, as laid down in the law, it is prohibited to practise, at any official animal collection centre, the killing of pets for unwarranted reasons. As regards the official animal collection centres, we recall that, under the legislation establishing a programme to support the improvement of facilities and the acquisition of equipment suitable for the performance of pet sterilizations and establishing a programme to grant financial incentives for the construction and modernisation of such centres, the Government has so far made about EUR 2 million available. The funds made available finance municipalities, associations of municipalities and intermunicipal communities, with a view to the modernization and construction of official animal collection centres. in this sense, the participation of DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ) and CCDRs ( Coordination and Regional Development Committees ) are essential to effectively manage the processes arising from applications. We believe that sterilization and adoption campaigns are important measures in solving the problem of controlling populations of dogs and cats. Regarding the sterilization actions of pet animals in centres, the numbers are already enlightening: in 2013 there were 2454 animals; in 2019 there were 13369. In 2018 and 2019, the Ministry of Agriculture made EUR 500 000 available in each economic year to support pet sterilisation actions. Therefore, an assessment of the application of the law should not only focus on issues of adoption and sterilization, which, although they represent important measures, do not solve the problem of abandonment or lack of care provided to animals. Even in cases where there are municipal collection centres, the capacity for animal housing has a limit. With regard to the National Strategy for Misleading Animals, we believe that the topic should merit a broad discussion among the competent entities and be based on scientific evidence and technically based. In our understanding, this strategy should include national awareness campaigns for responsible detention and have educational and programmatic contents to be applied in primary and basic education. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that significant progress has been made in this area. in this sense, the 2020 State Budget reflects this concern by entering large amounts of money for the modernization of collection centres and for sterilization campaigns. We know that there is a way forward for sterilization to become a common and widespread practice and no longer resort to the slaughter of errant animals as a form of control of the population. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u179	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u180	Madam President, what I am saying here today I would not like to say, but I am here to say the same. Yes, we need a new strategy for errant animals and, yes, we need to strengthen, and much more, the criminalization of ill-treatment against pet animals. But we cannot continue to be shocked with occasional cases and we will see all over the Alentejo, the Ribatejo and other areas of the Country horses, donkeys, dogs in miserable state of treatment, undernourished, humiliated and seen. And this, whether you like it or not, has to do with the Portuguese Gypsy community. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I will not fail to say, even if it costs, that we have a very serious problem in Portugal today: in addition to subsidiarity, in addition to women's rights, we also have a problem with the Roma community in the treatment of animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u181	Being xenophobic is a crime!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u182	We may not say it, we can hide it, but that's how I feel and that's what we have to say before the Portuguese. This is an issue that we will have to deal with, sooner or later, without the threat of proceedings by the State to Members and without the phantom of racism, which we always have in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u183	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. He's out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u184	I will finish, Madam President. We also have a problem with the gypsy community regarding animal treatment. Sooner or later we'll have to deal with him.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u185	And you don't say anything about the tourdas?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u186	We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 598 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF and APROTED ) — They call for measures to be taken with a view to linking and integrating the teaching career of the Theatre area and the creation of the respective recruitment group together with Resolution Projects Nos 171 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the areas of the Dramatic Expression and Theatre, 182 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By creating a recruiting group of the Theatre area and 209 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of a system of linkage and integration into the career of teachers in the theatre area and the creation of their recruitment group. To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u187	Madam President, the PCP Parliamentary Group begins by welcoming APROTED, Association of Theatre and Education Teachers, and also FenPROF, National Federation of Teachers, for the petition presented here today, as well as the more than 5000 subscribers who have come to demand the creation of the recruitment group in the areas of Dramatic Expression and Theatre, but also that the binding of those who work and, in fact, who act as teachers as teachers in these areas is made. With regard to artistic education, there is still too much to do in our country, starting with the full respect for the rights of those who work in public school, which is also undoubtedly reflected in defending the rights of those who study in our country. in this particular case, it is very easy to explain why, firstly, the CFP considers that the public school must be the school of rights and must be the school of rights for all. In fact, no. 1. the artistic education cycle has four mandatory areas: Visual Arts, Dramatic Expression / Theatre, Dance and Music. No. 2. the cycle, there are only two : Visual Education and Musical Education, E no 3. the cycle has only one, which is Visual Education. But it's the 2nd. o is 3. the cycles schools can create other artistic disciplines, they are forced to favour the available human resources. And this causes us a problem here, because this limitation, for example in areas such as Theatre and Dance, which do not have a recruiting group or teachers in the framework, makes much of the schools not even open these disciplines. Therefore, if schools do not open these disciplines, what we are doing is encouraging that there is no recruitment of these teachers and much less their integration, because this is not required.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u188	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u189	This in a context in which many of the specialized technicians, many, many years ago, taught the most diverse disciplines in the areas of music, dance, arts, professional courses. They are hired year after year as if they were only transitional and temporary needs, when they are not. It is that if we are talking about teachers who are in the same school, in the same grouping more than 5, 10 or even, in some cases, 20 years, they constitute permanent needs of schools and thus have to be integrated with an effective work link. And since legislation already provides for this situation, it must be respected, rights must be respected and these teachers must be integrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u191	The CFP has always argued that the process of integration of workers with precarious links and permanent functions in public school and public administration is fundamental, is a determining condition for the quality of public services and, in this case, of public school. These teachers have the right to be integrated, they have the right to see their recruitment group be created and we have to make the country move forward also with the teaching of arts in schools. With regard to the artistic education of our country, for example, the government announced the creation of a national art plan for schools. We have nothing against it, but it was very important to start by solving the basics, which was to link these teachers, integrate them into the teaching career with the creation of their recruitment groups and provide schools with all the necessary conditions. Here is the contribution of the CFP to this objective. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u192	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet FenPROF, the Association of Theatre and Education Teachers and more than 5000 people who have subscribed to the petition for the right to link and integrate into the teaching career of Theatre and Dramatic Expression teachers through the creation of a recruitment group in the area. The country is implementing in its educational system a National Plan of Arts, a Program for Aesthetic and Artistic Education, a National Strategy for Citizenship, a Plan to Promote Success and a Plan to Combat Retention. The Ministry of Education, to ensure the appreciation of the artistic training of students created the discipline of Theatre in the scientific-humanistic courses in 2018, of an optional character, it is true, as many others, from Anthropology, Greek, Law and Computer Applications, with the difference that for all these options there are already recruitment groups. Decree-Law No. 75 / 2018, on the flexibility of curriculum autonomy, of the same Ministry, provides for interdisciplinary and creative projects through the domains of curriculum autonomy, the famous CAD. It therefore becomes incomprehensible and seems to belong to the realm of absurdity that, year after year, the Theatre teachers continue to be recruited as "specialist technicians", precarious for some more than 20 years, with wages lower than those of the hired teachers, prevented from being opponents of the binding contest, whether extraordinary or by the norm-work, because they are not considered teachers, because they do not have a recruiting group. They are not recognized as teachers, despite training, teaching experience, and performing equal functions and times, but, in the false logic of transitional or temporary needs, they become eternal precarious.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u195	This situation of extreme job insecurity violates Community law, in particular Directive 1999 / 70 / EC, which seeks to avoid the abuse of successive term contracts, and disregards the constitutional principle of employment security. It is therefore important to respond to this legitimate and ancient claim, that of the creation of a recruitment group in the area of the Theatre and Dramatic Expression, ending the precariousness and valuing these curricular areas. Only in this way will it be possible to access a linkage regime and the integration into the career of teachers who teach the discipline of Theatre in elementary and secondary schools of public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u196	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the more than 5,000 people who have signed this petition and say that we follow the claims of these petitioners, insofar as they represent the need to dignify these professionals and ensure that teaching in the theater area in school curricula is done on an equal basis among teachers with the pedagogical quality that is required. The Dramatic Expression and the Theatre have been educational and educational tools that schools have used—and well! — within their curricula and even in extracurricular activities. The use of these tools has been shown to be very positive in the pedagogical differentiation, in the motivation of students and even teachers in the improvement of learning and in the development of academic and personal skills of students, contributing to the interest of reading. I would also like to say that in the educational model advocated by the NAP the divided knowledge by disciplines does not correspond to the students' needs, motivations and learning opportunities successfully, but in the current model we consider that disciplines of an artistic nature cannot be seen as areas of knowledge of lesser importance in learning. The exercise of teaching in this discipline area requires professionals with specific training that schools have been recruiting under a term contract regime as specialized technicians. Not being considered teachers, as in other disciplines, these professionals can only access precarious contracts that, in addition to unequal ones, do not guarantee the necessary professional and pedagogical stability of these professionals in our teaching system. In addition, and we cannot fail to mention inequality, because this discipline is the only of the group of disciplines of common choice to scientific-humanistic courses whose teachers are not integrated into a recruitment group. Knowing that training in these areas corresponds to a permanent need for schools and that should be taught by teachers with proper qualifications, the NAP considers it essential to advance with the creation of a recruitment group in the theatre area as well as the linkage and integration in the teaching career for these professionals. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Gabriela Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 5000 petitioners for their civic initiative and participation. The Theatre has become an optional discipline in teaching, but unfortunately its needs are not yet met by lack of teachers in schools. There are several undergraduate courses in Theatre and a few dozen professional teachers in Theatre and Dramatic Expression. With this petition, it is intended to recommend to the Government the establishment of a panel for the recruitment of Theatre and Dramatic Expression. It is true that this issue is not new and the government, which is responsible for setting up the recruitment groups, has created new groups, but unfortunately, as far as the Theatre is concerned, we do not feel the same political will that they have shown, for example, with the Gestual Language in 2018. But above all, what is true is that they are people who do the same as colleagues from other disciplines, some more than 20 years ago, as has already been said, who have invested in their careers, but who are not hired as such, maintaining their precarious situation. Yes, it is true that we have to ensure needs-adjusted proposals and adapt new needs and challenges to reality. The educational success of students also goes through art education and I hope that the Ministry of Education will also agree, but to prove that it must meet the effective needs of the system and the existing curriculum.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u201	It is also true that the PSD has always defended — and I quote — that this subject deserves serious reflection by the government so that, within the framework of the consultation and its competences, it will be resolved in the best interests of students and citizens. Do not keep on seeking. ” But it is no longer true that we are training teachers, resorting to their work and qualification and recognizing them as such, nor is it less true that for the Government and for the PS this is a non-assuming, because, in addition to not being a priority, they have invoked the absence of hours to justify the creation of a recruitment group and they believe that the PREVPAP (Special Regularization Programme of the Pre-Trial Links in the Public Administration) would in itself solve the problem. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members: Is it true that the government wants a quality education provided by qualified teachers, whether they are 10 or 50? Is it really true that it is from this that the Ministry of Education will create the coveted group of theater recruiting and Dramatic Expression? As I said earlier, competence and responsibility are exclusive to the Government and not to the Assembly of the Republic or to the opposition. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u202	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Greens greet FenPROF for bringing to this House a petition that reminds everyone that, although it has been taken for a long time, although teaching practice in Portugal does not always assume it, "a school curriculum that integrates arts and humanity is essential to the formation of good citizens" and that separating the cognitive process from the emotional is an unjustified division. Artistic education plays an important role, not only working different expressions, but also develops different skills in students, such as: trust in themselves and others; understanding of others; teamwork; argumentation; expressionivity; concentration; memory; dictionary; reading; breathing; being and speaking in public; creativity; ability to abstraction; and knowledge of dramaturgical, cultural and ethnographic heritage. The area of Theatre and Dramatic Expression has been taught in schools for a long time, being increasingly present in curricula of various levels of teaching. It happens that the professionals who teach it are hired by schools as specialized technicians, as if they were to fill schedules that result from the variation of temporary needs, being the selection made through open procedure by the governing body of the grouping of ungrouped schools or schools. Moreover, for many, this situation may reach 10 years or more, so we have easily concluded that 10 years do not correspond to temporary or transitional needs, but, indeed, permanent to which an effective link must correspond. We speak of teachers to whom this condition of teachers is not recognized, while hired as specialized technicians. However, they are not recognized for the applicability of the existing contracting mechanisms to combat precariousness, because they exercise teaching functions, but are not recognised as such, because they are not framed in any teaching group. It is urgent to put an end to this unfair situation of these professionals who, for duty purposes, are considered teachers, but who, for the purpose of regularization of professional ties, are not framed as such. The Greens believe that negotiations should be initiated for the establishment of a recruitment group for the Theatre area, ending with the recruitment of these professionals from the school contract, thus being covered by the Statute of the Teaching Career and with the possibility of linking them in their careers. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u204	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by congratulating the 5000 petitioners, APROTED and FenPROF, who have promoted the debate this afternoon and who have promoted the presentation of various draft resolutions, the BE, the PCP and the PAN, which coincide in a single objective: the creation of a theatre recruiting group that enables the link and integration in the teaching career of specialized technicians who teach discipline in basic and secondary schools. I begin by talking about what the Socialist Party unites with these proposals: the affirmation that artistic education is essential in the formation of young people, in the construction of their critical spirit, in the development of creativity, self-esteem, in the ability to work as a team and in the construction of the solidarity spirit that the arts gather. Therefore, we strongly disagreed when Minister Nuno Crato, in 2012, launched his curriculum reform in defense of a vision of central content, which led to a decrease in educational hours dedicated to artistic education. The work of this government has since been to re-emerge the school for everyone and artistic education is an integral part of this project. Let us be clear: we know that the arts have not yet gained centrality in the educational system, that Decree-Law No. 344/90 always wanted to promote, but the path we have taken is that of valuing the various artistic areas in the school space and in the community in which it is inserted. I give two examples, First: the plan of aesthetic and artistic education. Here, the school is a focal point for promoting an integrated view of the arts, where logic is developed for the creation of cultural and artistic habits by students, but also by teachers and families. It is a project involving 167 institutions in the national territory. The second example is the National Plan of the Arts. It is a multidisciplinary project in which art and culture are central axes of new educational strategies, which ensures curriculum art and integration of various artistic languages. Here are the arts that serve as a raw material for the approach to the other disciplines. Today, we have 65 school groups that have rediscovered themselves as spaces of artistic residences, in processes that are monitored by cultural coordinators and supported by appropriate educational resources that are made available to the teachers involved. Having said this, if it is true that adherence to these projects grows every year, the same has not happened with the Theatre chair. As a variable school offer discipline, she continues to have reduced numbers of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u206	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u207	In the spring year 2018 / 2019 eight hours were requested, in the year 2019 / 2020 were requested 10 and only three of them with full hours. In the expression recruitment group, which includes the lesson of Dramatic Expression, two teachers were placed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u208	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u209	I will now conclude, Madam President. These are numbers that prevent the creation of a recruitment group. On the other hand, the specialized technicians who perform these functions are, many of them, ineligible if they consider the qualifications required by the Staff Regulations of Teaching Careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u210	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u211	I'm done now, Madam President. Having said this, we believe that it is possible to start an extended debate on which possible ways to strengthen the teaching of the arts in school and, eventually, to hold a debate on the overall structuring of the recruitment groups, but we do not think that spraying the creation of these groups is the solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 5,000 petitioners who subscribe to this petition, which brings us a matter that is not new and which has already occupied us in the previous Parliament for quite a long time in the Commission. In fact, what is the problem that petitioners want to see resolved? It is essentially the fact that there are about 50 active theater teachers in the teaching system that teach the discipline, which are hired directly by schools as specialized technicians and not as teachers, so they have no wage progression, although they have recently been able to see their contracts renewed, ensuring the continuity of work with students. The answer requested by the petitioners is simply this: the creation of a recruitment group so that they can be covered by the Statute of the Teaching Career. Now, what has the PS said over the past four years, - and you assume, listening to the Socialist Party's Member, what will you say again on this matter? In 2017, in response to a written question from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, the Minister of Education, who is still the same, said that the theme was not a priority ; in 2019, in response to this petition, the Ministry of Education said : « As regards the discipline of Theatre and Dramatic Expression it is verified that the number of students, being variable from year to year, is normally not expressive, and its size within the education system is considered residual ». Therefore, applying the rational one that chaired the evaluation of the establishment of recruitment groups, it is understood that recruitment in this area is not justified. In fact, the Socialist Party's Member made us a huge dissertation here on the importance of the arts, but it ended up saying exactly the same thing. The truth is that it was the same Minister of Education who instituted the discipline of Theatre as an optional in secondary in scientific-humanistic courses from September 2018, creating an apparent need here. On the other hand, and also as it was said here, it created such National Plan of Arts 2019 / 2029, which I presume has been for more than creating a coordinator position within each grouping. Therefore, what I think is asked for is consistency - I know that nowadays consistency is very overvalued- and the CDS, such as the school council, such as the directors' associations, will not oppose the creation of the recruitment group, knowing, however, as said here by the PSD deputy, that this is a matter of government responsibility. Thus, in order not to create false expectations for the people who have subscribed to the petition, we can recommend, as a Parliament, that the recruitment group be set up, but it is for the government to actually create it, and not only because it is then for the government to open the vacancies so that it can be effective. Parliament can therefore do its part, but it will be in the hands of the government to make it effective. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u214	For an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u215	Madam President, I would just like to give a little clarification, which has to do with the following: students do not choose the discipline of Theatre because the school does not offer it and we enter a kind of vicious circle. However, there are more than 20 higher education institutions offering the Theatre course. It is possible to generalize the discipline of Theatre to more schools, because in fact there are people who may have professionalization and come to exercise that discipline. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-05.u216	We have no further entries for interventions and, therefore, we have reached the end of our agenda. Tomorrow we will continue, at 10 a.m., and at the first item on the agenda will be appreciated Bill No. 183 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against pet animals and extends protection to vertebrate sensitive animals by amending the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, 112 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code, criminalizing the conduct of those who kill, for no legitimate reason, pet, 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, revising the sanctioning regime applicable to pet animals, and 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals. At point two we will make the assessment of Lein.os 42 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Reduction of packaging waste, 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Reduction of superfluous packaging on commercial surfaces, 179 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce the number and volume of packaging in commercial products ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 of 11 December) and 208 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Promotes reduction of packaging waste and increased recycling rate. In point three, the Draft Resolution No 179 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedure for the completion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol on Forced Labour of the International Labour Organization. point 4 is replaced by the Parliamentary Assessment No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which is the first amendment to the Code of Public Contracts, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May. In point five we will have Law Projects Nos 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional regime for the National Health Service under the law of commitments and late payments ( Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February ) and 201 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the law of commitments ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ). At the sixth and final point we will have the vote at the end of the debate. We are thus at the end of the sitting. Very good rest of the day for everyone and until tomorrow at 10 o'clock. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
