ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] of today's agenda, as you know, there are two reassessments of Decrees of the Assembly of the Republic. We then move on to the first point, which affects the Reassessment of Decree No 46 / XIV — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, is registered to speak. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u2	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to this Decree No 46 / XIV, on the follow-up by the Assembly of the Republic of the European Union to the process of building the European Union, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has carefully examined the reparations made by the President of the Republic. We have already tabled amendments in order to welcome them, i.e. to allow two preparatory debates of the European Council to be held for six months, thus aligning themselves with what is written in Article 15. that of the Treaty on European Union, which sets precisely the number of European Councils per semester in two ordinarys. This without prejudice to the Committee on European Affairs calls for a preparatory debate of an extraordinary European Council, where the agenda justifies it. I believe that we will be able to overcome the objections or reparations of the President of the Republic. However, I would like to point out one aspect. More important than quantity is always quality. I think we should pay particular attention to the scheduling of these European debates, in order to give them some autonomy, so that they are more fruitful debates and have the relevance they deserve, without, as they often appear, in the agenda, as mere appendages to previous debates. But this is not a matter of law, it is just a matter of scheduling. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u3	The Bureau is awaiting registrations. [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Marques, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u4	Mr President, we are here again discussing the amendments proposed by the PSD, and also adopted by the Socialist Party, on the amendment of the model of the debates on the European Council. When we presented them, it was because we considered that the debates on European matters did not have the appropriate and merited space, nor the relevance that all or at least the majority of this Parliament attaches to European themes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u6	Mr President, Mr President, the President of the Republic vetoed these changes because he felt that the debate that was guaranteed and expressed was not sufficient, although, as we all know, the law that regulates these debates allows the Committee on European Affairs to mark as many debates as you want on this subject. The fact is that, when this way of following the European route was decided, the usual thing was that there were four European summits, then six and seven summits were held in the same presidency, sometimes only to ratify the outcome of informal summits and Parliament was obliged to follow that number of summits. Mr President, the PSD took good note of the criticisms of the President of the Republic and also takes good note of the proposal which the Socialist Party made in good time to adjust the initial proposal, thus ensuring that the number of summits required by the presidency, i.e. for six months, corresponds at least to the same number of debates in Parliament on this subject on the strategy and direction of Europe and the participation of Portugal. I also draw attention to the fact that the Committee on European Affairs can continue to mark and ask Parliament and the Conference of Leaders, as I could already do, all the discussions that it considers useful on this subject. If, a few months ago, when this proposal was delivered, European life was not so present in Portuguese reality, two things have changed. The first, fundamental, is the European bazauca, which is for Parliament to vote and follow up — the PSD will, very briefly, make very concrete proposals on this subject — and the second is the fact that a Portuguese presidency is approaching. from that we will understand the concern of the President of the Republic to ensure that this debate is done. Mr President, with all the respect I have for Mr Ex.a and for the other parliamentary seats, and as someone who likes and who, as you know, accompanies the European themes very much, because you feel a convinced Europeanist, there is a small change that depends on us all and that can ensure more visibility, more precedence and, above all, the dignity that European debates deserve. Mr President, this is not your mandate, it is not your previous one, it has always been like this! I am talking about not marking the debates on the European Council as appendices to other debates taking place in this House with His Excellency the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u8	Mr President, forgive me the expression, but it's almost like making a game between Benfica and Sporting and then placing a game that is treated as the second division when it isn't. After seeing a Benfica-Sporting, see a Benfica-Braga or a Braga-Porto, right away — just because people are already tired! — no one is ever paying attention, because our attention is also out of focus. It is to ensure that the European debate is not an appendix to the fifteen-year debates or the thematic debates that we have left this suggestion, because the same thing has happened again this week. Mr President, let us not once again mark the European debates for the same day as the 15-year debates, the debates with the Prime Minister and the debates which are of particular importance in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u9	There are no more 15-year debates!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u10	Mr Fabíola Cardoso, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, now gives the floor to Mrs Fabíola Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The veto of the President of the Republic to Decree No 46 / XIV, which provides for a reduction in the number of debates on the European Union, was good news for Portuguese democracy. It is this veto that makes us here today and that gives everyone and all Members another opportunity to reflect on the implications of this rule for the Assembly of the Republic and its role as a body that monitors and monitors the action of the Government. It is in your hands the opportunity to halt the path and not diminish the Portuguese democracy, nor this House. We follow the criticisms of the President of the Republic when he says, and I quote, that «the most obvious reading of the proposed hour is that of the devaluation of European themes and the role of the Assembly of the Republic before them». And indeed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it has been and continues to be more than obvious, for all Portuguese society, that what the PS and PSD want to achieve with this standard is to limit the public scrutiny of the action of the Government and thus protect the 'centre' from confrontation and political debate. The path of the PS and PSD is to diminish this Assembly of the Republic, in an absolute contempt for the parliamentary debate and the plurality it represents. Therefore, in this package of amendments, it was also the elimination of the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister, in addition to rules restricting citizen participation. To devalue the Portuguese Parliament, as a supervisory body, is a gross mistake, a mistake of those who do not know history well, a mistake especially at this stage when the European Union and its Member States need participation, transparency and popular representation to meet the social and economic challenges we face, the result of the COVID-19 and the extraordinary situations it originates. There are moments of profound economic and social crisis. Is it not at this time that democracy and the rule of law must be strengthened and deepened? We are witnessing the progress of populism and extremism in Europe and here too in Portuguese society. Is that not more than enough reason to strengthen and deepen democracy and the rule of law? If the attempted emptying was bad, the timing was even worse. « Do it four months before the beginning of the Portuguese presidency of the Council of the European Union is to choose the worst moment», the words of Mr President of the Republic, not mine. Portugal is preparing to receive millions and millions of Europeans. These amounts, which some consider to be poisoned, will have to be distributed. Is that not enough reason to promote transparency and value political supervision? More money for some and less democracy for all is an account that can only give very bad results. This is the time to strengthen the democratic vigor of this House, to enhance public scrutiny and to ensure that the Government exercises its functions in a legitimate and democratically responsible manner, not the other way around. That's our duty here. For this reason, the Left Block again affirms its position, of which it does not abdicate because it also does not abdicate democracy and its most basic principles. This standard is an attack on democracy. The PSD presented it and the PS approved it. The proposal now presented by the PS is a weak remedy, which poorly disguises the initial position. Let us hope that, at the time of the vote, the result is what Portuguese democracy deserves. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u12	Now is the turn of the Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If, in the case of the review of the Decree that we are going to make next, with regard to the amendments to the law of the exercise of petitions, the PSD and the PS were to give a real fact in participatory democracy, in the case of this Decree, about the reduction of debates on European issues, the PS and PS intend to give a fact in representative democracy. In fact, this proposal prepared, cooked and presented by the PSD and also voted by the PS was intended to reduce the number of parliamentary debates on the European Council and on European issues, from the current six debates to only two debates per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u14	It's not six!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u15	For the Greens, however, this claim represents a monumental attack on one of the most noble powers or powers of this sovereignty body, which is the Assembly of the Republic, with the aggravating of the monitoring of government activity in the context of European issues where, outside this debate, little scrutiny is objectively possible. But it is still a proposal that is part of a more global effort to weaken the powers of the Assembly of the Republic. A package which also included the proposed limitations for the rise of petitions to plenary or the reduction of the number of debates with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u16	That's another point!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u17	It happens that, by substantially weakening the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, we are, of course, also weakening democracy itself. This is in addition to being a proposal that does not at all contribute to credibility of this sovereignty body, on the contrary. For this reason, the Greens voted against these proposals and we believe that the President of the Republic has made a good decision, because it is a pretense that nothing interests our democratic life and parliamentary life. This is, in our view, an absolutely unqualified claim and whose boldness is only understandable if the reasons that led the PSD and PS bring it to debate and vote are linked to the fear of political combat by the PSD and PS. Therefore, the Greens can only expect that this decision of the President of the Republic represents a definitive brake on this design, the PSD and the PS, to seek to weaken the powers of the Assembly of the Republic and to weaken the supervisory powers of this sovereignty body on the activity of the Government in such important matters as European issues. Finally, we regret that the President of the Republic has not followed the same path as regards the reduction or the end of the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u18	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first hour, the CDS has been against this process of relativising the parliamentary supervision of government action. So what now happens, as a result of a veto by the President of the Republic, is what is required in democracy to happen. That is, when there are those who want to reduce the role of Parliament, when there are those who want to reduce the intervention of oppositions in the supervision of the government, there must also be those who, in this case the President of the Republic, of course, say that this is not the right way, that this is not the way to deepen democracy. What we sincerely hoped for after the veto of the President of the Republic was not that the Socialist Party should now insist on a clearly wrong path which was also considered by the President of the Republic. We were expecting you not to insist on what Mr. President of the Republic has vetoed, but to interpret the veto as the need to also revert to the amendment which you made to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and which could not have been vetoed by the President of the Republic. In other words, we expected them to realize that they should retreat not only in the European debates, not only in the right of petition, but also in the 15-year debates and thus reject the previous regime. The Socialist Party in doing what it is doing is not only facing the veto of the President of the Republic, as it is also facing what is most fundamental in a democracy, which is this parliamentary scrutiny that we must do. Therefore, in the specific case of what we are discussing — the European debates — we are not discussing the Council and we are discussing it twice a half a year and that it is more or less the same thing that is a very deep rejection! It's a deep slide! In other words, it is to consider that, for the country, it is exactly the same as discussing the agenda of a Council and the position that the Government of Portugal will take on each of its points or discuss the state of the art of the Union! But how can they be the same? Oh, my God! In each Council, very important matters are discussed in which it is essential to know the principle position of the Government of Portugal and in which it is essential that the Government of Portugal, when speaking, know very well the positions of the different political forces in this Parliament. It is not discussing the generalities that we have achieved, it is making concrete discussions on the agenda of the Councils. If we want a practical case of how this kind of reality fails, we will see what happened this week with the amendment of the fifteen-year debates to supposed thematic debates: the relativisation of the importance of scrutiny, the relativization of the interaction of concrete monitoring of government action makes Parliament's role much more relative. But we will always be on the side of those who want a deeper and more intense role for Parliament and not on the side of those who want a more relative role. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u20	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the debates on matters of the European Union and the participation of Portugal, the alternative that the PSD and PS, from the beginning, is almost loaded: there is no longer any debate in plenary on the European Councils, because PS and PSD so defend it, and there is, in plenary, how many debates are decided, whenever, in the parliamentary committee, PS and PSD feel there must be. We do not agree that there are plenary sessions to discuss European Councils — two per semester — and that there are no more plenary sessions to debate European Councils beyond this measure. For a simple reason: there can be and will certainly be many situations in which there are fundamental decisions, not only in the context of the European Union, but in particular with regard to the situation in Portugal in this context. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable that a decision taken in the context of the European Council only involves the scrutiny and supervision by the Assembly of the Republic if, however, by a majority, in this particular case, there is a decision in this direction in the parliamentary committee. That's unacceptable! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the PS and PSD consider, or considered, that the debates on matters of the European Union and Portugal in the European Union are not relevant enough to be carried out, because we do not consider it. We believe that its relevance just requires that the debates take place rather than cancel—which is what the PS and PSD are proposing. If the criterion for the adoption of the law was the concrete follow-up to the meetings of the European Council on the issues decided there, on the position of the Portuguese Government and on what on our behalf is defended by Portugal at these meetings of the European Council, then why only two debates on the European Council for each semester? Why not follow you systematically, in all Councils, even in those who are beyond that account? That is what is in force and that must remain in force. While the PS and PSD say with great generosity that there may even be more follow-up and debate in plenary because there is this figure provided for in (a) we say that this can already happen and that it is not new.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u22	You can!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u23	What is needed is to continue to deepen the supervision and follow-up by the Assembly of the Republic and not the other way around. The law that PS and PSD intend to adopt now, with this nuance, thus creates a serious precedent, which is that for the first time, the Assembly of the Republic establishes a monitoring and monitoring of the issues of the European Union and the Portuguese participation, in the sense of diminishing from what existed. Until now, the amendments to the monitoring of the European Union's issues have always been in depth: there has been an increase in matters, decisions and initiatives in this follow-up. But here we would be faced with the reverse case. We do not agree with this devaluation in the name of a supposed relevance, which is a contrast, a contradiction. What is certainly not necessary is not to make simulations of participation and citizenship around debates on the future of Europe — in fact, the pretext for further steps to deepen the submission of sovereignty — when, at the same time, the Assembly withdraws from the Republic's capacity to vote and to monitor government action. We disagree, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u24	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The veto of the President of the Republic, who has finally decided, even for a few moments, motivated by the electoral interest, to exchange selfies for work to ensure the regular functioning of the institutions, allows us to discuss again the reduction in the number of debates on European issues. We have already said this: this proposal is, on the one hand, bad and, on the other, bad. It is bad because it devalues European issues and would be right for those who find the European Union an inert and useless thing, and also for those who see only a pig-male in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u27	The European Union is nothing like that. The European Union is present on the day-to-day basis of the Portuguese, regulates the products sold in Portugal, supervises the financial sector. It is, or should at least be a creator of opportunities for all citizens, and it is the guardian of the free movement of persons, goods and capital. But it's not a porcupine. All that the European Union is subsidizing is paid by taxes from its citizens. On the other hand, this proposal is very bad. It is very bad because it decreases the level of scrutiny of the Prime Minister and the Government, at a time when it is most necessary, and devalues the European dimension of policy in Portugal. All of this, we cannot forget, proposed by the PSD, approved by the PS, both allegedly Europeanist parties and, allegedly, with interest in the development of European policy. For our part, it will not be the Liberal Initiative to help drive the Portuguese people away from Europe further, and therefore we support the maintenance of the initial formula of the European debates, to which today's proposal to 25. the hour, by PS, nothing adds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u28	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP, from the very first moment, has also opposed this amendment, in fact in relation to the preparatory debates for the European Council, either in reducing the 15-year debates or other forms of participation, particularly the citizen participation, because the position of the central bloc is no longer aimed at emptying our democratic process. In good time, Mr. President of the Republic vetoed this diploma. The one that is today the proposal brought either by the PS or by the PSD has to no extent solved the structural issues of this amendment: we will in fact ensure that this House also has a word to say, for more than once we take up the European presidency. We cannot, in fact, agree. It is not enough for the PS to come, at times such as the State Budget or the Economic Recovery Plan, to extend its hand and request that there be consensus, to ask for dialogue points, when, later, throughout the year, it destroys the foundations of the democratic participation of the other political forces, giving the hand to the PSD. Therefore, the PS will also have to decide on which side it will be and who it is for partners, especially if you want to build the country's future, particularly with concerns about democratic participation. This is because we do not only have socio-economic challenges. democracy is currently witnessing something that has undermined citizens' confidence in political life. We have seen worrying numbers of abstention, but they do not only fight in electoral times, they also fight with the example we give and call people and show that a prime minister comes to this House, which is available to come and talk to the other political forces, to hear who is in this House. If we really want to dignify the work of this Parliament, this is not done with a back-to-back government aimed at the Assembly of the Republic. That is why the NAP has not followed and will not follow these amendments, because indeed they do not dignify the work of this Parliament or enrich our democracy. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u30	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It has been against this amendment and it will be against it again. We had, this week, the example of a prime minister who came here, heard questions from everyone and didn't hear questions from anyone and, in the end, he himself became confused, thinking he had to answer questions when he had to ask questions when he had finally not to ask any more questions. That is what we did with the amendments in Parliament: we managed to make the Prime Minister completely confused, not knowing whether or not he had to answer us, and a President of the Assembly of the Republic had to correct him and to tell him that it was not even to answer our questions. That's what they did in Portugal! More than that, they managed to reduce the European debates to four months of the Portuguese presidency of the European Union. What a fine example we have for our European partners in the field of debate and scrutiny. But our President of the Republic deserves a final note. As Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo said here, the President of the Republic finally agreed, at the end of a few years, to say that this cannot be so, that transparency is required and that he wanted to see the Prime Minister more time in Parliament, when a few months earlier he had said that António Costa has done all he can to defend democracy in Portugal. Congratulations, Mr President, because you have managed to wake up for a country in which democracy is more and more suffocated in Parliament at three months'time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u32	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u33	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. If this rule is adopted today, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa will have a new mission: veto it or explain to the Portuguese why he let it pass now equal or practically equal to what it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u35	Mr Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to ask the Members. Members who carefully read the veto of the President of the Republic. The veto of Mr President of the Republic says to them that, and suggests, there is another debate per semester. I was also asking the ladies. Members reading Article 15 very carefully. the Treaty on European Union, which provides for two ordinary meetings of the European Council, per semester.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u37	Ordinary! Ordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u38	As everyone knows since 2009, since there is a single President of the European Council, there are European Councils that are to mark the agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u39	Oh, it is! Is that
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u40	... but then there are other European Councils which have, in fact, a very relevant agenda, so the Committee on European Affairs may request a preparatory debate with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u41	Can you see it soon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u42	No, you don't see it! They must also rely on the reasonableness of the honourable Member. Therefore, what is now proposed is a perfect alignment, if we wish, with the veto of the President of the Republic, accepting his reparations in full, and an alignment with what is in the Treaty on European Union, and that is all. It is not true that there is a decrease in European debates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u43	Yes, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u44	... first, because there are only two debates per semester in the European Treaty. There may never be extraordinary European Councils, but when there are them and the agenda is relevant, we will be here to debate with Mr Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u45	Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This amendment was condemned at least to show that all parties, after all, want the European Union and are in favour of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u47	Exactly! [[PCP and ENP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u48	But there is something else we can agree with: who thinks that the debates on the European Council have been successful, have had the space they deserve? Do you all agree? Of course they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u50	We already realize that this overlap of debates does not work...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u51	Get out of there, get rid of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u52	...and there are criticisms and doubts that are legitimate. I am now taking this debate because I believe that there is an evolution in the positions that can be more effective. But it is also important to say that many people debate this issue and ignore the current rules,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u53	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u54	...because the rules have always admitted to mark all the debates they wanted. And there is something else that has also happened, which was to consider that this week's debate has already been by the new model of the Rules of Procedure. It wasn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the new model yet. Mr Ventura was talking here about the confusion that goes at the head of the Prime Minister, I think it's going a great mess in his head, because here he talks a lot about European values, but then his European companies are antidemocratic, anti-European, anti-human values, anti-European rights! I don't know what the biggest mess is. There's a lot in the Prime Minister's head, but there's a lot in his head. But it was also good to see today all the left, which is usually even anti-European construction, so concerned about the European Union. It's already a great victory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u55	With no further inscriptions, we move to the second point of our agenda, which is also a review, this time of Decree No 55 / XIV—Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August (Exercise of the right to petition). You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the review of the veto of the President of the Republic on amendments to the exercise of the right of petition, we have the opportunity to revisit a subject on which, once again, the debate has not set itself in the objectives to which the proposal is proposed. As has been mentioned, we have a problem, if we want, with the appreciation of the petitions, since we have an extraordinarily significant delay in the response time which Parliament often gives to the citizens. Even in this current legislation, therefore, at the beginning of the second Legislative Session, we began to schedule to plenary the petitions relating to this, to the XIV Legislation, already with an entire Legislative Session of delay,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u57	And about the veto will you say something? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u58	... that is, we clearly have a gap between what is expected of the citizens who ask Parliament to see their questions answered and the time that Parliament takes to answer. To this end, we have sought to streamline the way in which we organize the debate by putting and introducing a new figure, that of the debate in the Commission, in order to ensure faster processing and to ensure that petitions are able to be addressed by Parliament and the citizens have an answer. Mr President of the Republic looked at the initiative put forward and adopted here and understood that it could give an opposite signal in order to reduce the democratic participation of citizens. What was meant was precisely the other way around, it was to ensure that citizens had an early response and, in fact, to ensure that the debate took place in committee, giving a response to the citizens' request. in this sense, and given that the legislative process involves the participation of Parliament but also the promulgation of Mr President of the Republic, we believe it is possible to seek a broader consensus and build a solution that maintains this objective to ensure timely response to petitions and citizens and at the same time rationalise and ensure these principles which Mr President of the Republic has stated. We therefore propose, in this debate, that an amendment be made to the vetoed Decree in the following sense: firstly, finding a value, a number of signatures for debate in plenary which is likely to compare with other requirements of signatures in the legislation in force and we set it at 7500, slightly rising in relation to the model currently in force,... [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] ... but also at the same time increasing the possibility of debate in Parliamentary committee. So where we were to have discussions for petitions with more than 4000 signatures before, we will have discussions with at least over 2500 signatures. So there will be more parliamentary debate in committee than to date with the law in force — and we are not even talking about the vetoed diploma — and we will also have a reasonable criterion, which meets the concern of the President of the Republic, with regard to the debates in plenary. In addition, an issue I have already mentioned, but which is very emphasized as one of the complaints that citizens make, has to do with the rules on the scheduling of committees. Of course, the objective of scheduling petitions for plenary in order of entry has the advantage of allowing them to be chained and, therefore, ensure that there is no unequal treatment in petitions that enter Parliament. However, there is a problem: in cases where clearly what citizens are asking for is linked to a certain date or to a certain event, it is absurd that Parliament, one year after the event that is petitioned or whose performance is demanded, will discuss the matter. This clearly goes to the back of the proposalers' intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u59	The rapporteur who is moving forward! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u60	Let us look at one example: obviously not in favour of what is asked of Parliament about the 25 April Commemoration, the fact is that thousands of citizens have petitioned the Assembly of the Republic on the holding of the ceremony of 25 April this year, which will be appreciated with some luck next year in 2021. Clearly, it is a situation for which we must find a solution and what we propose, too, is that it is possible for the rapporteur of the opinion on the petition to propose the early schedule of it, to ensure that it does not lose its present. It is also a mechanism which enables Parliament to respond more effectively to the questions which citizens ask it, not in order to reduce the intervention in plenary of the issues which citizens bring, but precisely to ensure that the House as a whole, in plenary or in committee, responds promptly to what is requested. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u61	You now have the floor by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The veto of the President of the Republic to the decree which he intended to amend the Law of the Exercise of the Right of Petition comes to meet the concerns raised by the Greens in this plenary, particularly when, about two months ago, we discussed this proposal. It was a PSD proposal, which had in fact the support of the PS, and had as its main objective to hinder the discussion in plenary of petitions promoted by the citizens. Moreover, as we said at the time, the PSD did not hide its real motivation, as, moreover, it was found in the explanatory statement accompanying its draft law. The PSD said that today, in the face of new technologies and facilitation in the collection of signatures, 4000 signatures cannot be considered a large number. But we made the accounts and confirmed that 4000 are always 4000,... [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] ... irrespective of the degree of difficulty with regard to the collection of signatures. It's easier or harder, we'll always be talking about 4,000 citizens. On the other hand, the Greens greatly value this important instrument, the petition, of our democracy, which, in fact, wants to participate. And, therefore, any attempt to hinder citizens' access to the mechanisms that allow them to bring matters that they consider important for discussion in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic will be a strong step back on the path that this House has been building to empower and allow citizens to participate in political and parliamentary life. It will therefore know for our part the most lively opposition, since the Greens consider that living in democracy should not be exhausted only in the act of voting every four years. Living in democracy means much more, it means actively participating in public life, in the management of the public thing and, if possible, every day. We therefore vote against this strange claim by the PSD, but also by the PS, which we consider absolutely unacceptable, without any sense and even against the current. In fact, what is required is precisely the opposite, it is to strengthen the mechanisms that can promote and enhance participatory democracy and not prevent or hinder citizens from participating in public life management or even reporting problems that they consider important, as they intended to do the PSD and PS. I conclude by saying that this decision by the President of the Republic can be read as an attempt to remind both the PSD and the PS that it is not enough to say that they greatly value the citizens'initiative whenever we discuss petitions here and even enhance the virtues of participatory democracy. The proposals they put forward must be in line with the speeches they make. However, what the PSD and PS have approved was precisely intended to make it difficult for citizens to access this important instrument of our democracy, which is the petition. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, we all remember the sad episode, which took place at the end of the previous Legislative Session, in which the PSD, in a true autocratic drive, came to propose a real law of the roulha regarding the right of petition. This initiative meant that only petitions signed by more than 10 000 citizens would be discussed in plenary. The President of the Republic has come to effectively veto this initiative, in contravention of his party and the will of his party. But I remember that at the time the NAP voted against this anti-democratic proposal of the PSD because it considered that it closed Parliament to the demands of civil society, in addition to being an incoherent amendment to the progress made in recent years towards simplification in the exercise of the right of petition, an important citizen participation tool, the process of which the PSD itself accompanied. It is not surprising that this lamentable proposal came from the PSD, a party that seems to us that long ago has been leaving its founding matrix, which has somehow nightmared Ventura, and whose leader, Dr. Rui Rio, well we know, did not predominate for a democratic position as President of the House of Port. [[PSD protests.]] What scares us is that today's debate only occurs because the PS, to satisfy the whims of Dr. Rui Rio, approved this proposal, not hesitated to sweep beneath the carpet what is its history and tradition of clear defense of participatory democracy and fundamental rights of participation in public life. This lamentable preambular central block that we saw in July, either in the right of petition, either as regards the end of the 15-year debates or the amendment to the electoral law of the local bodies, demonstrated how dangerous these agreements between the PS and the PSD, sometimes made clear, others behind the curtain, are for the health of our democracy and for the rights of the citizens. But in good time Mr President of the Republic vetoed this amendment and made it with clear and interesting warnings. We hoped that the PS and PSD, parties which, in fact, constitute the electoral base for support to the President, could hear them and not insist on this mistake. Sadly, our best expectations have been disappointed. As Mr President of the Republic said, at the time, the PSD vision, supported by the PS, rather than weakening democracy, creates fertile ground for dangerous populisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a democracy the demands of citizens are never too much. in a democracy discussing citizens' hopes can never be seen as an obstacle to the effectiveness of parliamentary work or as a mere bureaucracy. On the contrary: democracy reaches its full, fulfils its wish, precisely when the demands and aspirations of citizens are discussed by its elected representatives in this one which must be the House of Democracy, the House of citizenship. That is why on this occasion, contrary to the PS and PSD, the NAP will continue to be where it has always been, that is, on the side of the commitment to the defence of participatory democracy, which was made clear, for example, by the adoption of an extension of the matters which can be the subject of citizens' legislative initiative, and the defence of transparency in the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic, which is clear, for example, in the proposal for the establishment of a legislative footprint mechanism which will soon be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u65	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u66	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u67	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u68	Why can you say that, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u69	Of course, Mr. President. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has just said that the PSD is not a democratic party and that one of her Members is not a democratic person.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u70	All right. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has sometimes used the lamentable adjective in her speech. With regard to this, of that and the other, « lamentable». Mrs. Deputy, that was your speech! [[PSD applause.]] And regrettably, Mrs Deputy, it was you who said that the PSD is not a democratic party. The PSD has been founded for more than 40 years. Their founders were deeply democratic people. Now, how many years ago has the NAP been founded and what is the democratic origin of the NAP founders? We'd like to get a little bit of the story. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] And, Mrs Deputies, saying that a member of my party is not a person with a behavior, with a profile and a history of democracy, it is an insult that insults us all because we are all members of Parliament, but, above all, should beat him in his conscience. Dr. Rui Rio has proved that he is a deeply democratic man throughout his career and political journey and was a deeply democratic man as President of the Port House. And see, Mrs. Deputy, for your sake, was elected in 2001, re-elected in 2005, re-elected in 2009. Therefore, in his perspective, the people of Porto are stupid because he has been electing an individual who is not democratic. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Member, please apologize to the PSD and Dr. Rui Rio. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u72	To explain, if you wish, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u73	Mr President, the NAP subscribes to what I have said, because it seems to us that the PSD must be able to honour what I have said in my speech, which is its historical genesis of democratic participation, of struggle for freedom and citizen participation. [[PSD protests.]] What we have seen in this House of Democracy is precisely the antithesis of what is in the founding genesis of the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, let my intervention no longer serve than to keep this flame alive, Mr Commissioner, and to help the PSD to remember what is on its bases and its origin. [[PAN's applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u74	In closing this incident, I give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the veto of Mr President of the Republic, which has changed the selfies for the work of the President, will allow us to discuss again a diploma that has passed in this House and that would result in a decrease in the representation of the will of the citizens through the instrument of petitions. To reduce the capacity of citizens to discuss in plenary in this House what they consider relevant, claiming that such discussion interferes with parliamentary work, is to deny a truth that has to be repeated here. Parliamentary work is not only to monitor the action of the government, but is also and often, above all, to give answers and to echo people's concerns. We maintain and strengthen the position we originally took in the discussion on this topic: the Liberal Initiative is against any limitation of the democratic rights of the Portuguese and, in particular, against the limitation of their rights to present and to see their petitions discussed in plenary. Once again, we must regret that anyone who claims to be opposed runs away from the responsibilities that are incumbent upon them, above all: to question and examine the government, in this case, through the petitions that the citizens intend to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u76	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These proposals made by the Socialist Party, following the presidential veto of the diploma on the right to petition, are as regrettable as the text that gave rise to this veto precisely.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u79	The question that is at the table is essentially about reducing the participatory democracy that was intended to restrict the right of 4000 citizens, subscribers to a petition, to be appreciated by the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. Basically, the basis of the veto was what we called upon to vote against this text, because it seems to us that, when it is so attacked, representative democracy does not defend itself by restricting participatory democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u81	We maintain our position and consider that, just as the text adopted here has been regrettable, the proposals for the amendment of the Socialist Party are also regrettable, which we cannot accept. There are several proposals, some of which were not planned for the debate we had at the end of the past Legislative Session. Firstly, the Socialist Party proposes to introduce a provision which should not take place here and which refers to the legislative initiative of citizens. There is a law for the legislative initiative of citizens, which is not this, because this is about the right to petition. When citizens present a legislative initiative, the Assembly of the Republic may propose to them the following: 'As a legislative initiative goes nowhere, but we can freeze this in petition'... Well, if the citizens wanted to present a tê-CL petition, they would do so and if they wanted to do so, they could do so. Therefore, it makes no sense to be entering into a law on the right to petition a provision which, when much, could take place in the law on the exercise of the right of legislative initiative by citizens. I repeat, we believe that it makes no sense to propose this here. The Socialist Party then proposes that the rapporteur of a petition be able to recommend his urgent reorganization, i.e. by passing over other petitions. This has two perverse effects, one is the pressure on the rapporteur to consider that this petition is very urgent, otherwise it may be understood by the subscribers who are devalued that petition. However, by doing so, it is devaluing the others and we understand that the citizens who make petitions to the Assembly of the Republic have the same right and the same legitimacy to see them discussed. This criterion of the order of drawing up reports is objective, treats citizens equally and therefore we see no reason to be confusing here. Let us then turn to the last question, which is the number of signatures necessary for a petition to be discussed in plenary. The original initiative went from 4000 to 10 000 citizens and now comes the Socialist Party to say that it remains in the 7000. This seems to be the case with those traders who say: "Do you think 10 000 is very expensive? So let's take a little look! It goes to 7500. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a very important issue in democracy, such as the exercise of the right to petition, and we will therefore vote against the proposals put forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u82	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, first of all, that the origin of this veto was an amendment whose arguments are not sound and which obviously did not make any sense. When what we have discussed in Portugal, and not only is it a crisis of representative democracy and even a crisis of democracy in general, what do the PS and PSD propose? They propose to reduce participation rights, to reduce citizens' rights, when it should be exactly the opposite. That is why what has been approved is, of course, a reduction in citizens' rights, a decrease in the role of Parliament in general and a fall in democracy and parliamentary representation. That is why, of course, we agree with the veto of the President of the Republic. In my view, however, it is important to make the following clear: this veto, which is sinning for something, is only sinning for scarceness. Just sin on a rare basis, I repeat. And I say that you can sin rarely on the basis of two very simple arguments, firstly, because the veto tells us that "with due respect" and I am quoting, "is a negative sign for Portuguese democracy", but I think it is much more than that, I think it is a very serious sign for Portuguese democracy. On the other hand, we have discussed two vetoes today, one first on European debates and now another on petitions and citizens' initiative... it is a little as if the President of the Republic had brought us to the discussion the entries, or the acepips, if they want, and now we are discussing the dessert. We do not discuss what was essential to this attack on parliamentary democracy, which was the end of the debates and, in particular, the end of the 15-year debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u85	It is true that Mr President of the Republic could not veto the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly because it was not in his capacity to do so, but it was in his capacity to pronounce himself. The President of the Republic is not the Queen of England, who, as we know, murmurs. The President of the Republic speaks and, moreover, speaks widely about the most varied matters, so in our view, he could have said anything about the end of the 15th-year debate. Perhaps this discussion deserved further attention and other concern. With regard to what we have here, of course, to diminish citizens' rights is to promote populism, let us be clear. And now, the proposals that bring us — the proposals that the Socialist Party brings to us and which, I assume, will have the same majority of support as the original diploma — are like a sort of shame, a negotiation and a half shame. In other words, there is no longer a « can » to propose 10 000, then 7500 are proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u86	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u87	Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that this is a Solomonic solution, which obviously cannot deserve our approval. What I was, I was fine and it didn't make sense to change. At least, then, let them now retreat and be clear on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u88	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can already see from this morning's debate and from the many debates outside this House that there is no limit to populism and demagogy in this matter. In fact, Mr President, it might be good to think about starting to charge tax on demagogy, as we were dealing with the deficit in public accounts completely covered by 2020. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? We cannot honestly say from Monday to Friday that we need to strengthen the role of parliamentary committees, invest millions of euros — millions of euros, I repeat — in order to allow the work of committees to be transmitted throughout the country, that parliamentary committees are worthy to hold a debate and seek candidates from the Constitutional Court, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, to listen to all the Ministers and then to say that to debate petitions committees have no dignity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u90	That's hypocrisy, it's demagogy, it's populism, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]] Moreover, the petition instrument has already made a mistake, because it gives people the idea that their problem will be solved by mere debate. We know that, unfortunately, this is not true in most cases, creating false expectations. But worse than that, the instrument that is still in force does the following: someone makes a petition, because he thinks that matter is relevant, and then waits one, two or three years until this matter is discussed in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. We have been discussing petitions for 2013 this week!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u92	Do you see that? Oh, my God! Do you understand that we are discussing petitions from the previous legislature? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u93	Which one? Oh, my God! 2013? Oh, my God! And he's still talking about demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u94	This makes no sense, it's cheating people. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask: what is best, to deceive people by saying 'present, because we are going to discuss your matter quickly', or to say'some will be appreciated in Parliamentary committee, because you have the dignity that we believe you should have, and others in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, so that this debate can take place effectively in good time'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u95	But what was the 2013? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u96	Finally, this argument is put forward: "Ah, but passing this to committees is a democratic retreat! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So let's think about the contrary, which is very simple, because what we want is the advance of democracy and instead of the 4000 signatures, we are going down to 2000, to 1000, to 500, to 2, to 1, and we are turning this House into a simple debate of petitions and the parties no longer have time to schedule legislative initiatives or to make the debates that you think are important — and they are! — to monitor the activity of the Government. My friends...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u97	My friends? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u98	...you can't want everything at the same time. Be realistic and realize that what you're saying is pure demagogy to hunt vows to people who are less attentive. For us, we kept our initial position, without any stir. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u99	That was 15,000!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u100	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It must be borne in mind that the President of the Republic could not effectively have vetoed the rules of procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. He could not have done so, in an obvious logic of separation of powers. But only last year did the President of the Republic talk about matters related to it, since the need for government agreements, as he did yesterday, moving from the need for the replacement of ministers, to the rotation of ministers, to the time of meeting with the Prime Minister during the week. She was saving people on the beach, entering cities to give hugs and kisses, walking on tractors, cars and bicycles, and being able to speak on all matters. In the middle of this, he went to Cristina's Program and various morning programs, cooked, played golf and made a whole range of pleasant situations. What he did not, because he could not, was to veto the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. As Mr Telmo Correia has said — and well! — when at least one word was expected from the right, for the first time, the President of the Republic said: 'I understand that I should not make a statement on this matter'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u102	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u103	I shall conclude by saying that the Assembly of the Republic cannot remain silent because for the first time a President of the Republic has been silent about the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u104	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President of the Republic did well to veto the law which PS and PSD approved in July, which increases the number of subscribers to 10 000 in a petition for discussion in plenary. And it was good for Mr President of the Republic to say in his message to this House that his veto came from an imperative of civic consciousness and that the law adopted by the central bloc is "a negative sign for democracy". It did well because, yes, it is a very negative sign that the civic consciousness of the Democrats can only repudiate, which PS and PSD have signalled with this law, that the civic mobilization that wants to have an interlocutor in Parliament is for them an outrage, an discomfort. We well know that this obstacle to the debate of petitions in plenary is part of a wider reform, agreed by the central bloc to convert the Assembly of the Republic into a set of technical committees, removing it from its irreplaceable role of political debate. We do not forget that this attempt to hinder the debate of petitions in plenary came together with the abolition of the 15-year debates with the Prime Minister and the transfer to committees of other important moments of political debate, withdrawing it from where it should take place, which is in this large Chamber of Democracy. All these are negative signs, all decreasing the intensity of parliamentary democracy. And now the PS is proposing that it is not 10 000 but 7500 subscribers required for the plenary to receive a petition. The PSD had proposed 15 000, but the thing was too scandalous and, from there, they woke up in 10,000! And now, after the just presidential repression, they come to test the "middle divide" of markets and fairs. No, sir. Members of the PS and PSD, this is not an auction in which if there is no higher obstacle, there is a slightly lower obstacle, because what matters is that there is an obstacle. If the signal they gave to democracy in July was negative, this is no less so. What is left of this sad story is your anger at the will of the people who mobilize themselves in the expectation that Parliament will discuss its problems and its claims. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u106	Then they will have to come with the language of the need to approach voters and electors. By the sample together, they will still have to invent another row in which, by reducing representativeness, they increase representative democracy. Against all this, I would like to assure you, on behalf of the Left Block, that our civic conscience requires us to resist and say 'no' to these maneuvers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u107	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke again for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u108	Mr. President, I did not ask for the floor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u109	Don't you? Don't you talk? The information we had on the table is that you were signing up to intervene...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u110	He's already said a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u111	If you want, I can say more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u112	Well, in that case, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, to conclude the debate, I want to leave two or three notes. First of all, I would like to point out that, with regard to the scope of the original proposal and the amendments outlined here, there are petitions that take more than one year to be scheduled and discussed and that there are citizens who do not respond to their concerns, apparently no one is concerned about this problem. But this is the problem that lies at the base of this agenda, this is the problem that lies at the basis of the review of the petitioning regime: to ensure that citizens, in good time, respond to what they ask Parliament to do. On the other hand, it is also strange that, apparently, and we have become aware today, the work in committee is not political work! There is no political work, no political debate, no representation of political parties! Apparently, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza said, it is a degradation in technical work. Mr President, that is not what we do in the committees, and if we want to value all the parliamentary work, including the much work that has been done in the parliamentary committees, I see no indignity in ensuring that it is the committees that give an answer and make the debate that citizens ask when they go to the House, more quickly than we currently have. On the other hand, and replying to Mr António Filipe, briefly, I would say that the possibility that we introduce to enable citizens' legislative initiatives to be brought together is precisely so that the citizens will not be left without a reply because they have resorted incorrectly to the legislative initiative mechanism when the law does not allow it. We have even one case under discussion at this time when the citizens have asked for the amendment to the Orthographic Agreement. It's not viable. Convolveing in petition better guard the position of the citizens. It also aims to ensure, objectively, that a matter relating to a concrete event over time is not discussed months or years after that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u114	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, Mr Telmo Correia, the salomonic epithet is not negative. The Salomonic epithet pulls for justice and balance, and that is what we are trying to take care of in this way, with these amendments, so that people have a faster response and Parliament tells the citizens what they want to hear, which is a position on their requests. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u116	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have thus reached the end of the debate on this item on today's agenda. I must inform you that we have a number of Members registered more than enough for us to have quorum. Parliamentary groups can therefore arrange to organize themselves, with the presence of some Members in the plenary and others in the cabinets. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u117	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Having resumed our work, we will start point 3 of today's agenda, the joint debate of Parliamentary Investigations Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( CH ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the financing of political campaigns by the Espírito Santo Group ( GES ), as well as the divestment operations of assets of the New Bank, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — possible parliamentary inquiry into the losses of the new bank charged to the Resolution Fund, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — possible parliamentary investigation commission for the reasons of the losses of the New Bank and 7 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — any parliamentary investigation commission for losses recorded by the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund. To make the presentation of the legislative initiative presented by the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have known for these days the details of the prosecution of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the case of the New Bank. We learned that we were facing crimes as serious as criminal association, corruption or ridicule, with the actual money of taxpayers, with the actual money of the Portuguese. In the crossing of this process with Operation Marquês we also learned that there was abusive, undue and continuous financing of electoral campaigns and politicians, through the « blue bag » of Banco Espírito Santo ( BES ) and fraudulent schemes that later demanded money from the Portuguese. Today it is time not to run away from this issue and from, beyond the sales of the New Bank, we investigate who, how and how he received money from the old Banco Espírito Santo to finance election campaigns; who, how and how he received money, often criminal, to be able to finance his campaigns and his political project, while attacking others for, supposedly, being also funded in his electoral campaigns. There is a need for transparency, legality and, above all, very careful use of taxpayers' money. That is what we owe Portugal and this is the moment we can't leave behind, stop investigating to the end everything that happened in one of the most shameful episodes of our history. But at the same time, we know, because the audit revealed to us that there was a disastrous sale of New Bank assets, with the loss of hundreds of millions of euros, with goods sold below the market value, which would shame the most reliant real estate that the country may have. And more serious: with the permission of the regulator! And if some argue that we cannot investigate because it was authorized by the regulator, he says: we must above all investigate because it was authorised by the regulator, because this system is already too sinisterly organized to prevent the truth from being known. By the end of the year we will spend a lot more euros with the New Bank. We can spend several hundred million euros with the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u119	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u120	I will finish, Mr. President. Today it is our responsibility to look at this money, look at the money from the Portuguese purses and demand an endless investigation, without the need of scapegoats and without fear, to the one who was the greatest scandal in democracy in Portugal, in the use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u121	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know why BES failed, we know how he cannibalized Portugal Telecom, we know how he financed the Angolan elite, we know how he channeled bank resources and customers to bankrupt companies of the group. We know that none of this would have been possible without the use of an offshore network, which enjoyed the complacency, the convivence of governments and political representatives of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, but also enjoyed the kindness of the Banco de Portugal. We know the context of the BES resolution, which, on 4 August 2014, took the first step in the separation between the allegedly good assets, which remained in the New Bank, and the allegedly bad assets, which remained in the BES. The difference created a hole of EUR 4900 million, almost entirely paid by the State. And this is where the previous committee of inquiry finished its work. What happened after this is presented to us as a succession of inevitability that led the State to lose control of the New Bank for an abutre fund, while it continues to pay the losses that already amount to EUR 3000 million. Mrs. Members, over the past few years the New Bank has not ceased to be a subject in Parliament. Before the sale, in January 2017, the Left Block proposed maintaining the property of the bank in the public sphere, rejected by PS, PSD, and CDS. In April we proposed the Government's condemnation of the decision to sell without consultation with Parliament, rejected by PS and PSD. on the same day it entered the Bureau a project for the nationalization of the social capital of the New Bank, rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. Proposals were followed in the State budget to stop injections, hearings, requests for documentation, debates, articles, requests. We do not now pretend to be surprised by a disaster that we have always tried to avoid, yes, we want to clear up responsibilities. Who guaranteed that the New Bank was clean, even when it was obvious that it was not, has to account for the country. The Banco de Portugal cannot continue to hide the report which analyses its own intervention at BES. Those who guaranteed that the sale was the best solution, that they would not use public resources and that the guarantee was neither a guarantee to be held accountable to the country. Those who have signed a ruinous contract that has delivered "the knife and cheese" in the hands of an abutre fund and have left the bill for the Resolution Fund have to account for the country. But there are also new indications on sales and loss registration by Lone Star and the Administration of the New Bank that charge the invoice to the State. Someone is making money with this business in which the state just loses and we have to investigate these negotiations. After knowing Deloitte's audit to New Bank this investigation commission is more necessary and more urgent, because once proven its usefulness to assess the management acts of the New Bank, it will be inevitable to find an alternative that does not leave the public interest hostage to conflicts of interest. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary inquiry which we now propose is not only useful to establish political responsibilities in the past. We want it to be investigated to put an end to the ongoing abuse of existing resources in the New Bank. That is why we take this committee of inquiry so seriously. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u123	To introduce the legislative initiative of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As far as the New Bank is concerned, we have to take care of all the responsibilities for the whole process which has led to what could become the greatest expenditure of public money ever in Portugal. A number of judicial processes are under way to assess the wrongs committed by the leaders of the Holy Spirit Group, so Parliament should not overcome these investigations, but there remain well-founded and very important doubts about many events, decisions and responsibilities which, indeed, Parliament should help to dissipate. Therefore, the scope proposed by the Liberal Initiative for the Committee of Inquiry includes the period prior to the resolution, in which it remains completely incomprehensible to not make available the Banco de Portugal's internal study on its own activities as a supervisor and includes the period between resolution and definitive sale, in which there is reason to believe that the Government lied to Portuguese about the financial consequences of the operation, and finally includes the period after sale, where it is important to be sure that the decisions of the new administration have been, and will be compatible with the defence of the interest of taxpayers. To clarify, to make it clear, "letting in clean dishes" is our intention, so that the Portuguese know where their money went and where it went but, above all, not to stop the permanent suspicions about the New Bank, because all this negative attention on the bank erodes their reputation, hinders the management of the public interest and may damage the future of the workers of the New Bank, who are probably the most ignored victims of this whole circus. This Parliament has the power and obligation to end doubts and to defend taxpayers and workers of the New Bank. We will therefore accompany the proposals for the setting up of a committee of inquiry which have been the same subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u125	For the presentation of the PS legislative initiative, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party intends a parliamentary inquiry to the New Bank, from the day of the resolution to today. We intend, above all, with the parliamentary inquiry, to assess and ascertain in what circumstances the public interest has been damaged since the day the Banco de Portugal resolved BES, since the day the initial balance sheet of the New Bank was created until today. Today we have matters that we have not had in the past. We have a report of the audit promoted by a law passed in the Assembly of the Republic on the major processes that resulted in massive losses in the New Bank and which justified capital injections by the Resolution Fund with State loans. The parliamentary committee of inquiry today has the possibility of having access to information about bank and professional secrecy that it did not have in the past. This has already happened in the last Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box, which will also take place in this Committee of Inquiry to the New Bank. It is a valuable instrument that can determine responsibilities and responsible for the moments when the State has been injured. But there are two issues that are inconsequential; the first is that the New Bank exists because BES has failed and BES has failed because of mismanagement acts, because of serious failures done by the former responsible ones of BES and GES. Thus, the New Bank exists because it was the option of the resolution authority and the supervisor at the time, the Banco de Portugal, and a government. On the day they announced the New Bank, they promised a good bank, saying that the problematic assets had remained in the BES and had not transited to the New Bank. We know today that this is not true, we know that more than 90 % of the processes that have resulted in massive losses in the New Bank and have justified injections from the Resolution Fund originate in the BES. So, in our view, what this committee of inquiry has to do is to inquire from the beginning to the present day, without fear, without ghosts, because here we have the enormous responsibility to defend the public interest. The « disease » of BES has moved to the New Bank. This is the big conclusion that the Deloitte audit report brings us. The capitalisation of the New Bank has been made to benefits, this is what we have been told by the Resolution Fund, the Banco de Portugal, the Monitoring Committee and even former directors of the New Bank. But what is also important to examine is why in September 2015 it was decided to interrupt the sale of the New Bank, when Banco de Portugal publicly announced that there were three very good proposals from three entities, but in the meantime they decided not to sell the bank. Furthermore, in September 2015, the Banco de Portugal — it is enough to read the communiqués, which are available, made at the time — said that the New Bank was an attractive bank and the proof of this was that three entities with very good proposals had appeared. But then why did the Government and the Banco de Portugal at the time decide not to sell the New Bank when the licence of the transitional bank was close to the end? After three and a half months, the Banco de Portugal was obliged to forward EUR 2000 million of the bank's senior balance sheet obligations to BES, to save the New Bank from a resolution, a decision which weighed a lot on public debt interest in the rating of the Republic, as interest is fired by this decision of the Banco de Portugal and the State budget has gone to pay more interest on public debt on account of that decision. Now, we need to know what the reasons were and who those were responsible for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In three and a half months, from September 2015 to December 2015, the bank ceased to be attractive and, according to Banco de Portugal, became a bank with many processes, with problematic assets, all of them originating in BES. The 2017 sales process must also be inspected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u128	We agree with those who have doubts now have an opportunity in the parliamentary inquiry to undo the doubts. We had three options: either it was sold as it was sold — only one proposal appeared — or it was liquidated, or it was nationalized. from our point of view, from the data we have today, but the investigation will still deepen, settlement and nationalization had a very high cost, as in 2015 would also have and that is why they chose to sell. Then it is important to know why the audit points to 140 misconformities to the administration of the New Bank and we need to know whether these portfolios of assets, real estate and credits have or have not been sold to waste. This is the main objective of the parliamentary inquiry, without fear, from the day of the resolution to today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the stage of the proceedings, and you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Under the management of the one who is an absolutely abutre fund, of Lone Star, the New Bank has been a genuine damage-free hole to which the Government and the Resolution Fund have passed blank checks of many million euros and to whom the Banco de Portugal has allowed everything. How is it possible that Lone Star, at the height of the real estate bubble, has sold a portfolio of real estate, with a discount of almost 70 %, to a fund with strong links to the current President of the General Council and Supervision of the New Bank? Does the Government, the Government which has also preceded it, the Resolution Fund and the Banco de Portugal not know the concept of conflict of interest? It can be seen that the hearing in this House, in committee, of the President of the Banco de Portugal was very unclear in this regard. How can it be that Lone Star has been allowed to sell GNB Life, with a discount of almost 70 %, to a matrix fund linked to an American convicted of corruption and, above all, with a loan of 60 million euros granted—it is frightening! — by the New Bank? Oh, my God! If the State does not finance the balances of the Carcavels fair why will it finance the sales to the collapse of Lone Star, which, above all, are surrounded by so many doubts and suspicions? The Promovalue, connected to Luís Filipe Vieira, is also one of the biggest debtors of the New Bank. How is it possible that between 2014 and 2018 its debt increased from EUR 400 million to EUR 760, EUR 3 million? How is it possible that the New Bank and Lone Star have taken almost two years to meet the Resolution Fund requirement and to initiate an audit of loans to this company linked to a football figure? As if all these doubts and negotiations were not enough last year when the New Bank suffered a loss of more than EUR 1000 million, we saw bonuses being allocated different from the value of almost EUR 2 million to its administrators. Such by itself is already bad, but worse if we take into account that this value is twice as high as that which was paid by the BCP, which had a profit of more than 300 million euros, which makes us ask the New Bank, Lone Star and all those who have gone through who has been a baker of public money, how is it possible to get so away with the Portuguese people? The terms of the sale of the New Bank were absolutely toxic to the public interest, to taxpayers and to the balance of public accounts. It is necessary to clarify everything to clarify in this sale and in the waste sale operations that have occurred over the years. Without jeopardising the powers of justice, all responsibilities, designated and above all political responsibilities for what has happened in the New Bank in recent years need to be opened up. No aspect, no person can stay away from this clearance of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u131	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u132	I conclude now, Mr President. Since we are talking about the one who has been the bank of the regime for many years, we cannot fail to find out the dangerous links of BES and the New Bank to politics and some holders of political office. For this reason, the NAP will enable all the proposals that are being discussed here for the creation of this possible committee, on the ground that we fail to comply with what the citizens expect of us and that are the clarifications that are currently required, as well as the gap that has occurred in the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u133	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the financial crisis, the Portuguese have already paid more than EUR 20 billion to try to save the bank. When we talk about the problem of the New Bank, we are talking about a problem that has been dragging six years ago and therefore is not just a problem right now, it is a problem that was born with the PSD government and the CDS, which separated the bad BES from the good BES, when, apparently, six years later we continue looking for such a good bank. I do not know whether the former Minister of Finance, Mário Centeno, was right or not when he stated that « this was the most disastrous bank resolution ever made in Europe». What we know is that the PSD/CDS government has created a problem but has not solved it, and we also know that it was a wrong-born process, and what «is born wrong, late or never right», even though it is said that it is clear. Anyway, what is true is that taxpayers are already tired of paying for bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities. This cannot continue to happen and it is necessary to put an end to this immorality and to this gross injustice. And, as we have already mentioned on other occasions, from our perspective, the end of this immorality should begin with the New Bank. Thus, it must begin with the solution that reduces the burden on taxpayers and that best serves the interests of the country. This must be the solution to be adopted in the case of the New Bank, but for this it is necessary for the State to take account of the New Bank, that it should remain in the hands of the State in order to thus enable the State to place it at the service of the development of the country and of our economy, at the service of the interests of the Portuguese and at the service of the interests of our country. This is because, if the State pays, the New Bank must be in the hands of the State, in the hands of those who pay. However, and in addition, in seeking to defend the public interest and seeking to accentuate a culture of democratic responsibility, it is necessary to understand the causes of the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund, it is necessary to detect the decisions that originated, identify the political leaders for these decisions and pass the fine slope the current management of the New Bank. in this context, the Greens consider that it is at all opportunity to set up a committee of possible parliamentary inquiry to the New Bank, a commission of inquiry that enables us not only to identify the acts that have caused the damage of the New Bank, which, as we know, are being borne by the taxpayers from the moment of the resolution until today, but also its leaders, so that the blame will not die again. Therefore, in view of the four proposals we are discussing today for the establishment of a possible parliamentary inquiry committee to the New Bank, the Greens will not vote against any of them, but will only vote in favour of those who wish to have an impact on the purpose of the committee of inquiry on the acts which have been carried out since the resolution process until today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u135	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing a number of initiatives to set up a committee of inquiry on the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund, i.e. all Portuguese. The CFP will not create any obstacle to the establishment of this committee of inquiry and we will participate in its work, as always, in order to ascertain the facts and the political responsibilities. Having said that, we cannot fail to say that for the CFP, the committee of inquiry should not serve to "throw sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese. It should not be for the Portuguese to watch the usual manifestations of stupefaction and indignation, the usual pass-through between PS and PSD, that nothing solves, especially when PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal Initiative and Arrivals joined in a large coalition last week to lead the PCP initiative to ensure public control of the New Bank. Inflation, outrage, guilt is little when the same parties responsible for the political decisions that caused the State to bury close to EUR 9 billion in the New Bank reject that, since we paid it, unless the bank is placed in the public sphere and at the service of the country. PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal and Arrival Initiative opted to defend the interests of economic groups and financial capital by rejecting public control. In other words, they accept this real scandal in which the State pays but does not send, in which the losses are public but the good assets will be delivered to a private group and foreign capital, as happened in BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ) and Banif ( International Funchal Bank ). We will not contribute to the commission of inquiry so that PS, PSD and CDS cover up, with scenes of stupefaction, indignation and guilt or with the search for scapegoats, their responsibilities throughout this process, from BES to the New Bank. We will not contribute to the whitening of responsibilities, as happened in the committee of inquiry to BES, where the vast responsibilities in the BES universe, its tempting network involving the large economic groups and successive governments at its service, with the approval of the Banco de Portugal, were hidden by the the thesis that what happened at BES was work and grace from a single person, without morals and without scruples.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u137	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u138	The CFP was the only party to vote against the conclusions of this committee of inquiry because we did not accept this whitening of responsibilities, including successive right-wing governments. Let's hope this time they don't make the same mistakes. Mrs. Members, this new committee of inquiry should examine the period following which we have examined in the committee of inquiry at BES. Starting with the resolution measure, in which the PSD/CDS government lied to the Portuguese, when it said that it was possible to solve the bank with the remaining funds of the troika and the division between the bad bank and the supposed good bank, which was also bad. Then passing through the ruinous privatisation process, decided by the PS government, where the bank was handed over at zero cost to Lone Star, giving as collateral the 3, 9 billion euros, which we continue to pay. Finally, by analysing all the current administration's business: sales to scrapping, sales to related parties, impartiality policy, refinancing of problematic assets against the New Bank's own risk opinions, debt losses and, in each of these, the failures of the alleged control mechanisms of the Banco de Portugal and the contradictions of the Government, when it announced a cost-free solution for taxpayers. We will have another committee of inquiry, we may have a few more audits. Everything that serves for greater public clarification will have our support. But let us not forget that the Portuguese have already buried close to EUR 9 billion — in fact, only EUR 900 million is missing from the public guarantee — and at this crucial moment more than audits and investigations, what is needed is political will to ensure that a bank which is paid by all of us is effectively placed in the public sphere. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u139	Mr. Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To begin with, I would like to make it clear that the Social Democratic Party defends the establishment of this committee of inquiry on the New Bank, but a committee on the New Bank. It has already been said here that some of the parties argue that the committee of inquiry must start at the time of the resolution and move forward, but there are proposals in this Parliament that advocate that it should go back, that it should turn to the BES, that the responsibles of the BES should be called again to ascertain what has already been achieved by this Parliament. We're not available for that. We really want to discuss the truth of what has happened in the New Bank since the resolution. Six years have passed since the BES resolution. The criminal authorities seem to have no doubt as to who they are responsible for, and as you said, there was a committee of inquiry in this Parliament that opened up this period of time, but the damage that has been attributed to all of us cannot leave the Portuguese to rest. The State has already provided more than EUR 6, EUR 5 billion over this time to the New Bank. However, we saw the sale of assets from the bank, which were supposed to be good, with a discount, because after all, they are bad. We watched for sale, for example, of the insurance company Quietness, assessed, at some point, in 700 million euros, by 44 million and then resold by the Fund Apollo much more, i.e., almost by the value of the initial assessment that had been made. What happened? Why was it 44 million and not the 700 or a value close to that? We have the sale of real estate assets and credit portfolios and suspicions of conflict of interest. The New Bank may still have the quota capital mechanism at a value of up to EUR 1 billion, i.e. EUR 900 million. The bank officials and regulators say it's all right, that everything has been done within the law, and the government passes the checks, without scrutiny it must pay. the money that the State has injected tells us that it will be one day returned with interest, these more than EUR 6 billion. But these more than EUR 6 billion, even if one day they are being returned, have not ceased to affect the Portuguese deficit and to condition the government and the state's performance on the political options it makes at any time, particularly when it has to decide, for example, how much more it should invest in health, the more it should invest in education. Because of the weight of the New Bank, this management that the government and the State make is much more limited. It can't be like that! On the committee of inquiry, we are presented with a number of proposals in what seems to be a real competition to see who gets the medal of the first initiative. But there are no illusions! All parties must be united for public clarification. We want to evaluate the resolution measure, we want to evaluate the injection of public money to cover the losses of the New Bank, aggravated by the sale of assets with a large discount. We want to know whether there is a conflict of interest in the sale of New Bank assets and whether Lone Star is a party to business. We want to know the details of the New Bank's sales business and the role of the Ministry of Finance, the Government and the European authorities in this whole process. The PSD will vote in favour of the proposal of the Left Block, without reservations. We are reminded of what it contains: public clarification, defending the truth and taxpayers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u141	The PSD addresses these objectives and will therefore vote in favour of the proposal of the Left Block. But we will not align ourselves with certain proposals from other parties, such as the Socialist Party, which aim to repeat the commission of inquiry to BES or which seek to instrumentalise this new commission of inquiry for political purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u142	Don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u143	Not like that! We will not accept and we will also vote against the proposals — which are there! — they aim at instrumentalising the commission of inquiry for purposes which have nothing to do with the New Bank and which are part of populist activism. The PSD has been one of the main parties that has not been able to face the doubts about the New Bank and we will not give up on it as long as they persist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u144	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Banco Espírito Santo was resolved in 2014 and at the time the New Bank was created, which was then sold in 2017. And I would like to make two citations here of what the government told us in 2017. The Government then said: 'unlike the original proposal, no guarantee shall be granted by the State or any other public entity'. And the government also said: « there will be no direct or indirect impact on public accounts or new charges for taxpayers ». Here we are in 2020 being now the Minister who led the sale Governor of the Banco de Portugal — it was awarded with that position — almost 3000 million later, through the Resolution Fund, and two budgets with State injections approved by PS, PCP, Left Block and Green Party. Almost two or three years ago, what I will call the thesis of surprise was created, which could only culminate in a new committee of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, the essential issue that needs to be understood, and I will already go to history from the beginning, is very simple: the damage that is now being made and which is being borne by the taxpayer, indirectly, through the Resolution Fund, because of what is obviously a public guarantee, are losses that come from the past, which have to do with the fact that they have moved to the New Active Bank which should not have passed, or are losses that have to do with the worst management of the New Bank, which will be selling assets to the wreck? I said otherwise: where is the problem? Are the assets that are in the New Bank that do not have the value by which they are accounted for or are they being badly sold? This is the fundamental question to which a committee must answer. We will therefore vote in favour of everything that has to do with the recovery of these losses. Obviously, if some parties want to repeat the BES committee, as it seems to want to arrive, it will not be for us that they will not repeat it, but, let us be frank, we must concentrate on what is now essential. in this sense, first of all, it is important to realize what is still in the BES today to cause damage; secondly, it is important to understand how the separation of the good bank and the bad bank has been made; thirdly, it is important to realize how the sale has been made and how it has reached the value of 3890 million euros, which now surprises everyone but is already determined from that point of view; and fourthly, we have to realize what is being done in the management of the BES and that it is paying, at this time, the Resolution Fund and taxpayers. It's as simple as this! We think the commission has to be focused...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u146	I would like to draw your attention to the time spent, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u147	... and we will vote in favour of all the proposals to focus on the committee, but it also must not be by the CDS and by some obstacle on our part that all parties will not investigate everything they think should be investigated. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u148	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party wants to know the whole story, the history of the resolution and how it was made and the sale and management of the New Bank. We don't want to know only part of the story. I understand the awkwardness of the PSD that you don't want to know a part of the story, because this story, in fact, is not very favorable to you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I also understand the difficulties of Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who was able to quote the current government at the time of the sale of the New Bank but was unable to quote the statements by Maria Luís Albuquerque and Passos Coelho, at the time of the resolution, to such a resolution that the money we were still putting there would still make profit to the Portuguese. Do you remember, Mrs Cecilia Meireles? Do You Recall? I wish I'd mentioned them, too! Let us therefore be clear: we do not want to know only part of history. The PSD is in fact very uncomfortable with a part of the story...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u150	No discomfort!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u151	...and therefore has a selective view on this matter. The Socialist Party assumes everything it is responsible for and it was good that the Social Democratic Party could also have this capacity. That is why it is clear that the Socialist Party is extremely clear that it is committed to knowing everything that has happened and is happening and that the Portuguese also have that right and so they demand it. in this sense, we will vote in favour of all the proposals that are presented, with the exception of those that clearly come out of the scope of what is the dominant concern in Portuguese society at the moment, which is to know what happened and what happens at the New Bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u152	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to take advantage of this second intervention to remind and greet the workers of the New Bank, but also to say that we will vote in favour of all the committee of inquiry proposals. We want to investigate everything! We want to investigate the influence of obscure private interests on political parties. And, Mr. André Ventura, beyond the past, we will take advantage to investigate and better know the business of the leaders of the Arrival and the origin of the financing of your party. Let's do that research now! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Salvador de Andrade, administrator of the former BES real estate, where he is colleague of José Maria Ricciardi, vice-president of the Arrival until a long time ago, boasted for the magazine Vision to finance the Arrival and to mobilize their business contacts to do the same ; Pedro Pessanha, head of the Chega Lisboa, director who advised various business of the former BES Angola, known as BESA, today Economic Bank ; also Francisco Cruz Martins, linked to the scandals of Banif, Vale do Lobo, Panama Papers and business with the Angolan elite, publicly assumes that he participates and mobilizes his contacts for «luxue lunches» of support and funds for the Chega. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Ventura, let us do the research. Let's do the investigation! We save to the Assembly of the Republic a future commission of inquiry and also save to the country the scraps of a party committed to the neck with the most obscure business of the financial and economic elite. Mr Ventura, you are not just a system politician, Mr Ventura, but a politician from the worst that the system has. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u154	We enter item 4 of the agenda, which deals with the discussion of draft resolution No 553 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Spanish Government in order to close the Almaraz nuclear power plant. For the presentation of this legislative initiative, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin this speech with a message of congratulations and gratitude to the young people who are once again speaking in the name of climate justice, in a context still marked by this health crisis, which, as a background, has a clearly environmental crisis. to young people who do not lower their arms in this struggle, the NAP leaves its assurance that it is with them to take the path to climate justice and climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Almaraz power station is located - 100 km from the Portuguese border - and those who consider that this distance will protect us, in the event of a possible flight of radioactive material - already registers 40 years of operation, despite a recommended 30-year useful life, marked, of course, by a path with several incidents. A recent report by the International Atomic Energy Agency alerted for the degradation and ageing of the components of this plant, which obviously reduces the safety margins of this project and increases the occurrence of failures in the safety components of this plant. in this same report, it is said that the risks will be higher under transitional conditions associated with accidental or operational disturbance. It is also clear that the operation of a nuclear power plant beyond its working life increases the risks of a nuclear accident. Despite its 40 years, 10 more than it was supposed, two months ago, the Spanish Government announced the extension of the operation of this nuclear power plant until 2028. The Portuguese Government has not heard a 'ui'! Regarding the risks defined by the International Atomic Energy Agency last July, two incidents occurred in both reactors of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. This is a power plant in a position to see its operation extended for another eight years, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! Let us remember that in 2017, in Slovenia, there was a serious nuclear incident in a plant that uses the same reactors as Almaraz, this a decade after a water leak used for cooling reactors, which is highly radioactive. At the time of this incident, an alert was issued throughout Europe. He was the first alert since the 1986 catastrophe in Chernobyl. It is appropriate to ask whether the Portuguese Government has historical memory problems or if it simply refuses to recognise that, by its location, age and associated problems, the Almaraz nuclear power plant constitutes a risk to the territory and the Portuguese population. Or, then, there will be a case of even recognising, but the subservience to the decisions of the Spanish Government is stronger than the safety of people living in Portugal. The occurrence of a serious accident in one of the two Almaraz reactors, built next to the Tejo, whose river water is used for its cooling system, will affect at least the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre. Can the government guarantee the safety of these populations? We also recall: in 2017, the Government made an agreement with Spain, after withdrawing from a complaint to Brussels, that agreement which allowed the construction of the radioactive waste store without any cross-border environmental impact assessment as required. The construction of this warehouse also enabled the maintenance of this power plant beyond 2020. Who won? Oh, my God! Clearly, the Spanish Government and the companies that exploit the power plant. And Portugal, what did you win? Oh, my God! It was left with more waste at the door and with the risks inherent to an obsolete nuclear power plant. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u156	The voice of Mr Duarte Marques echoes by the plenary, so I would like to draw attention to the following: the phenomenon of masks is curious, because we all speak louder and this is felt in parliamentary work. I was grateful that we all used a slightly lower tone of voice, as we spoke in the Plenary and with the mask. We are now entering the stage of intervention. For the first one, Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When discussing nuclear energy, it is not easy to avoid exaggeration. That is why it is of particular interest to the centre of Almaraz to look objectively at the facts. First: the incidents verified and referred to by the NAP in its draft resolution were this, incidents, because the automatic stop of the reactor, in the face of the rise of power on 23 June, was classified with zero level by the Spanish Nuclear Security Council, whose independence and technical competence are recognized everywhere, and therefore not even considered an incident. Secondly, the resistance test commissioned by Greenpeace, a openly anti-nuclear organization, is 2010, and at that time the Spanish Government has undertaken to replace the safety valves at the end of that decade. Since then, Greenpeace has not reissued any reports. Thirdly, the Spanish Nuclear Safety Council itself gave a positive opinion to the Ministry of the Environment in July for the renewal of licences. These are facts, but we agree with the NAP on one point: the permanent analysis by external and independent entities of the safety level of any nuclear power plant is crucial. The fact that the Almaraz Central has already exceeded its working life in 10 years adds even more importance to this monitoring. Therefore, while fully respecting the sphere of national competence of the Spanish Government, Portugal has an obligation to maintain or establish regular and frequent consultation mechanisms on the exact situation of the Almaraz Central. It was good that the government did not make any secret about these mechanisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u158	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has decided, and has decided well, not to have nuclear power in its territory. Still, we are subject to the risks of nuclear energy, of course, to global risks, because we share this common house that is planet Earth, but also to the risks of proximity. Almaraz nuclear power station is 100 km from the border. It threatens 800 000 people in Portugal, plus a few million on the other side of the border and also uses the waters of the river Tejo, which further aggravates the risk. We do not have nuclear energy because the anti-nuclear movement in Portugal and throughout the planet has been heard. Let us also listen to those who are going to manifest themselves throughout the world today, young people in the climate strike, who tell us that we need to change our lives, we need to have a sustainable planet and a way of life that precisely respects populations and this sustainability. But what we found is that the Almaraz nuclear power plant was built to be closed in 2010. It wasn't. Its operating time for 2020 has been extended. We are now in 2020 and will be extended until 2028. Well, this extension corresponds only to the needs of an entity: the private shareholders of this company. The Spanish State was prepared for closure in 2010. The company was prepared for closure in 2010. But for every day, for every month, for every year that this obsolete power plant continues to operate are more than a few million easy for private shareholders. What we understand is that society and the planet should not be governed according to the private interests of some but, yes, according to the interests and needs of the whole planet. We look at the government and we realize how lazy it is. In 2017, the Portuguese Government put an action in court against the Spanish State because of Almaraz. I wanted to prevent the construction of a new storage pool that would allow the prolongation of the life of the Almaraz Central. Well, in these days, he has already removed this complaint and not only tries not to break the prolongation of the operation of the Almaraz power plant as, on the contrary, greets her. The Minister of the Environment says: « I am glad that the Almaraz power station will be closed in 2028. It will be the first in the Spanish state to be closed». Well, it should have been closed in 2010. What we demand from the Portuguese Government is that it be next to the populations in Portugal and throughout the planet, which require the end of nuclear energy. It is that when a nuclear power station is shut down, that is not the end of history. We have continued for hundreds of years to have to ensure the sustainability of that nuclear power plant, to have to ensure the treatment and storage of those nuclear waste. That is why we understand that the price of nuclear energy is too high. We look at Fukushima in a technologically developed country, a modern power station and a single accident. Tens, hundreds of billions of euros cost. This is the cost of nuclear energy, in addition, obviously, of cost in human lives and the sustainability of the environment. We reject this fatalism that the Almaraz central has to be open until 2028, putting everyone at risk. We refuse that a country like Portugal, which is not prepared to defend itself from nuclear accidents, as no one can be, continues to say that everything is okay until everything is wrong. We can't say that. Almaraz's power station has to close. He was supposed to have closed in 2010. You have to close today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u160	Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We naturally welcome the relevance of this debate and all those who fight for the defense of the planet, of resources and of the environment. As you know, the issue of the Almaraz Central is not just a matter of relations between States, nor is it just a matter of fulfilling the obligations arising from international agreements and treaties. That is part of the matter. When we talk about the current situation of the Almaraz Central, we talk about an imminent danger to the populations on the side of the border, beyond what the accident would mean to the Spanish people. In 2010 the Portuguese Army made a simulation based on the scenario of a serious accident, with the explosion of a reactor, and concluded that it would affect about 800,000 Portuguese. In 12 hours, it would reach the radioactive cloud, affecting particularly intensely the municipalities of Idanha-a-Nova, Castelo Branco and Penamacor. A problem in the Almaraz nuclear power plant does not affect Portugal only through the atmosphere, because it is only a hundred kilometers away from Portugal. Note that this plant uses Tejo river water for cooling. That is, it can be fatal for one of the most important Portuguese rivers. The question is that an accident scenario is becoming more likely over time. Almaraz's nuclear power plant is over 40 years old. It is obsolete and should have been closed in 2010. Then its activity was extended until 2020 and now the Spanish Nuclear Security Council authorised its operation until 2028. And no decommissioning procedure is known, even though they are supposed to be only eight years old. There have been several accidents, even in June this year. The Portuguese State cannot be rested, nor can it admit to remaining successively on the side of the issue, as was when the first step was taken to this extension of operation, with the construction of such a warehouse in 2017. The CFP has, to this end, confronted the Government successively and we conclude that no valid guarantees are being given. When asked for the documents provided to the Portuguese Government by the Spanish State, what was given to us was the document with the Spanish national energy and climate plan and an embassy office giving notice of the opinion on the central, all very limited and available information in the social communication, moreover. It is not admitted that this is the position of the Portuguese Government on this issue of sensitivity and with cross-border impacts of this dimension. It must be more demanding, even in respect for good relations between States. There must be an evaluation, a follow-up, an exchange of information, but not only. Portugal must position itself in accordance with the Portuguese interest and cannot simply wait for it to decide to close that which is the producer of a large quantity of all the energy consumed in Spain. He cannot do so, especially when the safety of his people is at stake. Contrasting with the tranquility with which the Ministry of the Environment has answered the various questions asked by the PCP, for the populations there can be no tranquility without information, without monitoring the radioactivity parameters and without a radiological emergency planning that gives an effective and efficient response to any problem that comes to pass. That is why the CFP again associates itself with the numerous voices that urge the Portuguese Government to take advantage of national interests, to ensure the safety and health of populations, the quality and environmental values, to bring about the precautionary principle and to intercede for the closure of a central government that should not be functioning long ago. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u162	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Greens greet all those who, in the circumstances we live today, continue to beat themselves by defending ecosystems, as we can see throughout our country. The Greens Ecological Party has for many years called for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, not only for the challenge of nuclear power production, but also for this plant not to present safety conditions, which increases the risk of accidents resulting from its work. over the years, The Greens have developed several initiatives against the operation of this plant, such as the delivery of 5000 postcards to the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government, signed by the populations living in the districts near Almaraz bathed by the Tejo, also participating in several joint actions with environmentalists carried out in Portugal and Spain. at the parliamentary level, we have called on the reason for the evidence of the need for the closure of the nuclear power plant, as demonstrated by the multiple questions and demands we address to successive governments, from 1993 to today. Today, unfortunately, we do not welcome the closure of an obsolete power plant, but we discuss the extension of the operating licence of this nuclear power plant until October 2028. It is therefore necessary to allow the extension of the operation of reactors which started operating in 1981 and 1983 respectively. In addition to all this, we are concerned that Portugal is not at least prepared to deal with a serious accident, which, in turn, would certainly bring serious immediate impacts to the entire border area, especially to the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre. In 2016, we warned that the creation of individualized temporary storage in Almaraz, which caused a complaint from the Portuguese State to the European Commission, had been a warning of the continuity of the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond June 2020, the date of its closure. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The term of service of the Almaraz nuclear power plant has long passed, having expired in 2010, and although incidents occur regularly, and in some cases radioactivity levels higher than permitted have been recorded, the intention now arises to extend its operation to 2028, extending almost twice the operating period stipulated in the original licence. For the Greens, the passive attitude of the Portuguese Government was clear last May, when the Prime Minister, questioned by Greens Member José Luís Ferreira about the difficulties he intended to develop with the Spanish Government, did not express any concern about the situation, nor any possible intention of intervention to proceed with the closure of this central.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u164	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u165	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. In the event of accidents of greater gravity, Portugal may be affected either by water contamination, since the centre uses the waters of the river Tejo to cool its reactors, or by atmospheric contamination, due to the great geographical proximity. That is why the Greens have always fought, and today they renew their commitment to pursue this struggle by the final closure of this nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u166	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that this issue, as has just been mentioned in the previous speech, is not at all new, is an old matter for all of us and is an old matter for this Parliament. I would also like to tell the NAP that perhaps a word has been missing which is added to the various interventions we have heard here: the word « Tejo ». In addition to the risks that we all face, we must obviously take into account the protection of the one who is our largest river and one of the great international rivers of Europe, with all that it means. Being clear on this matter: what is it at stake? The Almaraz plant should normally have been closed in 2010, as has been said here, and that is absolutely true. What happened? It happened that not only was it not closed as its lifetime and its licenses were extended. We have no problem with the matter which the NAP brings to us and we have no doubt about the position we have to adopt. Our doubt is — and with it we are, of course, confronted with the NAP as a proposing party — with the effectiveness of the deliberations that this Parliament will take on this matter. Surely the PAN and the honourable Member who, on his behalf, used the word do not ignore that, as has been said here, we have adopted resolutions since the 1990s : we have adopted resolutions in 2016 ; we unanimously adopted a resolution proposed by my party, the CDS in 2017 ; we have adopted resolutions submitted by the Greens, the CFP, the PSD ; we have adopted resolutions by all parties on this matter. What happened so far? Look, Mrs. Member, the Minister is the same : Matos Fernandes. What did he do with the Spaniards? As much as you are, zero! What did the Spaniards call you? Less than zero! What I am telling you, Madam Member, is that perhaps there is a problem of double ineffectiveness here: first inefficiencies, the parties that have the proximity that you have and that the parties of the original management have with the Government cannot get the Portuguese Government to listen to them in this matter; second inefficiencies, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, cannot allow his colleague Pedro Sánchez and the comrade of the Podemos, the endless Churches, to listen to him in this matter. This seems to be the problem. The CDS will vote in favour of the draft resolution submitted by the NAP, we have no problem, but will the government do something? Honestly, I don't believe it! The government has had more than enough time to do something and so far it has done nothing. Perhaps, the best thing was for you to pressure the Portuguese Government, to speak in the framework of the friendship relations they have, to see if the Portuguese Government really is willing to speak to the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u168	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u169	With regard to the rest, we have no problem, we have no nuclear energy, and, in our view, we do not want to have it, but we want to ensure security with regard to the threat that the longer it takes, the more time it will be for Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u170	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u171	Mr President, it is clear that this case of the Almaraz nuclear power plant shows, above all, the ineffectiveness of the Portuguese State. When the Chamber of Portalegre asked to close the power station, what happened was that Spain has renewed, a month ago, the operating licence, which shows the inefficiencies we have in this struggle. I didn't want to miss the end of the minute I have without answering the Left Block, since I couldn't do it before. I'll tell you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if I'm the worst system in the system, but I know that, because of the worst system in the system, I'm already in front of you in the polls. I know something else: I know it may be the worst system has, but I never sell social security houses for values above millions, when bought for €340 000, and I know that no candidate from the Arrival will sit here having been arrested for growing drugs. That's what I've never done! And that is the worst policy has in Portugal. Also I have never had rural tourism accommodations and never attacked those who had them, and real estate speculation, that is, it is typical of the « Left Block » brand, which could well be called « Robles party» for its best identification. When they look back at it to say it's a worst party the system has...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u172	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. When they do, always remember that it is a party that will soon or later cross your place in Portuguese politics and will do so very clearly. [[Christos from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u174	For an intervention, Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thought we were here to discuss the problems of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and not to campaign. I must say that it is known the energy model that the Socialist Party defends for the country and that it deepens every time it is in government. We want an ever-increasing energy model supported by renewable energy, so the use of water, wind and sun resources is becoming increasingly important throughout the national energy tank. This is the energy policy of the Socialist Party. Mr Telmo Correia, I do not know whether you have noticed that both the CDS and the PSD make a loud voice about these issues when they are in opposition, but when they are in the government and national interests need to be defended before Europe or other countries, they no longer have a loud voice and fine taste.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u176	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u177	in this perspective, we well know which government was able to sign a bilateral protocol with Spain for the operation and application of environmental assessments and projects with cross-border effects—it was a Government of the Socialist Party. We also know that there was an Environment Minister who intervened so that any decision that Spain could come to take on the Almaraz nuclear power plant would have to be made only after a cross-border environmental impact study, which Spain is not even required to do — was Minister Matos Fernandes, Minister of a Government of the Socialist Party. We also know that there was a Portuguese minister who intervened the European Union when it was necessary to suspend the work that was being done on the landfill of nuclear waste in Almaraz. This Minister has a name, Matos Fernandes, and is a Minister of the Government of the Socialist Party. We are therefore clear about the loud voice on these matters. We are now, indeed, going to the sweetest voice of the promoters of this initiative. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, you well know that your proposal for a recommendation, which we do not oppose, does not introduce any new information on the issue at stake. It was important, indeed, that, as the Socialist Party has already said, through its Parliamentary Group, here and in Europe, in terms of European and international legislation, there were conditions not for optional dialogues between countries with such problems, with cross-border impacts, but for this legislation to be mandatory and to impose the creation of commissions between countries, between governments, with real powers, with formal powers and with representatives of the various countries, which in the case of Almaraz would involve a committee with effective powers, with Spanish representatives and Portuguese representatives. We have already said this here in Parliament, in committee, at the hearings with the Minister for the Environment, and we have said that in the European Union too. Therefore, the question that arises with regard to your recommendation, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, is the following: in this particular the need to create a legal and international instrument that obliges the creation of committees with representatives of the various countries to deal with these matters with cross-border impact, is the NAP or is it not with the Socialist Party, is it or is it not with the defence of national interest? Another question: if by any chance the NAP still had a Member representing it in the European Parliament, would that Member be or would he not be with the Socialist Party and the national interest in this matter? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u178	Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2010, when the closure of Almaraz was scheduled, who was in the government was the PS ; in 2020, when the closure of Almaraz is scheduled, who is in the government is the PS. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u180	At the last Iberian convention, was Almaraz discussed? No, Almaraz didn't argue. Why? Because the Portuguese Government has failed to put the issue on the agenda of the discussions of this convention. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u181	Almaraz is an old nuclear power plant—with this we all agree. At more than 40 years of age, she should have been disabled by now and she wasn't. Almaraz is a question of national security and, in fact, involves a high risk for Portuguese and Spanish, even more so for Portuguese, since the central is located only 100 km from the Portuguese border and uses the Tejo river water for cooling its reactors, this water is then returned to the Tejo and comes to the Atlantic here in Lisbon. For several years now, Portugal has seen Almaraz as a danger and it is seen that the Kingdom of Spain does not fill it and does not even care about this closure. Let us see, for example, what the Portuguese Government did about the creation of the individual temporary warehouse, a nuclear waste warehouse, which indicated that the Almaraz nuclear power plant could continue to operate beyond what was planned. What was done? Nothing! Well, this warehouse has been installed, despite all the concerns raised to date, both by Portuguese and by Spanish, and the extension of the operation of the nuclear power plant beyond 2020 has also happened — now will be in 2028. Last June, and with a week of intervals, the Almaraz nuclear power plant recorded two incidents in both reactors, in areas that had not even been signaled as being in danger. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about Spain's largest nuclear power station. According to the Portuguese Army source, a nuclear accident could affect 800,000 Portuguese, that is, one tenth of the Portuguese population, and, given the proximity to the Spanish border, would be the municipalities of Idanha, Castelo Branco and Penamacor, where more than 45,000 people live, the most affected. Can the government then ensure that it has done everything it should and could to limit this danger of life for our people as much as possible? In June this year, the PSD questioned the European Commission as to whether it was aware of any efforts by the Portuguese Government to speed up the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz and whether there were security guarantees if the power plant remained in operation. Well, the answer that came, already this month of September, didn't leave us any more at ease. Nevertheless, the Portuguese Government has shown a submissive passivity that does not pride anyone. Its convivence has been recognised by many, notably by Luís Pereira, the President of the Authority of Vila Velha de Rhodão, who claims to be surprising, and I quote "the lack of an energetic reaction of the Portuguese authorities in the process of renewing the nuclear power plant licences". Even Spanish companies, or Spanish entities, such as the Iberian Energy Observatory, have expressed more concern than the Portuguese Government, claiming that as time passes, older equipment and higher is the risk of a serious accident. Therefore, Antonio Eloy, coordinator of the Observatory, believes that the Portuguese Government should take a firmer attitude on the real situation of Almaraz and press on the Spanish Government to speed up the closure of these centres. It is not clear, therefore, why the Minister for the Environment remains so calm, agreeing and accommodating to this condition, ensuring that it is and that it will be all right. on the part of those who were expected to worry and energy, there is such a passive attitude that the neglecter swirls. It is enough to recall what we all saw in the committee when, after having been questioned about the accidents of June, the Minister devalued the case, stating that there had been normal situations and that there had actually been no incidents or accidents in Almaraz. Almaraz has two reactors and is Spain's largest central with installed capacity. It has been operating since 1981 in a seismic risk zone only 100 km from Portugal. In 2016, a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic recommended that the Government intervene with the Spanish Government to proceed with its closure, but this resolution, which is four years old, has not yet been fulfilled. Is it now? Let us hope that this resolution will be fulfilled—that is the obligation of any government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u182	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u183	The Portuguese population, especially that of Castelo Branco, Portalegre and Santarém, has the right to have this respect by Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u184	To exhaust the time still available, which is 21 seconds, Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u185	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura has nothing to say about Almaraz, but we realize his nervousness, because he has a radioactive party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u187	Mr President, do not come here to shed your tears, because this does not erase the dangerous and doubtful links of the leaders and the financiers of the Arrival. Mr President, in this House it is not only the system, it is also the worst that the system has! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u189	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u190	Mr President, for the sake of honor, by the words of Mr Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u191	Mr President, let us leave your intervention for the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u192	Mr. President, then only the Left Block can you defend the honour? Can't I? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u193	Mr. Deputies, the Left Block did not defend any honour, made an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u194	Mr President, I think in accordance with Rule 84. the Rules of Procedure, I have the right to defend honour after the words of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u195	Mr President, it is true that you have, but I asked you if you didn't mind if you were to stay at the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u196	No problem, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira, you have the floor, available for 25 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u198	Mr President, Mrs Cláudia André, you didn't spend 5 minutes and you gave me another reason when I said that the PSD is only firm when you are in opposition. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u199	Now, with regard to the Socialist Party, this is not the first time we have expressed concern about the possibility of Spain extending the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond what is planned, especially after the favourable opinion already issued by the competent Spanish nuclear authority. We have said it more than once here and repeat it today: the Almaraz nuclear power plant, being an exclusive energy asset from Spain, is not an exclusive problem of Spain, because its proximity to Portugal, the age of its facilities and the events that have been taking place concern not only the Spanish people, but also the autoarchs, the rulers and the populations of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u200	To close this debate, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Liberal Initiative, I leave three facts to him: firstly, a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents is not known in Portugal; secondly, the radioactivity monitoring network in Portugal presents failures; and thirdly, the report of the emergency exercise carried out by APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency) and by Civil Protection in 2016. Mr. Member of the CDS Telmo Correia, you must have been certainly unaware of the references of the NAP to the river Tejo. Obviously, being the largest river in the Iberian Peninsula and natural heritage, to be affected by a nuclear disaster, the contamination that can be caused to it, in addition to the destruction of ecosystems, will affect all geographical areas where it runs. In addition, the proposal for a recommendation adopted in the previous Parliament serves the previous Parliament and, therefore, today, we will see which parties in the XIV Legislation maintain their position. With regard to the inertia or insufficient action of the Government, the NAP did not, in any case, stop and lodge two complaints within the United Nations: one for failure to comply with the Espoo Convention, which requires a cross-border environmental impact assessment, because it seems to us to be clear what is at stake here; another for failure to comply with the Aarhus Convention, which obliges public consultation and participation in situations that may have a significant impact on the population. So, responding to Mr Fernando Paulo of the Socialist Party, we hope that the PS will take the necessary steps to create effective committees, because the NAP does not resign itself from its responsibilities and to do its part, both nationally and at European level.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u202	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u203	Obviously, the NAP will be on the side of the defense of populations and the protection of our natural heritage and ecosystems. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u204	At the end of the debate on this point, we must then return to the incident raised. Thus, for the purpose of defending honor, Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u205	I know it'll be hard for you to hear, but you'll have to listen! [[BE's laughs.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after the words of Mr Peralta, I was surprised because we always have in Parliament this superior "left caviar" morality, which comes here and says that others are radioactive, that others are very dangerous, that others are the worst that the system has. Only that the Left Block has forgotten one thing: it now has an answer, and it has an answer not from here two, three or four hours, but now. I do not accept that one party that says another has dangerous links has a real estate agent inside the party buying houses for social security and selling them for millions. I do not accept that a party that is always pointing the finger at the Arrival gives false residents of Members to receive subsidies that are from the State and that are money from all of us. They're here to talk about crimes — crimes! — when you have a candidate arrested for drug trafficking, which could only be to laugh in a least developed country. [[BE's protests.]] Mr. Nelson Peralta... [[BE's protests.]] I know you're nervous, but you have to listen! Mr. Nelson Peralta, I recorded your last sentence: « The arrival is a radioactive party. » Have no doubt, sir! It is so radioactive, so radioactive, that one day it will end up in Portugal with those who want to destroy democracy. He says that we are radioactive, however, if you look at our lists, you can see a lot, but you will never be convicted of terrorism and armed assaults on our lists of Members. That'll never see! Already in the Left Block, you're looking to see if all the lists in the whole country are filled in. We don't accept that! And we don't accept... [[BE's protests.]] Listen to me! We do not accept lessons of morals from anyone, much less from the Block of Left, which has more glass roofs than any other party in democracy in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u206	Mr. Nelson Peralta, you have the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u207	Mr President, I note that Mr. André Ventura has decided to repeat what he has already said. You are used, at the party congress, to always take the same to the vote until you win — do it three times!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u208	But it's not like this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u209	The radioactive game! This is not the case in democracy. But I notice that Mr. André Ventura defended the honour without saying anything about the following : Salvador Posser de Andrade, supporter of the Chega, administrator of the former estate of BES ; Pedro Pessanha, a strong man of the Arrival in Lisbon, was director and business advisor of BES Angola, today BES Economica; Francisco Sá Nogueira, former Vice-President of the former holding of the Espírito Santo Group ; Francisco Cruz Martins, linked to scandals of Banif, Vale do Lobo, Panama Papers and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u210	Radioactive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u211	On this, André Ventura tells us nothing, because he considers that this is not an attack on the honor of arriving. But this is the essence of it! That's enough, it's the worst thing in the system! The arrival presents itself here with a new speech, wanting to discuss which organ we will mutilate to this or that person, for the very simple reason of Mr André Ventura coming from the PSD and having missed the Government of the austerity of the Rabbit Pass. [[CH protests.]] But you know what? The right does not return to the power to speak of economy, the right does not return to the power to speak of the lives of workers and of those who work in Portugal! The honourable Member has no solution for all these people who work, who make an effort in their lives and therefore believe that the clothing of this new policy will bring the right to power. He's wrong! Portugal does not let itself be deceived, recognises itself the worst of the system, which is closely linked to the scandals of BES, to a large financial hole in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u212	And you're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u213	You think this is not an attack on your honor. Well, that's the essence of it! The arrival is closely linked to the financial scandals of the country and has nothing to say to the workers of this country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u214	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u215	I will finish, Mr. President. The Left Block gives this answer to those who work and to those who want a decent country to live. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now turning to the fifth item on the agenda, on which is the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — A rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication and 289 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour. For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u217	Mr President, if I may, the schedule is for the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u218	I'm sorry, Your Honor. You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Child labour is still a reality today and does not exist only in conflict areas or in the poorest countries and regions of the world. The lack of respect for the rights of children also occurs in the richest and most developed countries, including in the European Union, where the risk rate of child poverty has remained very high. All children have the right to protection, dignity, physical integrity, education, health and housing that enable them to grow in a favorable environment, with quality of life, and to feel happy and realized, depending on the state, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, to guarantee these conditions. Several were the international instruments and commitments that established the rights, protection and well-being of children, such as the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child adopted by the United Nations in 1959, where it is stated that “Humanity owes the child the best he has to give”, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Portugal in 1990, and under this Convention an obligation of States to comply with the rights of children. According to the International Labour Organization ( ILO ), there are currently 152 million minors who are victims of child labour worldwide and, of these, almost half do dangerous jobs, which endanger their health and safety. The eradication of child labour by 2025 was set as one of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. In Portugal, in the 1980s of the 20th century, an effort was made to sensitize the Portuguese population to oppose the reality of child labour and require greater protection and assurance of the well-being and quality of life of children. the state imposed a commitment for its eradication from the second half of the 90s, and important measures were taken to eliminate this scourge. In 1998 a national survey was conducted with families with children of school age, which allowed to identify the size of child labour, and it was possible to define the strategy to combat the phenomenon. In 2001, a new study entitled Child Labour in Portugal 2001 showed that almost 49 000 children from 6 to 15 years of age were engaged in economic activities in Portugal, whether paid or not, but that more than half of them did not do so regularly, and also showed an increase of 2000 cases in 1998. Since then, the phenomenon has not been studied in Portugal. It's been almost 20 years. Combating child labour is to ensure working conditions and income to families, since poverty and crisis situations boost this scourge, because families may be forced to use this practice and to count on the work of children to meet basic needs and survive. Abolition of child labour requires cross-cutting and integrated policies, at the level of education, social protection, health and work, which can improve the situation of families, and it is essential to combat poverty, with particular emphasis on child poverty, through guaranteeing work with rights for adults and it is also important to ensure that the entities and services involved in combating child labour are equipped with all the conditions necessary to fully carry out their mission. Despite Portugal's positive development in combating child labour, there are still cases in the country, which need to be known to ensure its elimination, by improving the living conditions of families and implementing effective measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u220	I call your attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u221	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The Greens therefore propose that a study be carried out to enable structured and planned intervention to guarantee the rights of children, requiring that the State comply with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u222	Now, yes, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :Being a child must mean being able to grow up free to play and learn to be. To play learns, to play builds identity. Children must be children, regardless of the geopolitical, social, cultural, economic or other conditions, for which they have no responsibility and cannot be penalized. In fact, as we have recently made clear, even with regard to the DGS standard ( Directorate-General of Health ) concerning children in situations of residential care—the norm which ended, fortunately, by being altered, due to the pressure that has been made to the effect—there can be no children of first or second children. And the same is true of all your rights. Children must have the right to be children. As such, child labour is an unacceptable violation of children's rights. We know that it conditions the experience of childhood, the potential and dignity of children, affecting their development, often even separating them from families and their emotional references and exposing them to high psychosocial risks. Child labour undermines the education, health and safety of children and contributes to the loss of childhood, compromising their future. But in the end, those who lose, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's your country. Recognizing the efforts that have been made to reduce child labour and the fundamental role that have been played by child protection organizations, we must not forget that child labour has not ended and that there are today multiple ways in which it gains ground: either by the way of children and young people leaving early school; whether by the hidden school dropout; whether by the young NEET(not in education, employment, training); whether by traffic; whether by families with severe economic difficulties, now aggravated in this context, or even by the pursuit of paid activities, which, despite being socially accepted, are also child labour, insofar as they require a longer period of activity, lack of time for rest and even for food—in short, lack of time to grow up with time. Several are the indicators that concern us and cannot remain in the role. Although without the dramatic expression of other regions of the globe, child labour in Portugal continues — and must continue — to demand our attention. Any violation of the rights of any child shall be immediately and vehemently unacceptable. We recall that the last national surveys on child labour dates back to 1988 and 2001, and at that time the situation of exploitation and child labour in the footwear, textiles, trade, civil construction, agriculture and other non-economic activities was established. in this period of time, child labour had grown 0, 2 % without further investigations into this situation in Portugal to date. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that reality is not known by "achometer" but by evidence. Only knowing the current situation, its size and its contours can we define and implement the best measures to prevent and eradicate child labour in Portugal. You can't sweep reality under the carpet. You can not fail to act in this matter, much less when it comes to children. All children deserve our look. So, in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the NAP brings to this House a recommendation for the Government to undertake the preparation of a current national study on child labour in Portugal, naturally accompanying the ENP project with the same intention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u224	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are realities so abject, so far from respect for human rights that in Portugal we consider fundamental, that some would prefer to close their eyes and imagine that they only exist in distant countries, with cultures other than ours, because in Portugal of the 21st century, that would never be possible. One of these realities is that of child labour, which unfortunately still exists in our country. We do not deny that Portugal has gone a long way to protect the rights of children, their healthy development and the guarantee that all children can actually live their childhood. But it must be recognized that this path is far from over. Child labour today takes different forms than it did in the last century. For example, there are children working too much in new industries, such as fashion or entertainment, but there are still children working in agriculture, industry or restoration. UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund ) and the International Labour Organization recently warned about the possibility of increasing child labour in the world due to the pandemic crisis. In Portugal, the President of the National Confederation of Action on Child Labour (CNASTI ) recently stated that he has received many complaints in recent months. There have been no official studies on child labour in Portugal since 2001. We must therefore urgently update or carry out new studies, as proposed by the NAP, so that we can know the problems and define the solutions. But it really has to be fast, because childhood is passing and is not waiting for studies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u226	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u227	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to these two proposals, spent about 20 years on the last study carried out in Portugal on the concrete situation of our country with regard to child labour, the PSD believes that it is really time to get to know the reality of child labour in Portugal and will therefore follow the proposals that we believe are relevant. Having said this, it seems to me that this is a debate on which there is little debate to discuss — let me almost contradict myself, because we all believe that safeguarding children's rights is fundamental, as well as eradicating child labour. We have had complaints from CNASTI, who is aware of some child labour situations, particularly in the restoration, and also new forms of exploitation of child labour, and of course we see this with concern. For the PSD, the existence of a single case of child labour in Portugal is reason for us to act in this area ; all the more so, at the moment, there is a voice of warning, which reaches us, even from the United Nations, that states that we fear that for the first time in 20 years we are witnessing an increase in child labour, due to the crisis that currently exists worldwide. As Portugal is a highly permeable country to the reality that exists in the rest of the world, we are not immune to this new reality and to this concern of international organizations regarding the situation of child labour in the world and Portugal as well. It therefore seems equally relevant to us that this new reality should be taken into account, as well as the effects of the pandemic itself on the development of the situation of child labour in Portugal. Of course, we all know that since the sad images that we saw in the 1980s and 1990s of children sewing shoes in the Ave Valley and of so many other cases of oestensive child exploitation that developed at home—where the door was closed so that the people who made the orders did not see this child labour and their hands in wound, by the needles that sewed the shoes—we went a long way. We must recognise this path, and Portugal has made a long process of evolution and also of acting within the framework of children's rights. But since we are discussing child labour today, for the PSD, the rights of children must be seen in a global way. We cannot only address one aspect, it is also urgent that we take into account the opportunities and impacts of child labour cases, particularly in the school course, in the exclusion, in the life project of our children, because all this has to be seen in a global way. We also see with great concern — and we use this moment of debate to draw attention to this — the situation that has happened with regard to our most vulnerable children, particularly in the pandemic period. It is a situation for which, in fact, the PSD has repeatedly drawn attention, in particular to the fact that the CPCJ (Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth) are not acting at present, that social security does not have its agents working at present, that the school does not have students on a daily basis, knowing that the school was the main reporting and drawing attention to situations of violation of children's rights. The PSD is highly concerned about all these situations and has, in fact, come to manifest it in questions, in demands, even in interventions in this House, so that our children are not unprotected in their greatest scope, in their rights as a whole, because children are the best in the world, the poet said. Let me end with a quote from the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which we all have to have as a fundamental premise: « Humanity owes the child the best that he has to give». All of us, by doing this study and by acting also in the child and in the future as a whole, will be doing at least what we can to give them our best. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u229	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 12 June, the date on which the World Day against Child Labour was celebrated, was signalled by organizations such as ILO and UNICEF, the current risk of millions of children worldwide being pushed into child labour situations due to the current health situation. With regard to this discussion, it should be borne in mind that since 2000 some 94 million children have no longer been in a child labour situation, an evolution that can be threatened due to the worsening economic and social situation. It should also be noted that the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, in the annual activity assessment report of CPCJs for the year 2019, indicates 40 situations identified as child exploitation, of which 20 ( 50 %) are child labour exploitation, more than 4 in 2018. CNASTI, National Confederation of Action on Child Labour, has pointed out concerns about child labour situations in our country, even if it is headlong, having recently referred to the risk of increasing these situations in view of the current context. Portugal has made a path that is to mark and value in the fight against child labour, a path that cannot be called into question and which cannot have any setbacks. The deepening of social inequalities, the situations of poverty that persist and intensify, the alerts of risk of backwardness in combating child labour worldwide, the reality mirrored in numbers and the hidden reality, which is not translated into any document, require constant intervention to eliminate all child labour situations, but also to combat and eradicate all forms of exploitation and violence against children. Combating child labour is inseparable from combating poverty and social exclusion, which are inseparable from political options that guarantee decent working and living conditions for families, from the very outset the effective fulfilment of civil, social, economic and cultural rights by the State. Child poverty, closely linked to the poverty of families, has specific characteristics as to its characterization and its material contours, expressing itself in dimensions and indicators that do not relate to other age layers, such as situations of dropout or failure in school or the prevalence of certain types of vulnerabilities. It is this poverty that pushes children to these situations. The poverty of children has individual and generational effects and implications that are more painful and continuous than in other ages. One of the traits that best characterizes child poverty is, above all, the association between lack of resources, which defines poverty, and dependence, which characterizes childhood. The fight against child labour is inseparable from the fight against unemployment, precariousness, low wages and therefore inseparable from the guarantee of employment with rights, the value of wages and a fair distribution of wealth. It is also inseparable from public school, free of charge, quality and inclusive, which responds to the needs and characteristics of these children, having the school having more human, material and financial means to respond to these realities. It is still inseparable from universal, free and quality access to public services, including health and social security, access to social protection. Our Constitution safeguards the right of children « to the protection of society and the State, with a view to their full development, especially against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression », also prohibiting the work of minors. All children are entitled to special protection and care, health, education, social protection, housing, adequate food, clothing, physical integrity, respect for their own identity. They have the right to grow in harmony, to have their integral development, to grow and to be happy. And this reality is only realized with policies and policy options that guarantee dignity in the lives of workers and their families. The CFP has proposed the establishment of a national committee on the rights of children and young people, with the aim of studying, monitoring, analyzing the realities of children in our country, understanding that these competences should not be in the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. We will follow the initiatives in question, understanding that it is important to have a rigorous and in-depth study on the reality of child labour in our country, without abdicating from the one who has to be a fundamental combat, with cross-versal and effective measures that feel in the lives of children every day...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u232	...and not only at certain times or linked to words on certain occasions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u233	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue here today by the Greens is indeed very relevant. As has already been said, the second half of the last century was positively marked by very large developments in the consecration and recognition of children's rights. It was a process developed largely by the United Nations, which had consecration and reception in the most developed countries. It is important to know this, because sometimes we look at the most developed countries as those that exploit the most and which less enshrine the rights of workers, for example. It is also important to remember that, for example, in relation to children's rights, it was precisely in the most developed countries that these rights were recognized earlier, that early child labour was combated, and it is unfortunate that in Portugal we have been at the forefront of this eradication with regard to the most developed countries. As has already been said, during the 1980s, mainly, and still during part of the 1990s, child labour was still a reality, unfortunately. It was no longer obvious, because it was hidden, but it was still very significant in our country. Because of the fact that today it is not quantitatively enough, we cannot, in any way — and that is why these initiatives are interesting and important — leave the reality of child labour out of the radar. It is true that there has been a great evolution and that there is no comparison between what happened in the 1980s and what exists today. However, by accepting all the principles which, as I said, were enshrined in the second half of the last century, we cannot fail to regularly make an assessment of this situation, to intervene in child labour centres that exist, to combat this child labour. Therefore, from the point of view of the CDS, the initiatives, both the ENP and the NAP, are relevant and we shall vote-CL- them favourably.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u236	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : All children are entitled to children. They also have the right to education, housing, health, dignity, security, care, but this right to childhood is a basic condition of children's human rights. Child labour, as has already been said, is an offence and a violation of this basic right. For decades and decades, in the world, but also in Portugal, the work of children was normal. Their labor force was exploited, their bodies were put at the service of industry or other activities and their work was also expropriated by the State, as happened in begging homes during fascism. Child labour, however, and unfortunately, is not just a reality of the past or a phenomenon that we have been able to eradicate definitively. There are 152 million minors doing child labour around the world—that is what the International Labour Organization says—many of them work dangerous to their health and safety. As has already been pointed out in the 1980s, Portugal created a strategy for combating and eradicating child labour, which was a remarkable example of the joint mobilization of public bodies of education, social security and the trade union movement. This mobilization has made it possible to combat this phenomenon decisively and virtually, as we understand it, to eliminate it. But it is true that this fight is not over yet. The last portrait we have of the phenomenon of child labour is about 20 years old and at the time it was aimed at the existence of 49 000 children, between 6 and 15 years old, who were engaged in economic activities in agriculture, industry, services, restoration, and also in audiovisual and show areas or in the fashion industry. of these 49 000 children, said the study of about 20 years ago, 14 000 worked in dangerous activities. And the most serious, perhaps, of the latest data available is that, at the time, there was a trend towards an increase in this reality. For this reason, the proposals presented today by the ENP and the NAP are absolutely relevant, so that we can have a study, a rigorous and current diagnosis of the problem of child labour, which, of course, also has a relationship with the phenomenon of poverty, but not only. Knowing reality is the first step to be able to combat child labour and, as we have seen, unfortunately, there are barbaries from the past that threaten to return to our present. For this reason, the Left Block fully monitors the recommendations to deepen all dimensions and all measures capable of fully guaranteeing the rights of children and also to promote a knowledge and fight against child labour that is decided upon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u238	Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the parties who have brought these draft resolutions to debate, which aim at a study with national scope on child labour. According to these initiatives, the last study carried out throughout the national territory dates from 2001. It is true that the recent history of combating child labour in Portugal was marked, from the second half of the 1990s, by the creation of a Plan to Eliminate Child Labour Exploration, pointing out a political commitment to an effective fight against the exploitation of child labour in the 1980s. Indeed, in Portugal in the 1980s and 1990s there was an alarming situation of child labour, but this was successfully combated. This success was achieved through the action developed by the Plan for the Elimination of Child Labour Exploration, recognized as unique in the international context, which allowed effective and dynamic cooperation and partnership with different actors, public and private, contributing to the fight against the exploitation of child labour and, on the other hand, to implement a strategy for the social inclusion of disadvantaged young people and children. Indeed, at the national level, economic, social and cultural changes made it possible to bet on education and, at the same time, to leave children out of the labour market in the sectors of agriculture, trade, industry and construction, with the exception of some artistic child labour. Thus, in the field of education, several measures have been developed over the years to combat school dropout, including the increase in compulsory education, as well as other measures aimed at attracting for education and training courses, such as flexible curriculum management, classes with alternative curricula, intervention educational territories and vocational education and training courses. At the legislative level, significant progress has been made to strengthen the protection granted to minors. For example, the incorporation of the legal regime of the participation of minors in performances and other activities in the regulation of the Labour Code, which entered into force in 2004, constituted an important framework, introducing rules for the exercise of this type of activity, which could be harmful if it was not well framed and which was without regulation. I also highlight parallel measures for the eradication of poverty and social exclusion, such as the adoption of social income for inclusion and the updating of the national minimum wage. Over the years, the Plan for the Elimination of Child Labour Exploration continued the desire and strengthened the preventive component of combating the exploitation of child labour, with a continuing work of intervention in the legislative level and a significant strengthening of inspection actions. This work ended in 2008, since it was considered that the objective to which it was proposed had been met, that of the eradication of child labour, resulting in that today, the phenomenon of exploitation of child labour is virtually eradicated, according to data from the Working Conditions Authority. Communication is also maintained to the Child and Youth Protection Committees at risk of identified child labour situations and participation in the Public Prosecutor's Office with methodologies used to expand the effect of the inspection action on the level of identification of irregular situations. In the context of the pandemic caused by COVID-19, the Working Conditions Authority has also been attentive to possible signs of work performance in violation of minimum admission requirements, counting for the purpose with the collaboration of social, institutional and civil society partners. We can therefore say that today the results of the fight against child labour are satisfactory, even considering that it is virtually eradicated in Portugal and that possible situations, where they exist, will be residual, therefore, in order to maintain a continuous, cooperative and common effort to regulate economic and social life associated with the work of minors, with a view to safeguarding childhood. However, the success achieved over these years in nothing devalues the importance that data from an exhaustive and comprehensive study throughout the national territory can offer, in order to consolidate all the measures adopted so far and, moreover, others that can be brought in to maintain this scenario and cope with possible situations that may arise with regard to child labour. The PS will therefore monitor these initiatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u240	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u241	Mr President: I should like to begin by welcoming these initiatives on child labour, but, Madam Member, it is necessary to tell the Socialist Party that this problem is not solved, because if it were not needed a study on the phenomenon and we would not need to do anything else. Still this year, the National Confederation of Action on Child Labour alerted Portugal to the resurgence of new forms of child labour, especially in areas such as restoration, fashion, shows and many cultural activities. It was neither we nor any opposition party to say so, it was a confederation specially called for to do so, so the Socialist Party appears here saying that the problem is no longer a major one. More: with the emergence of the pandemic, because of the COVID-19, pressure on the labour market increased even more the need for use of child labour in many variants. There was an increase of 5 % to 10 % compared to the last data we had. This is the situation during a Government of the Socialist Party. Therefore, this study is more important than ever because, in Portugal, the exploitation of labor, sexual and various forms of children remains a reality and only with measures of rupture will we be able to effectively combat this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u242	For an intervention to close the debate by the ENP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u243	Mr President: Despite the efforts to demonstrate consensus, we cannot fail to strengthen the urgent need of the Government to take measures to quantify and qualify the problem of child labour, to deepen the fight against this form of exploitation and to improve the daily lives of children and their families. In addition, there are certain activities in modern times that, not being directly considered child labour, should be of concern and attention because they can intensify and worsen in contexts of crisis. In fact, the identification of child labour situations in the present can lead to some difficulties, and the National Confederation of Action on Child Labour has also been alerting to some situations that need more attention, such as in the areas of fashion, arts and entertainment and sports. We cannot ignore that, with the effects of the pandemic to be reflected in the growth of the number of unemployed and cuts in wages, particularly through layoff, among other causes, it is necessary to guarantee children a future laughter, far from poverty and sacrifice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u244	Closing the discussion of the Draft Resolution No. 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP), we move to the sixth point of the agenda, which is from the evaluation of the Draft Deliberation No 10 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — The first amendment is made to Resolution No 4 - PL / 2019 of 6 November ( List and composition of permanent parliamentary committees ), to which no time has been allocated for discussion. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the quorum has been checked, we will begin the voting phase with two draft weighing votes. We begin by voting on the draft vote No 323 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PAN and PS ) — I regret the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who will be read by Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Draft Vote is of the following content: « Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg, member of the Supreme Court of the United States, died last September 18 at 87 years. He was born in the Brooklyn neighborhood of New York and trained in law at Cornell, Harvard and Columbia universities, having been one of the few women of his course. He married his college colleague Martin Ginsburg and was a mother between the bachelor's degree and the bachelor's degree. It was an acre of equal rights between men and women and a human and social rights defender, fighting for freedom, justice and anti-discrimination. Ginsburg worked as a volunteer lawyer for the American Union for Civil Liberties where he defended, among other things, women who had lost their jobs in pregnancy. Believing that gender could not be the basis of discrimination, he also accepted cases in which the complainants were men, such as the case of a widow who considered social services to be incapable of caring for children. When in 1993 he was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the Supreme Court, Ginsburg reminded his mother, saying: ‘ I pray that it will be all she would have been if she had lived in an era in which women could aspire and achieve. ’ He often recognized himself as a ‘ childhood educator ’ to raise men’s awareness of gender equality issues. During the 27 years as a Supreme Judge, numerous decisions in favour of the right to abortion and against gender discrimination were highlighted. Among the causes of Ginsburg were the protection of parental rights of those who did not have socio-economic conditions, the extension of the right to vote, the defense of marriage between people of the same sex, the rights of immigrants and cross-border health care. Thus, meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u246	A judge and a brave, serious, innovative woman died. We are going to miss it a lot, not only in the United States but in the world. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on this draft vote. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 327 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PAR ) — I regret the death of Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão, who will be read by Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u247	Mrs. Members, the Voto Project is of the following content: « Joaquim Veríssimo Serra was one of the most brilliant Portuguese historians and it is thanks to you and his work that millions of Portuguese have become better acquainted with their own history. Born on July 8, 1925, in Santarém, Joaquim Veríssimo Serrano died on July 31, 2020, in this same city, 95 years old. Professor of Professor of the Faculty of Letters and rector of the University of Lisbon, between 1970 and 1973, was director of the Portuguese Cultural Centre of Paris of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and President of the Portuguese Academy of History, between 1975 and 2006. Teacher and reference to thousands of students, in whom he has instilled taste for research, was and will certainly be an inspiration for generations of Portuguese teachers and researchers who dedicate their lives to the knowledge of the History of Portugal. His main work is, recognizedly, the History of Portugal, of the Verbo Editor in 19 volumes, which Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão began to publish in 1977 and which he devoted his whole life, although many others are part of his vast bibliography. Among the different decorations received in Portugal and throughout the world, stands out the Prince of Asturias of Social Sciences, the titles of Doctor Honoris Causa by the University of Montpellier and the University Complutense of Madrid, the National Order of the Southern Cruzeiro do Brasil, the title of Commander of the Order of Public Education of Portugal, the Great Cruz of the Order of Civil Merit of Spain, the Great Cruz of the Order of Andrés Bello of Venezuela, the Great Cruz of the Civil Order of Afonso X, The Sábio, of Spain, and the Great Cruz of the Ancient, Nobilímí e Esclaricida Military Order of Sant'Iago da Espada, of the Scientific, Literary and Artistic Mérito. The work and the role that Veríssimo Serra had in Portuguese society and its very significant contribution to expanding our culture and our historiography internationally are vast. More than his work— thanks to which Portugal and the Portuguese have a richer and more complete history to tell future generations—only, probably, his character and his example of simplicity, unanimously recognized by his peers, his students and all those who had the pleasure and privilege to read, learn and follow the journey of Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão. With the death of Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão, an unmistakable figure of the 20th century, the Portuguese country and culture are poorer. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Joaquim Veríssimo Serrão, expressing its condolences and the deepest feeling of respect and solidarity for his family and friends and all those who had the privilege of being his students. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u248	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Bureau expresses its deep sadness at the death and disappearance of a great Portuguese — a great Portuguese, I repeat — and addresses the family, in the person of the child here present, Prof. Doctor Vítor Manuel Guimarães Veríssimo Serrão, the sorry senses. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's have a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u249	Mrs. Members, we now have the vote on the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 46 / XIV — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring, assessment and delivery of the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. Let us begin with the special vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 4 ( a ). the Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PS, replacing Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall vote on the new decree with the amendments now introduced. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we turn to the votes regarding the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 55 / XIV — Fifth amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the right to petition ). We shall vote on a proposal for an amendment to the PS amending Article 17 ( 14 ). the Act No 43 / 90 of 10 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall vote on a proposal for a PS amendment to Article 24 ( a ). the Act No 43 / 90 of 10 August, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstained.]] We continue with the vote on the proposal for a PS amendment to Article 24 ( 3 ). the Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD were adopted.]] We shall now vote on the proposal for a PS amendment to Article 24 ( 1 ). -A of Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August, as set out in Article 3. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstained.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment to the PS to replace Article 5. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstained.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on the new Decree with the amendments introduced. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD were approved.]] We are now returning to the main script of votes, with the vote on the Draft Deliberation No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — The first amendment is made to Resolution No 4 - PL / 2019 of 6 November ( List and composition of standing parliamentary committees ). [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 307 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to enhance associations that promote gender balance in their social bodies. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u250	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u251	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u252	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u253	Economic and social response programme for the Algarve. The Left Block called for the vote on this initiative by points. So let us start by voting on point 1. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the IL, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u254	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u255	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u256	Mr President, it is to announce that I will give a statement of vote on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u257	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue with the vote on point 7. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the IL, the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 12. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN and ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]] Let us now vote on point 13. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and Abstentions of BE, the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of PS Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 20. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and abstentions of the BE, the PCP, the PEV, the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point 22. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV, the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the Members of the PS Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]] Finally, let us vote on the remaining points. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH, votes against the PS and abstentions from the PCP, PEV, IL, non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira, Maria Joaquina Matos, José Apolinário and Luís Graça.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u258	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u259	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u260	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the last seven votes, Mr. Members Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Joaquina Matos, Ana Passos, Fernando Anastácio and I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u261	It densifies the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment, clarifying its application in the situations of providing surveillance, feeding or cleaning services (thirteenth amendment to the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and CH and abstention from IL.]] This bill goes down to 10. the Commission. Let's now vote, in general, Bill No. 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285. that of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory for the award by public tender of public services. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 503 / XIV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( PCP ) — Defends and strengthens the rights of workers in the event of transmission of an undertaking or establishment, in the private sector or in the public sector, by awarding services which are carried out by public tender, direct adjustment or any other means envisaged. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] Mrs. Members, the bill that we just voted down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 372 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a scheme for strengthening workers in social equipment and repeals Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020 of 31 March 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 490 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — 6 % update of the cooperation commitment with social and solidarity sector entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstains from BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No 504 / XIV / 1 is hereby followed. a ( BE ) — Conversion into a contract of work of the scholarships of the recruited professionals to strengthen support for households and other social equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions against the NAP and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 99 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the preparation of concrete and permanent measures aimed at reducing the effects of drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the PEV.]] Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 155 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs the national plan for structural prevention of the effects of drought and its monitoring. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstained from BE and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u262	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u263	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u264	Mr President, it is only to announce that, in relation to the vote we have just held, we will present a written vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u265	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us now vote, also in general, Bill No. 502 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the plan to prevent and adapt the territory to the effects of drought. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] The vote on Parliamentary Inquiry No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( CH ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the financing of political campaigns by the Espírito Santo Group ( GES ), as well as the divestiture operations of New Bank assets. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV, IL and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for Parliamentary Inquiry No 5 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — possible parliamentary inquiry into the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for Parliamentary Inquiry No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — possible parliamentary investigation commission for the reasons of the losses of the New Bank. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD.]] Let us also vote for Parliamentary Inquiry No 7 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — any parliamentary investigation commission for losses recorded by the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have three committees of inquiry approved, so we have to come up with a solution. I think that, at parliamentary level, this is the first time that this is happening, but I have a proposal for a solution in the obvious sense—I do not see any other solution, but there will be, in fact, certainly because there is always imagination for more—that it goes down to its committee and, in committee, it is worked to transform the three committees into one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u266	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u267	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u268	Mr. President, I just want to leave two notes. First of all, I should like to inform the Bureau and the Members. Members that the PSD will present a statement of vote on the votes we have just held. Secondly, Mr President, I think that what is reasonable, in view of the outcome of these votes, is a single committee of inquiry, of course, with a view to encompassing the whole of the Committee of Inquiry initiatives that have been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u269	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. In the background, he said the same thing that I, i.e., went down to committee and, in committee, a single object is defined. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u270	Mr President, as far as content is concerned, I think we agree that stabilization is intended to be the maximum object. The fall to committee is that it may not be consensual, insofar as, in good rigour, there is no committee to be brought down, since this is the setting up of a possible committee of inquiry. So if the Conference of Leaders could assume the task of formatting a single text, I think it would be a transversal and consensual solution that would meet Mr President's suggestion, without falling down to committee, but basically with the very same substantive effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u271	Therefore, Mr President, I understand that the proposal is to go to the Conference of Leaders and that is where the object is defined. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u272	Mr President, in the same way as Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to say the following: in fact, there is no committee specializing in committees of inquiry and therefore, in my opinion, it will have to be the Conference of Leaders. It is clear that today's vote leads to the setting up of a committee and what has been approved and rejected only determines the scope and purpose of that committee. It is therefore necessary to add to the object of the proposals that have been adopted and that, from our point of view, will define a committee of inquiry on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u273	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when I spoke about going down to committee, it was because of the object and nature of the matter. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u274	Mr President, I would like to leave two notes, the first one to say that we agree with the idea of the Conference of Leaders now being able to take this matter into account. The second note is to make it clear from the outset that the decision taken by the plenary cannot then be distorted by any committee or even by the Conference of Leaders. The material content of the committee of inquiry is defined by the votes we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u275	Very well, Mr President, this will obviously be a discussion at the Conference of Leaders. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u276	Mr President, what is natural, even with other committees of inquiry, is that there is a project defining the composition, etc. which is responsible for the services and is then signed by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. in this case, I think we will be able to follow this same procedure: the services themselves will add all the points that deserve the vote on the plenary—and indeed I share what Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares said, i.e. we will not do the political evaluation to exclude point A or point B because they have all been approved—with the composition they usually register, and this is taken to the Leaders Conference to be merely sanctioned and Mr. President of the House to hold the committee as soon as it is determined.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u277	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you. Members who spoke here are part of the Conference of Leaders and therefore this discussion will be held at the Conference of Leaders and not here in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u278	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u279	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u280	Mr President, it was to remember that the Single Representatives of a Party do not join the Leaders Conference when it comes to not discussing the agendas and this discussion could take place at one of these meetings where we do not sit. I would like to point out that it is mandatory for us to have the opportunity to speak to confirm that the object proposed in our proposal is reflected in the parliamentary committee of inquiry before it is taken over by the President of the Assembly of the Republic and shared by the other political forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u281	We will then bring down to the Conference of Leaders — come down, yes, because we are in the plenary. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u282	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u283	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u284	Mr President, I would just like to make an addendum that seems useful to me, bearing in mind the position of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo and stressing the need for a Conference of Leaders briefly so that the matter can be stabilized, insofar as there is no agenda. The bottom line is that this could be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u285	All right, this discussion will be held at the Conference of Leaders, with the note that there is a need for shortness and that there are Single Members Representatives of a Party, as is the case with the Liberal Initiative, who proposed a committee of inquiry with a particular object. Let us now vote for draft resolution No 553 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Spanish Government in order to close the Almaraz nuclear power plant. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 279 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Conducting a rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 289 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall vote, in a global final vote, on draft resolution No 275 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border measures to combat racism. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against CH and the abstention of IL.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on draft resolution No 292 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the development and implementation of a national strategy to combat racism. [[We voted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the CH.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on draft resolution No 458 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — National campaign to renew the anti-racist pact in Portuguese society. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] We shall generally vote for a replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bills Nos 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( fourth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme of protection to tenants by 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for IHRU financial support by 31 December 2020. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Let us now vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indicative votes in the speciality at the Commission on the replacement text we have just voted on. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then vote, in a global final vote, on the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on Bills Nos 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( fourth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme of protection to tenants by 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for IHRU financial support by 31 December 2020. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u286	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u287	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u288	Mr President, I would like to ask, on this replacement text which has been voted on, for the waiver of the final wording and the period of complaint, because this must be voted on in plenary to be accepted, so that it can enter into force before the end of the month, which is what is intended to be changed in particular and for this purpose must be done in this way. I therefore ask the Bureau to have this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u289	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on an oral request submitted by BE requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies, in respect of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, relating to Bills Nos 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, on Law No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and the activity of seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u290	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u291	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u292	Mr President, it was to request, in respect of the last vote, the waiver of the deadline for complaints and final drafting in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u293	All right, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on an oral request submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the Proposal for Law No 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u294	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u295	Mrs. Member, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u296	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u297	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Paragraphs 34 to 48 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic, I Series, concerning the plenary meetings of 1. the legislative session of the XIV Legislation held on 27 and 28 February, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 18 and 24 March and 2, 8, 16, 22 and 25 April 2020. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Sofia Araújo has the floor to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform the House that you have entered the Bureau, and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 525 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-25.u299	Thank you, Secretary. It is now up to me to read the agenda for the next plenary session on 30 September: At point one, there will be political statements. In point two, petition No 57 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a ( Joana Isabel Gentil Soares et al.) — Support for all children up to 12 years of age during the entire period of school suspension. In point three, Petition No 636 / XIII / 4 will be discussed. a (MASMI’s Maternal Child Health Support Movement ) — Request for action to re-qualify the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, of the Local Guard Health Unit, together with Resolution Projects 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to re-qualify the Pavilion 5 of Sousa Martins Hospital, 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, in the Local Guard Health Unit, for installation of the Department of Child and Woman Health, 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government an absolute priority in the completion of the project to requalify the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins da Guarda, for Maternity and Department of Health of Children and Women, 609 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Pavilion 5 of the Guard and Pavilion Hospital Dona Amélia, and 613 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the immediate reconstruction of the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins for the installation of the maternal-child clinical area in Guarda. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of good work and good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours.]]
