ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will be reading a series of legislative initiatives that have recently entered my office. Please, Secretary Sofia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, several legislative initiatives have been admitted by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. I refer, first, to Law Projects Nos. 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, which creates the system of access to minimum banking services, which falls to 5. the Commission, 217 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Restricts the collection of bank fees by amending Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June 2009 which falls to 5. the Commission, 218 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensuring the right to payment of food allowance to all workers in a minimum amount equivalent to the Public Administration, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 219 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the prohibition of racing of dogs most known by chicken races, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 264 / XIV / 1 were also accepted. a ( BE) — Recommends the modernisation of the air quality monitoring network, which falls to 1. the Commission, 265 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the creation of remuneration supplements for the lifeguard career, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 266 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Review of the Albufeira Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Water Resources to the Country, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 267 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends conservation measures for the lobe and its wild prey, which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin today's work, I would like to say the following: of course, this was a terrible week for the country, but also for Parliament. Mr. João Albino Rainho Ataíde das Neves, elected by the electoral circle of Coimbra, who just a few days ago, sitting in the last row of his bench, was here voting with us, died however. At the beginning of this session, I would like to say that we will keep a minute's silence, without more. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Next Friday, we will pay the usual tribute, but this is indeed an absolutely exceptional situation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Sofia Araújo will take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Secretary Sofia Araújo,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u4	Mr. President and Mr. Members of the Bureau gave an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which refers to the replacement of Mr Ataíde ( PS ), the electoral circle of Coimbra, by Raquel de Fatima Cardoso Ferreira, with effect from 21 February 2020, including. The opinion is that the replacement of the mandate of Mr Ataíde by Raquel of Fatima Cardoso Ferreira fulfils the legal requirements, with effect from 21 February 2020, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, now, yes, we will enter today's agenda, the first point of which consists in an up-to-date debate required by the ENP on the construction of the Montijo airport. Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens have scheduled this debate on the construction of Montijo Airport because, after all we know of this process, we have now been confronted with news that the Government is thinking to amend Decree-Law No 186/2007, with the sole purpose of passing over the municipal chambers which have seemed unfavorable. It therefore seems to us that the present debate is more than justified. A debate on a process that is marked by the most complete lack of public interest, since who chose the location Montijo was the concessionaire of the Portuguese airports, controlled by the French group Vinci. The Government has thus given up an important decision on an infrastructure with the importance and size of an airport and the consequences of which will be borne by the people and our environmental values. In fact, when the ability to choose the location of an airport is placed in the hands of the private interest, it cannot be expected that this choice has met the criteria where the public interest has prevailed or has even been present. Of course not! If it was the multinational to choose the location, it did it according to its own interests. In this regard, it is recalled that the economic group that chose the location of the airport also holds the concession of the exploitation of the Vasco Bridge of Gama, thus allowing it, with the airport in Montijo, to win this multinational on two fronts. It is therefore clear that, as far as the location is concerned, the public interest was out of accounting. As we know, public interest does not enter into multinational accounts. That is also why we have a government to bring the public interest in decisions, which, in this case, simply did not happen. It is no wonder that it is moving towards the construction of an airport without any studies indicating the Montijo as the best solution for the location of the airport, both from the point of view of the development of the country, from the point of view of the population and from the point of view of the environment. And why? Because the choice was made to reflect on Vinci's interests and not on the public interest and because the government literally closed its eyes. It closed its eyes to the importance that an airport represents in terms of development of the country and closed its eyes to the serious environmental impacts that this location represents to ecosystems, but also to the health of populations. It is true that the government did not always close its eyes, it opened them, when it wanted to leave a clear message to the entities that would have to issue the Environmental Impact Declaration, saying that there was no plan B, and therefore the construction of the airport was at Montijo or there would be no airport. And it worked. The APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) issued — indeed, without surprise — a favorable environmental impact declaration conditional on the construction of the airport at the location chosen by multinational Vinci. In the words of the President of APA, « the various entities involved in the evaluation process found a balance point to enable Montijo airport ». Therefore, what happened in this assessment was to accommodate, from an environmental point of view, a decision that was already taken, because it was either at Montijo or there was no airport. And, as if all this were little, we were confronted last week with the unique response of ANA — Airports from Portugal to TSF, about the regulator's impossibility to give green light to the construction of the airport in Montijo, due to the unfavorable opinions of some authorities. The ANA response was clear: « Specific rules are being prepared for Montijo airport ». In other words, the Portuguese learned from ANA that changes were being made to the law. What the Portuguese didn't know was whether ANA was preparing these amendments or whether it was the government. There seems to be nothing strange in this process! Next, on the same morning, and in a kind of cabinet dictatorship, apparently legitimized by the sharing of a piece of legislative power, the Minister of Infrastructure came to Parliament publicly assuming that, if a law does not serve the conjunctural purposes of the Government — and, in this case, the economic group benefiting from one of the greatest revenues to be incorporated into the State budget — it must be changed. This position of the Government is a complete reversal of the principles of the democratic rule of law. Materially, it represents a violation of the genesis of the principle of the separation of powers, which is what happens when the law is sought to conform to the will of the executive power and not the opposite, as follows from this constitutional corollary. In other words, the law applies only when it works, when it matters to the purposes of the government; when it fails, the law changes. And we are not talking about any amendment, we are talking about an amendment which aims solely to circumvent the opinions of the municipal chambers which have proved unfavorable to the construction of the airport in Montijo. The law says that there must be a positive opinion from the chambers, the chambers give a negative opinion and the government, instead of democratically respecting the will of the chambers, amends the law, passing over the decisions of the authorities. In fact, it is not the presidents of the chambers who gave a negative opinion that they should feel diminished and disrespected, that they are all the autarchs of the whole country, regardless of the political area to which they belong, that they should feel less and disrespected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u8	on our part, it contains the Government with the most firm opposition to this real coup in the democratic local power and, if this intention of the Government is to be realized, the Greens will make use of all the regulatory mechanisms within our reach to prevent this coup, including so that the diploma is the subject of parliamentary assessment by the Assembly of the Republic. At least it will be useful to clarify who respects the democratic local power and who does not respect it and, now, to understand the PSD's position on this matter, on the respect that the authorities deserve from the Government. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u9	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, speaking on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the amendment of the law governing the certification and licensing of airports is not a debate on a particular location, it is a debate on whether the law is wrong or whether the law is correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u11	And if it's retroactive, or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u12	We understand that the law is inadequate, it is disproportionate by the power of veto that gives, within the limit, one municipality. in the same way that the central government — the state — must not have absolute access to the territory of a municipality, we believe that a municipality must also not have absolute power to decide on the populations of the neighbouring municipalities and even on the national interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At the limit, we could be in a situation that would lead us to the fact that the country could not, or could not, have a new airport. If, tomorrow, we decide not to do so in Montijo and move forward, for example, to Alcochete, we have no guarantee that one or two municipalities will not be able to appear blocking the Alcochete option, as in any other location. Now, the question we should ask is whether this is good or not for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u13	The law says it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u14	Not ignoring that the political process is already a few years old, the formal licensing process has not begun. We have been expecting the Environmental Impact Declaration to be issued, or not — it has been issued — and we would now start a new process, the airport licensing procedure, where binding opinions from municipalities are needed. It was important for us to be aware of this fact: the formal licensing process did not start, it only begins when the licence application is delivered to ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), the entity that may or may not license the airport. It was important to have this note. Third point: why the Montijo option? First, because we wanted to continue a work that had come from a previous government and because we believe that the country cannot be systematically, whenever there is a new government, re-equarating locations or infrastructure with the national importance of an airport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We believe this to be wrong and at the time we believe that the continuation of a process coming from a previous government would guarantee greater conditions of consensus so that that infrastructure could be made. Secondly, because it is the quickest solution in its implementation—and we are talking at a time when Humberto Delgado Airport is already saturated and cannot receive all the planes and passengers looking for our country. Then, as this solution had the agreement of ANA, there is no cost for the public record, which, in a country like ours, is a very important issue. In addition to all this, we understand—and this stems from all the studies that have been done—that this dual solution between Humberto Delgado Airport and an airport for medium-term travel and low-cost companies is a solution appropriate to the needs of the country. Having said this, the Socialist Party is aware that it has no absolute majority...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u15	The Socialist Party or the Government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u16	The government, which is supported by the Socialist Party! And, as we know, in the last elections — at least in the last elections — we were even the most voted party. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] However, we do not have an absolute majority and it will always be with normal and democratic humility that we will obviously accept whatever is the decision of the majority represented in Parliament. It has always been that way, and it will continue to be that way. We understand, however, that the law is wrong and that, therefore, it must be changed and adapted to what is at stake. Nevertheless, we will respect the decision of the majority. They do not ask us to note that a new reverse in relation to a new airport does not have a profoundly negative impact on the country. It has, and will have, a profound negative impact on the country, but of course we respect the rule of law and Parliament. Parliament which, in fact, has no exclusiveness in this matter—we are talking about a decree—but we will respect the result of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u17	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u18	Mr President, Minister, I was curious to hear you. Why in Montijo? Because Vinci chose Montijo, Minister — point!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u19	That's what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u20	The Environment Minister himself assumed here that it was not the government that chose the location, Minister. Secondly, the request has not yet entered the regulatory authority for a simple reason: because it is expected that the government will change the law and then move the process forward. Tell the Minister what you say, changing a law in the middle of the game is unacceptable, changing a law to make a way for a multinational is inconceivable. But changing the law to pass over the opinions of the municipal chambers is even more serious and more dangerous, it is an offense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u21	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u22	It's not fake, no! And it's an offense because municipal cameras are 10, not just Moita's.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u23	That's 10 why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u24	As I said, it is an offense, an offense to local democratic power. And it is not just the Moita that has to feel uncomfortable with this government decision, it is all the country's authorship, no matter what color they are, because one day it can touch them. The principle of the separation of powers tells us that the government has legislative power and executive power. But it also tells us that the executive power must comply with the legislative power. What the government is doing is the opposite: the government is using the legislative power to satisfy its executive claims. But it's different things, Minister. That is why there is a dangerous reversal of democratic rules here. Minister, I also want to remind you of something. On 13 November last year, in a 15-year debate, I asked the Prime Minister about the opinions and the inevitability of the regulator's refusal, because the position of the municipal chambers was already public. Now, what Mr Prime Minister said to us here on 13 November was just this: « The government will abide by the law». So I assume it is the law that is in force. This was said by Mr. Prime Minister. On 27 November last year, I again asked Mr Prime Minister about the matter, asking him directly whether he was considering changing the decree to pass over the opinions of the municipal chambers. And Mr. Prime Minister said textually the following: « The issue of the airport is currently under assessment in ANAC. ANAC will make the law's assessment and we will see what happens accordingly'. In other words, Mr. Prime Minister said not only that he would respect the law but also that there would be no amendments to the diploma. Now, Mr. Minister says the government is going to change the diploma. Now, when there are two members of the government saying the opposite things, one of them is not telling the truth. I will not ask you whether it is Mr. Minister or Mr. Prime Minister who is missing the truth. What I am going to ask you, Minister, is whether, in this amendment, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities will be heard in this claim, which, as I said recently, offends all the citizens of our country. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u25	In reply, Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u26	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the government will obviously respect law and democracy, and that is why we are here. The government has legislative power. We are talking about a decree which can always be appreciated by Parliament, but in the end democratic rules will always be respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u27	That's not what Mr. Minister said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u28	Now, Mr President, when we want to have a debate, we must always tell the whole truth, even because it gives us more credibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u29	Who's missing the truth? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u30	It's not to miss the truth, it's to tell the whole truth. When you say that we are passing over the autarchs, Mr. Deputies, if you want to be taken seriously, you cannot ignore the Montijo, you cannot ignore the Alcochete, you cannot ignore the Barrier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u31	Mr. Minister, you can't ignore him!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u32	They are three of the most affected municipalities — negative and now positively — who want the airport. It is therefore not the Member who respects the will of the municipalities and the Government who does not respect the will of the municipalities. The Government has a certain idea, it proposes, debate this idea, believes that there is a legal standard which is incorrect and defends its amendment. If the majority represented in Parliament understands that this legal standard is correct and should be maintained, it does not alter it. And we, with democratic serenity, humility and respect, will abide by Parliament's decision, the parliamentary majority. There is no drama, we do not need to turn all the debates into apocalyptic debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u33	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u34	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. We made a proposal and we supported that proposal. We think it is the best solution, because it has no cost for the State budget, it is faster to execute, it comes from behind, which offered us a perception of consensus, and obviously is appropriate to the needs of the country. Without drama, let us debate, subject ourselves to the majority's decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u36	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Government, the Portela + Montijo project has become a dogma that cannot be questioned, despite all the evidence. In full climate emergency, they decided to make an airport in one of the most important protected areas in the country, near consolidated urban centres, without rail access, without the possibility of expansion and with an environmental impact impossible to circumvent. It would be irresponsible not to ask: Why the Montijo? What the evidence tells us is that there is nothing to make this location better than other possible. Of course, the only way to prove it would be a strategic environmental assessment that compared various locations, which, in fact, is by law, but that would ruin Vinci's party. And so Montijo because Vinci wants to. Not because it is the best location, but because it is the one that allows you to increase Portela's capacity and quickly increase profits, without investing in a solution that lasts beyond the deadline for granting ANA. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal needs a new airport—and that is why we all agree. But there were better options, already studied, such as Alcochete, not necessarily cheaper, not more expensive. the Government should, at least, ensure that this is the option that protects the strategic interest of the country. But for the Socialist Party, this question has become clubism. The defence of Montijo airport does not respond to arguments and does not stand before anything. Are accessibility insufficient? It is expected that the goodwill of ANA will solve everything. The Tejo estuary houses more than 200,000 birds? Birds aren't expected to be stupid. Does the law provide that autarchs can protect the populations of projects that harm them? They blame themselves and change the law. The problem, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this clubism is wearing Vinci's shirt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u38	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u39	The Left Block doesn't line up for this club. We do not accept demagogy on a supposed national interest which is called into question, each time it is said that the Montijo is a bad option. We did not sell the national interest to Vinci for tuta-e-meia, we did not allow it to be a foreign company to decide the location of the airport and neither do they count on us to change the law and protect the populations. It is not of national interest to submit the country to the decision of a private foreign company. It is on behalf of Portugal that we will continue to say that there are better alternatives for the country, for the environment and for the populations than the Montijo airport. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u40	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The government has indeed created a problem for itself, the problem exists. He said recently that it was a process that had been inherited and to which the Government had given continuity. It would have been better if he had done so effectively, because, in fact, what he said is true. In 2015, when the Government of António Costa took possession, a key piece was missing throughout this process, which was the environmental impact study. And we waited for 2016, waiting for the environmental impact study to be born. But he wasn't born. In 2017, his predecessor, then Minister Pedro Marques, met with ANA, made a press conference, signed a paper and thought « now it will be! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It passed the year 2017 and the environmental impact study... nothing! In 2018, the same thing. In other words, this continuity was indeed very slow. But the investment is necessary. And we all know that there is no airport that has no environmental impact. Now, this fundamental piece appeared in the summer of 2019, at the end of the legislature! Therefore, this work of continuity was all faked. They were pretending they were solving matters and things were going to work out. But no, they extended it. And now they've created a problem. After all, there was not only the environmental impact study. After all, during this whole time, no one has dealt with anything that is in the law, years ago, more than 10 years ago, to go short and get things negotiated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u43	That is why the question that must be put here is this: how was it possible, after spending so much time, to reach this point, Minister? Who failed? Have you forgotten that it was necessary to talk and negotiate with other partners? Have you forgotten that there was all the work to be done over the years? I would also like to recall that already in the summer of 2015, already with the previous government, had circulated memoirs by the different municipalities in order to get close to this path. But the truth is that it was the Socialist Party itself who, as we were on top of the 2015 legislative elections and did not agree in any way that there was a definitive agreement on this issue, ordered its authorities to stop the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u45	And then they forgot, they put everything in the drawer and they went here pretending... This is a little unfair to the Minister who has been in office for a while, but his predecessor, who talked so much and who supposedly did so much in that way that we all realized it was to "sell the tub of the snake" and more nothing, he did nothing. And now, do you have a problem in your hands? Got 'em! But before solving it, it is important that they explain to the Portuguese what has failed in this process. Explain who the protagonists were and what responsibilities should be met to the people involved and to the government, which is also involved. [[PSD applause.]] But that is not to realize that nothing has happened, saying 'Look, we now have this problem'. What about the whole process? For four years, what was done, what failed?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u46	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u47	I congratulate The Greens for bringing this debate here—I think it is a very good time to do so—which is not the change of law, but the construction of the Montijo airport. That, yes, is the current debate that is scheduled today, we must not anticipate other times. And I congratulate the ENP, because the debate on this subject allows perhaps the Minister to do my own fault here, or to recognize what has failed. And above all, it allows the Portuguese to understand what you have been doing over these four years, in which they have not solved something that had to be resolved from the beginning, because it was a fundamental piece. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u48	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: The first note I leave is that the humility that Mr Minister has shown today is not the same humility he has shown last week. That is a positive note. Secondly, I would like to say that the ENP convenes this current debate on the construction of Montijo airport because the Government has announced a change in the legal framework for certification of Montijo airport infrastructure. And why does the government announce this legislative amendment? Do it because the National Civil Aviation Authority, as it follows from the law, will have to request advice from the municipalities that are affected by the construction of the Montijo airport, will have to do this consultation. Last week, Mr. Minister, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, came to say that there was only one municipality that had reservations, he was against, that it was the municipality of Moita. Mr Minister, it is not one but five municipalities that are against and thus compromise the prior viability of ANAC. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the law in force was proposed and approved by a Government of the Socialist Party itself, so the position of the Socialist Party is not perceived. The Socialist Party is very upset when it is upset and then changes its law. Did the Socialist Party decide on the construction of Montijo airport without any dialogue with the municipalities of the South Margin? Has the Socialist Party forgotten that the law in force gives municipalities a veto? The current government's position is that of an authentic 'I want, I can and I command', and this obviously affects the respect and autonomy of the local power itself. The current law gives veto power to municipal chambers affected by the construction or expansion of an airport. An adhumo amendment will deprotect not only the municipalities of the South Margin but also the municipalities of Lisbon, Loures, Porto, Matosinhos or also Faro. We must find here a balance, a rational balance, between national interest, regional interest and local interest. It is obvious that the construction of an airport or its expansion has, of course, environmental impacts, impacts on accessibility, has an impact on the quality of life of populations. The municipalities should have a word to say about the number of air movements in their cities. I will take advantage of this debate to announce that the CDS will still deliver to the City Council of Lisbon a proposal to reduce the number of air movements in the capital. There are about 60 000 lisboetas that are affected daily with the noise at Portela airport. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the CDS, it is clear that municipalities should decide on the limits of air traffic in their municipality. Let me give an example: the law imposes as a noise limit 55 decibels. In the case of Moita, when the planes are landing in Montijo they will pass precisely through the urban mesh of that municipality. And what does the PS defend? That municipalities have no need to pronounce on anything, they do not have to defend the populations. We understand that this is an exercise of authority. To make it absolutely clear, I will say that the CDS is not against any solution that brings an airport response to the country and the region of Lisbon and that thereby helps our economy and our tourism. But it is important that this solution will ease the pressure that exists at Portela airport and that obviously puts pressure on the Lisbon Council and the Loures Council. In fact, the CDS, for many years, many years, when many were discussing Alcochete, when many were discussing Ota, when many were discussing Alverca, what was the CDS defending? Defend the Portela + Montijo solution. The truth is if they had listened to us at that time, today the region of Lisbon, the country would have another airport capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u50	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u51	It is important to remember that in 2012 the former Government negotiated the concession of Portela by providing in the contract with ANA the construction of a new airport, which could have up to four parallel tracks. This would only happen if three of the five capacity factors of the Portela were verified. Of course, in 2017, four of these factors were achieved. After that, ANA, under the famous clause 42.3 of the concession agreement, presented the proposal for the construction of the airport to be in Montijo and would be up to the State, would be the responsibility of the Socialist Government, whether or not to accept that proposal. But on January 8, 2019, this socialist government took and accepted Montijo solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u52	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u53	I will now finish, Mr President. In other words, this government has declined the possibility of building a new airport of root and the Lisbon region could thus have a large airport with airport capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u54	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u55	Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance, I will end by saying only the following: Mr Minister is announcing that the airport will allow a capacity for 50 years, but if we talk to the Secretary of State he will say it is 100 years. The truth is, we have absolute reservations about this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u56	Mr President, your time is long gone. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u57	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The question I put is: what is the government's plan B? That is, if this solution is exhausted in 10 or 15 years, what is Plan B? Does ANA accept the commitment of more investments or does it not assume the commitment of more investments? Or the government's plan B is to build clues and more clues in Montijo?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u58	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u59	Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u60	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I never thought of quoting José Socrates in this House. Never, I confess. But today is what I'm going to do. The former Prime Minister said: « Only hatred and political blindness justify the choice of this new airport. Only the inability to give us reason and..." — not to me, but to the former Prime Minister — «... can lead to this choice». And he says more: "(...) with terrible environmental impact, terrible costs and just..."—who says it is a socialist, it is not me! — «... to serve as an interest to the holders of ANA and private capital, which will now make a lot of profit». Quotation by José Socrates today to a Portuguese newspaper.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u62	And what does arrive defend? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u63	Curious! It is once again the methodology of the Socialist Party: when it does not like the law, the law is changed and then the practice is done. The NAP is now very happy to have given its hand to the Socialist Party in the Budget. However, a State Secretary, when asked about the impact on birds, says that birds are not stupid. Great hand they gave to the Socialist Party! But also those who now criticize...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u64	Mr. Deputies, you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u65	I will finish, Mr. President. Also those who now criticize, they know that this government will always do everything to forget your opinion and indicate what you want and how you want to do the airport. Let no one say, after this decision, that he has come to the deception about the options of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u66	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are called for a debate today, which, as we have already seen, is an urgent one. After returning 50 years, 17 proposals for location, it is time to realize the expansion of airport capacity. And on that we are apparently all in agreement, despite having here some nuances that are relevant to uncover. One of them has to do with this: we have heard, in this debate, speaking in 10 municipalities that are against. There are not even 10 municipalities on the Setúbal peninsula! There's only nine. I mean, the ladies. Members, in their presence to criticize the government and criticize the Socialist Party's bench, can even invent councils where they do not exist! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] It's just that reality is different. The reality is that the regulator will define which councils will be affected and what we know is that of the four that are affected, three are in favour. The Socialist Party does not accept lessons of local autonomy. We are the greatest party in local power. I take advantage to greet, in the person of the President of the City Hall of Barreiro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u68	It's the city that's from the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u69	... here present, all the autarchs, regardless of whether or not they have our position. But we also note that, in the course of budgetary debate, our opposition to meddling in a matter which was within the competence of the Government, using the Assembly of the Republic to do so, has been very high. Today, they're trying to do the opposite. That is, they want to instrumentalize local power to force a position of party leadership. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u70	Well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u71	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on what is essential. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are doing a huge exercise of reopening, re-starting, the process. It is the addiction of always: that of self-sabotage, that of those who do not want to develop the country. And we could be like this forever, discussing locations between us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese are not going to understand why 230 Members are closing up in a room to discuss what has been discussed for 50 years, in 17 locations! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u72	And the PS has nothing to do with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u73	Here! So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u74	None of us in the Socialist Party can today be accused of ignoring a grueling need for interest or biased myopia. That is a question that needs to be put. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by relocating the debate where it should be repositioned and not in your narrative, I will say the following: in the last seven years, the Lisbon airport has doubled the number of passengers, transporting more than 100 % of what we were carrying in 2012. Many of those seven years ago smiled and said that the prospects for expansion of airport capacity were megalomania, today they understand that Portugal is losing every day, and it is not little. Allow me to quantify, Mrs. Members: only April to September this year, 400 000 passengers will not land at Portela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u75	In fact, it's even 10 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u76	It can even be! You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u77	It's all the Chinese that won't land at Portela!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u78	Mr Bruno Dias can well continue in the effort to write, say, to make aside, that there is a reality that cannot deny: every year that passes, every year that our indecision parades on the back of a hesitation, we lost 600 million euros, Mr honourable Member! And our economy is not in a position to do. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and the Government that we have set up, first by dialogue - is known; first by responsibility - is also known, but also has decision-making capacity, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. And you have something else, Mrs Joana Mortágua and Mr José Luís Ferreira: this is a government that is waterproof to the interests of the private. [[Protests by BE MP Joana Mortágua and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u79	I am!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u80	I repeat, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: it is impermeable to the interests of the private! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD, BE, PCP and CH rice.]] But, and we go back to the contradictions on the left on our left, the PCP and the Left Block, who have tried to stop this project, believe in a good APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) when APA says what they want to hear and a bad APA when APA says what they don't want to hear. In the Socialist Party, we have a different notion than are independent technical entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u81	It's no technique! Where's the technique? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u82	I shouldn't have to explain, but independent technical entities are exactly that: they're technical and independent. It is up to us, at the time of the decision, to assess and make the decision. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone assumes their responsibilities — and still in this debate we will have the opportunity to discuss a little more — but we cannot forget what we are talking about. This is an investment project of EUR 1, EUR 3 billion. It is a project that will create 10 000 direct, indirect and induced jobs. It is a project that will realize the vision of a coherent metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u83	So why is it necessary to change the law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u84	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying the following: a nation that hesitates at every great moment is doomed not to prosper. We know this is the time to decide. This is not a shortcut of circumstance, but a historic journey that we must be able to embrace. This investment is a good investment for Portugal and for Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u85	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u86	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The law determines that airport infrastructures for construction, expansion or modernisation have different conditions, which include the favourable opinion of all municipal chambers of the municipalities potentially affected, either by decommissioning surfaces or for environmental reasons. The Government has read this rule in the law and has said: « high there, the opinion is necessary, provided it is favourable. If this is not the case, the law is changed and the municipal chambers must not be heard».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u88	The government had already taken this position of follow-up to multinational Vinci in this process. When not only does he not question how he even defends and supports Vinci's choice regarding this project, the government systematically resorts to the philosophy of the « no alternative», of the author of that « great woman on the left» that was Margaret Thatcher.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u90	The question that we have to leave is this: what is the document that the Government has, what is the document that anyone can have and submit that compares the various location options and concludes that the most advantageous is that of Montijo? Oh, my God! I wonder if the Minister has that document, which is unknown. I wonder if anyone here has that document. [[Pause.]] Well, as no one has this document that shows that, of the various options in comparison, the most favorable is that of Montijo, we have here the report of the National Civil Engineering Laboratory that already in 2007 concluded that compared with the best option was that of the Alcochete Shooting Camp, and that the PS Government in 2008 approved and approved this same report, which means that the problem that PS identified existed 50 years ago is solved more than 10 years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u91	Exactly! In Alcochete!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u92	The problem is that in this new airport process, the government wanted to continue the work and options of the PSD/CDS government. The Minister stressed this in his speech, and we add that this is where the problem is. It is in the fact that in this area, as in others, the Government imposes on the country a policy of continuity before the ruinous options of the PSD Government / CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u93	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u94	... instead of breaking right policy, as the country needs, so urgently. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, you may repeat to the exhaustion that are waterproof to the interests of multinationals, but the problem is that they are stuffed up to the bones in your own subservience. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u95	I'm glad Mr. Deputy spoke to look at the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u96	We cannot fail to see that in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u98	In fact, it is politically significant that, in the face of the current situation of denunciation and disagreement of local elected officials—and much would have to say about the positions of the recent autarchic past of the region regarding the denunciation and disagreement of this project—and looking at those who continue to say 'no' to these options and to these implications for the population, you respond with the return to the cavaquist thesis of the forces of blockade, carry in the paints of populism and political chicana...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u99	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u100	... and carimbam of instrumentalization and partisan guerrillas the autoarchs who, by assuming their role, decide autonomously in defense of their populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u101	Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u102	What we now want, Mr President, is what we want to take on. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is a commitment of the CFP : if this intention of the Government and of Vinci is realized, to change the legal regime and impose a law in accordance with this project and this multinational, they can be sure that there will be parliamentary review of the CFP and that the Assembly of the Republic will be called upon to have a word on this matter. [[PCP applause.]] What we say is that it is particularly revealing how this government and the PS elect look at the role of local power and the function of the autarchs before the populations, when they carimba any authority, in their objection to a project, instrumentalization and partisan guerrilla. This is the way of seeing the government. This is the understanding that you have of the democratic local power, but that is not how we see it. We do not look at the legitimacy of local democratic power according to the agreement with the positions of each party. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] This is not how democracy and the Constitution define the role of local authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u104	...and that is what the government should also take into account! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u105	It's the time of the NAP. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u106	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We have an environmental impact study full of failures, incongruence and omissions. The alerts are more than many, from the population, environmental associations, scientists, cabin executives and even in the Netherlands, petitions are made for the protection of birds that will be affected by the construction of this airport. by the way, these concerns have already reached the Netherlands, but they have not yet reached our government. The Montijo Airport Environmental Impact Study, with regard to avifauna, admits that the impacts are significant. In addition, several associations and experts have reported that the studies carried out are insufficient, insofar as not all areas of airport influence have been analyzed, methods have not been used for the appropriate risk assessment and there has still been use of outdated data. In short, we do not have reliable studies on the actual impact of the airport on avifauna. Recall the case of Oakland International Airport, in the United States, where, despite the implementation of mitigation measures, more than 1000 birds a year are shot down on average, since these do not leave the shoes. In other words, when it is impossible to ensure that an episode of bird strike does not occur, it opts for the slaughter of birds. In the Portuguese case, there is a real risk that this will happen as well. therefore, the importance of a study that takes into account not only rigorous and current data but also alternative locations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u107	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u108	As Mr Under-Secretary of State and Communications said, «birds are not stupid and adapt». Let me say that locating an airport in a place where there are hundreds of thousands of birds and thereby endangering the lives of people, as happened, for example, in New York, 11 years ago, is deeply irresponsible. But there are other failures: there has not been an assessment of the risk of accidents in industrial areas, as imposed by the Seveso Directive, thus ignoring the industrial zone of the Barreiro ; the environmental impacts at noise level are also significant, affecting about 400 000 people. The municipality of Moita, among other aspects, says that, whether from an environmental point of view, of planning the territory, of boosting economic growth, accessibility or the future of the airport operation in the region of Lisbon and in the country, this option is negative and the refusal to conduct a strategic environmental assessment indicates that its promoters and defenders are fully aware of this. this time, it wasn't the PAN saying it. In fact, it seems obvious. The Strategic Plan of Transport and Infrastructure was, and well, the object of environmental assessment by LNEC ( National Civil Engineering Laboratory ). In the meantime, it has been updated and is referred to in the Court of Auditors audit report, which exist, not three, but six projects in the airport sector. What are these projects? We don't know. Does it include the construction of the new Montijo airport or not? We have no idea. Where is the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Review of the Strategic Transport and Infrastructure Plan, as legally required? In the drawer. And that is how, in view of all, laws are not complied with in Portugal. Then there are subsequent concessions to the will of ANA. The environmental impact study foresees the need to raise the runway to the rate of 5 m in order to circumvent the sea level rise problem in the flood zone where the Montijo airport is expected to be located. Now, even with this adjustment, it is expected that the track, in 2050, will be flooded. ANA claimed with APA on this issue and the answer was essentially « We recommend, you do whatever you want ». In other words, a very important protected habitat is put at risk and the lives of people because of a project whose longevity does not exceed twenty years. There is also no convincing explanation for the fact that for 20 years there have been no clues of less than 2750 m and that of Montijo is expected to have 2140, strongly conditioning the type of planes that will be able to provide there. It should also be noted that the cost of relocation of Montijo’s Air Base 6 is EUR 100 million. Who will bear this cost? The taxpayers? Finally, but no less shocking, the law determines that the approval of the location of the aircraft infrastructure must be approved by all affected municipal chambers — regardless of the district, Mr. Pinotes Batista. in this particular case, of the 10 municipalities affected, only six gave a favorable opinion. And what does the government do in this situation? He announces he'll change the law. [[Protests from PS André Pinotes Batista.]] In other words, in view of the evidence of the project's illegalities, the government wants to make it legal what is not, in order to thus accommodate economic interests that will clearly read out the populations and ecosystems. As you may know, sirs. Members, the law should be general and abstract and should not be amended according to the political convenience of each moment or government. Basically, the government wants to change the law to ignore the legitimate and democratic right to defend the affected populations. It remains to be seen how the PSD will stand on this decision, whether on the side of the government and the economic interests of some, or whether on the side of the preservation of ecosystems and the defence of populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u109	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u110	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The government wants to build an airport which before 2050 may be flooded, in an area of Community importance full of protected species, without security guarantees for the movement of aircraft. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] In addition, Dr. Ana Gomes has already publicly said that perhaps much remains to be known about this choice for the location of the airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u111	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u112	Finally, let us wait for the Montijo Leaks. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u113	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had not thought of dedicating the "liberal minute" now because I thought that so many airport specialists here would exhaust this subject, but this is only when what came to the fire allows me to give Minister Pedro Nuno Santos good news. Since he likes holophotos, Mr. Minister is going to be a screenwriter for the next episodes of this airport novel.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u115	Look, I'm not as greedy as you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u116	This novel has, indeed, been many decades. in one of the last episodes, they decided, by some magical or divine art, that was to be in the Montijo... [[PS protests.]] ... and justify it for two reasons, only: it is faster and has no charge for the public record. But, Minister, you don't have a public record charge, because Vinci is getting ahead. So, as far as this episode is concerned, we're clear about the reasons for this boyfriend. Then we've come to the conclusion...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u117	And that's just what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u118	No, no! It's not just that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u119	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u120	It is because, for that reason, there is a slight detail: you need to change the law, which requires the authorization of the respective authorities. We already know this episode and we also know the following: Parliamentary assessment of this decree-law will be requested. We don't know the following episodes. And because the writer is Mr Minister, I ask: what if the parliamentary assessment leads to a lead of this amendment in the law and thus to a lead of the alternative Montijo?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u121	What do you think? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u122	I don't know. What's yours? Oh, my God! I'm asking you the question, Minister. He's the writer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u123	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u124	Mr. Minister has yet to come in and needs help! What is the script of this novel? The potato is in your hands. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u125	Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to speak for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment of this law has been decided and announced by Vinci and will now be executed by the Government. What the amendment says is that there are municipalities of first and second. Those who agree with the project are heard, those who are against the project will be ignored. That is, there are the municipalities of the Socialist Party and the others. National interest, or party interest? They're going to tell me. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know it was the PSD that sold ANA to Vinci. Now, what we want to know is whether the PSD will defend Vinci's interests again, giving the government a hand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u127	Mr André Pinotes Batista of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Joana Mortágua, I apologize, but we do not accept this division of putting the municipalities against each other. The municipalities are all worth it. [[BE's laughs.]] It may, perhaps, be by the authentic inexperience of the Left Block, but do not want to understand in my words what has not been said. [[BE's protests.]] Madam Member, let me say clearly, eyes in the eyes, you and all those who are in this House: it is not the ANA that dictates the laws of our Republic. It is the Assembly of the Republic that pronounces... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u130	...and it will be to the Assembly of the Republic that a decision should be taken in one way or another. I will repeat: the Socialist Party and the government we support are waterproof to external pressures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u131	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us be clear, the PSD is not the focus of this problem. The PSD, when it was in the government, went out in 2015 and left a solution. Inherited a memorandum and, in that memorandum, a set of alienations, including that of ANA. The question that arises here is that, over almost five years, we are at almost the same point. I only don't say 'in the same' because, in the meantime, half a dozen months ago, the Environmental Impact Study was finally made public, which was a decisive part. So we are long lost, I repeat, we are long lost and, indeed, I regret that my questions have not been answered, because it would be important to understand what happened so that we have come to this point. Whoever created this situation was no distant government, it was this government, and that's the one that has to solve. And it is also symptomatic that, throughout a legislative process, in which there were even agreements signed, written, operating a coalition in this Parliament which was known as the « management », which enabled the government, it does not cease to be symptomatic and even a little humorous for us to verify that the truth is discovered with « the zanga of the comars. » You are all very angry with each other. Have they not had time to organize themselves over four years to solve this problem, which is, in fact, fundamental? The alternative is nothing, and this responsibility must be attributed to the government and the parties that have supported it for five years! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u133	Six months have passed and the position of the PSD is not yet known!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u134	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost at the end of this debate, we understand a few things. On the one hand, PSD says it's not the focus of the problem. Of course, but it's the source of the problem! We have already said that the PSD has decided to privatize, which has been another shocking mistake for our country, and that is why we are doing this debate here. Therefore, speaking of national interest means that they should not have advanced for privatization. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u136	But at the time when they needed solutions to solve a certain problem, the Socialist Party fails across the line and moves forward for a bad solution. And throughout this debate, as well as at other times and in other debates we have had on this matter, the PS has presented an argument that is only blackmail, it is not a valid argument, because it just means continuing blackmail using a supposed national interest, when then it does not realize that what is at stake here is privatization and is in fact not waterproofing about interests. Mr. PS is getting water, because you used that expression twice and we already realize that you are doing a favor to Vinci and not to the country! To conclude, what should be left of this debate is that the law is not altered in favour of certain interests, and when we speak of a strategic project, such as this matter, we cannot ignore the environmental and public health consequences, advancing against everything and against everyone, against municipalities, populations and the environment. Therefore, the position of the Socialist Party is clear here. The Left Block does not agree with it, because we are and have always been on the side of solutions that respect democracy, respect the law, respect the environment and respect Parliament as well. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u137	To conclude the debate, you have the floor for one speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Pinotes Batista, I do not think that it should bring the talk of the 'temperable' on this subject. And I'll tell you why. Who chose the location of the airport? It was the « waterproof ». Who made commitments to Vinci before any environmental impact study? It was the « waterproof ». Who turned to APA and said: « Either the airport is at Montijo or there is no airport! "? It was the 'temperable'! Therefore, I say to you, Mr Pinotes Batista, it is better not to bring the 'temperable', because it will certainly wet! [[PCP's applause and laughter.]] In addition, he spoke in 50 years and was unable to refer to a single study indicating Montijo as being a good location. Not one! It is very 'temperable'! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u139	Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u140	He's sick of saying things that aren't true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u141	By the way, Mr.Minister, I did not say that there were 10 municipalities that were against, said that there were 10 municipalities that were potentially affected, which are those of the Setúbal and Benavente district. However, I note that I did not answer the question I asked you about consulting the National Association of Municipalities when this diploma was changed. Mr Minister, I will also tell you something else: in November, Mr Prime Minister told us that he would respect the existing law, that the process was with the regulator and that after the regulator decided that the government would take some action, if it had to take. But the government will not even wait for the regulator's decision and even see that it will even make the amendment before Vinci delivers the process in the regulator, which is then to have the whole way open, as is appropriate! To that end, I ask you this: what has changed from November to now? Have they managed to convince the PSD if the diploma is required to be subject to a parliamentary assessment? Or are they still in negotiation?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u142	Not yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u143	That's the only thing that justifies that in November, Mr. Prime Minister said something and now Mr. Minister says...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u144	Look at the President of the Barrier Chamber, who's there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u145	On the other hand, about what the government wants to do, that is to change the law to pass over the city's opinions, it reminds me of that citizen who wants to park and has a sign that prohibits it. So, what does the citizen do? Get the signal out of the place, put it in the trunk of the car and you can park now! This is what the government is doing: completely disregarding the authorities! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u146	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on this item on today's agenda. We will now enter the period of political declarations. For a political declaration, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We dedicate our political statement today to a subject that has greatly mobilized civil society — animal protection —, civil society that does not understand a legislator who has been slow in giving an effective response to these matters. The dignity of non-human animals, including their right to life and to physical, psychological and mental integrity, is today an undeniable fact and has been recognized cross-sectionally in society, passing through the scientific, academic or association community. Also in the light of the existing legal framework, animals are no longer considered « things », and today we recognize by our Civil Code that animals are « living beings endowed with sensitivity and object of legal protection because of their nature ». This should involve the creation of a sound legal framework and public policies that are properly adapted to its specificities, in particular the need for measures designed to protect it, rather than allowing incomprehensible exceptions such as bull machia, dog and horse racing, the transport of live animals under absolutely inhuman conditions, among many other examples. More: Every day, reports of maltreatment and abandonment of animals arise, and here we speak not only of dogs and cats, but also of other species, such as horses, who live in greater indignity, who are subjected to ill-treatment, abandonment, deprivation of food, among others, in the sight of all and without anything being done. But if for pets today there is some level of protection, in the case of the other animals the law is totally omitted, making juice to the old orwellian maxim. It can be seen that more than two decades have passed since this House approved the Animal Protection Act in 1995 by the hand of Mr.António Maria Pereira, which prohibits all unjustified violence against all animals and not just a few, and what happens is that Portugal has been slow to respond to the protection that is due to them. In the opposite sense, for example, our neighbor Spain has already criminalized certain practices and behaviours since that time, today there is the punishment of ill-treatment against all animals and not only pets. They have also returned for more than five years since the entry into force of Law No 69 / 2014 which criminalized the ill-treatment and abandonment of pets, it is important to revisit this regime, either with a view to closing their gaps, to strengthen the protection of pets, or to extend it to other animals. The recent news that noted the state in which the dogs of the Tauromáquic knight João Moura were found has come to focus again on crimes against pet animals, exposing the cruel reality to which many animals are subject in our country before the inertia of the competent authorities, in particular the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary. It is recalled that, in the case of João Moura, he kept several chicken dogs in his fifth with obvious signs of undernutrition. They were seized by the criminal police and referred to animal protection associations, the only ones who were able to respond to these animals, and one of the 18 rescued animals did not resist and even died. It was the municipal veterinarian himself who claimed that, despite the animals belonging to a lean race, those in particular were under an acceptable weight. Cases like this of John Moura and his animals are unfortunately not an exception; they are, yes, a reality present throughout our country. Examples of extreme cruelty to pets are known every day. For example, the case of the Roxi bitch, who was killed and beaten up by her former detainee's companion, is seen in a clear demonstration of how the phenomenon of violence against animals is intimately linked to violence against people. Or the case of the dog Simba, in 2016, killed by a neighbor and whose death was worth his aggressor a fine of less than 2000 €. Or more recently, the case of the bitch who was spread out by her own detainee, who had only the application of a suspended penalty! Most processes have deserved no more than archiving or absolution of the defendants. The fact is that, despite the number of accusations brought about by crimes against pet animals, this increase does not result in actual and effective convictions. This is only the sign of increasing sensitivity to the problem of animal abuse, but also of the seriousness and presence of the phenomenon of violence against animals, but this increase does not correspond to the number of sentencing decisions. Acquittals, for example, increased from 18 % in 2017 to 44 % in 2018. In fact, we must go further and extend criminal protection to the protection of the other animals, we cannot continue to ignore the ill-treatment to which they are subjected, remaining blind to this reality. Here I borrow the words of Milan Kundera who, IN the Unsustainable Leveza of the Being, said: "The true moral test of humanity — the most radical, on a level so deep that escapes from our eyes — are the relations with those who are at our mercy: the animals. That is where there is the greatest disarray and deviation of the human being, the fundamental defeat of which all the others take place." We therefore hope to disappoint the words of Milan Kundera and that this House also does not commit this deviation, a moral deviation which has much sacrificed and penalized animals, so often forgotten by our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members have already introduced two NAP initiatives aimed at ensuring greater protection and protection of animals. One of them, Bill No. 183 / XIV / 1. the, aims to strengthen the sanctioning regime applicable to pet animals and to extend protection to susceptible vertebrate animals; the other, the Bill No. 219 / XIV / 1. the, determines the prohibition of dog racing, better known as « chicken races ». These are, therefore, two initiatives that are of the greatest relevance and relevance today, and it is therefore necessary to know whether the honourable Members are present. Members will be available or not to accompany these concerns of the NAP and civil society in order to ensure the protection of animals, which we believe is indeed the most basic justice. [[PAN's applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u148	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u149	I will answer in two rounds, Mr President, one of three requests for clarification and one of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u150	You then have the floor, Mrs Mariana Silva, to make the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, concerns about animal welfare have been on the agenda for the intervention of the Greens over the years through the various legislative initiatives presented in this House. Since the construction of the Basics of Animal Protection Act, in distant VII legislation, which over time, The Greens have given priority to projects to combat violence, crime and animal exploitation. Parliament has therefore, over the years and various legislatures, been creating important legislation on animal welfare. And if it is true that Parliament has not recently agreed on the issues of animal welfare, it is also true that this is a path which, from the perspective of the Greens, it is important to continue to travel, but which cannot leave an assessment of some of the practical consequences of what has been legislated. The Greens continue to say that if the Animal Protection Act is not accompanied by strong awareness-raising programmes, either for the authorities or for the animal-retaining people, we will not be able to evolve. As environmentalists, we always believe in the education and awareness of citizens, but when these campaigns and awareness-raising programmes fail, whether in schools, local power bodies — closest to the population — and in the media bodies, we can continue to aggravate the penalties that something will always fail. For the Greens, it is important for society to know in some detail the practical effects of the application of the most recent laws on animal welfare — what difficulties may be felt in its application, what other problems are being faced, what strengthening of human and technical means has taken place — so that it is perceived whether they are being met, or to what extent the objectives of these laws are being met. It is urgent to take measures to follow up Noé's syndrome, for example, such as rethinking policies or measures for the follow-up of vadium and sylvested dogs. There is still a long way to go, but as long as environmental education is not a reality in Portuguese schools, we will always face problems in this area. Don't you agree, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u152	Also to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Real, I begin by noting that, to some extent, your intervention has much more to do with next week's agenda on these issues, where we can in fact discuss what measures to adopt and improve the criminalization of ill-treatment of pet animals than with a political statement. With regard to the aspects he referred to, I think that his intervention was somewhat unfair, because he did an analysis of « half-empty cup», instead of looking at a very significant set of measures which, in the last two Acts, affected: the amendment of the Civil Code, consecrating animals as being of a different legal nature from things ; the amendment of the Penal Code on this matter twice; the prohibition of the use of wild animals in the circuses; the prohibition of slaughter in dogs; the rules on the purchase and sale of animals. In addition, let me tell you that there is also some injustice in how to address the work that the security forces, such as the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the PSP ( Public Security Police ) and the local authorities have developed with regard to the awareness, prevention and repression of criminal activities that end up producing their effects with pets. In fact, the debate is about giving conditions for the law to be applied, which means reviewing the law and overcoming the technical problems it faces. But this does not mean increasing criminal frameworks, because doing so without looking at the rest of the legal order and without considering how the legal goods protected by criminal law should be cautious to lead us to results that we would surely find contradictory. We cannot put the protection of animal welfare differently and treat it above that which is the protection that is sometimes given to people and goods, disregarding the rest of the legal order and the Criminal Code. That is why it is difficult to look at the debate, thinking that, by increasing the criminal frameworks, we will solve all the problems when, in fact, it would not be so. In addition, it is also strange to say that by changing the law, we will increase convictions. This role is not of Parliament, it is of the courts, and if there are more absolutions, it is because there was not sufficient proof to ensure condemnation. So, as I say, this debate, essentially, will take place next week around clarifications of the criminal code regime. The Socialist Party will be present in this debate, seeking precisely to look at what has failed in the legislation and which can be improved, clarifying that the death of the animal is also punishable by the attempt and clarification of the regime of neglect, exacerbating the frames — yes, when justified — depending on the result, improving the frame of ancillary sanctions, clarifying the situation of errance and having protective measures. But this is a debate of a legislative nature, which should not be confused with what...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u154	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll finish. As I said, this debate should not be confused with the hot reaction to the news that shocks us all, that we all reject, but for which the Portuguese legal order, since 2014, has a very clear answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u156	Mr António Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the PSD is in favour of animal welfare and repudiates any violence against animals. In fact, in this matter, we have gone and continue to be pioneers. We have already entered in this Parliament a bill that allows to punish with a sentence up to 3 years in prison who kills a pet and in 2013 we built Law No. 69 / 2014, amending the Penal Code to punish the ill-treatment of pets. Therefore, the PSD is pioneer in this issue, it is not forgotten and it is concerned, but it is not an exaggerated concern, because there are priorities, which are people and not animals, and the PSD does not reverse priorities. I'd like to have seen the NAP use the same time he used in the gallery to talk about people. I would like to have heard about, for example, that Portuguese who died in the emergency service, waiting to be attended. I would like to have heard the NAP talk about the 600 000 Portuguese who do not have a family doctor or support for the elderly. No, the PAN talks about the Roxi dog and the Simba dog. And what do you say to Joseph and Mary, who have been at home for years, waiting for surgery? Oh, my God! Or, then, what about the school your child attends, which one does not have employees? Oh, my God! The ideology of the NAP is one and only one: try to end through the law with livestock production in Portugal. [[PAN's laughs.]] This is what the NAP wants: to end livestock production, to end the rural world, to end years of tradition in Portugal. We have no doubt! So the NAP only talks about animals, forgetting people. The PSD does not forget people, not forgetting to worry about animals as well. Therefore, we see with great concern the extremism and populism of the NAP, which uses a bad episode of animal abuse to avenge its ideology, putting animals in front of people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u158	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor to answer this first group of requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u159	Mr President, I would like to start with the last statement, because Mr Ventura is wrong. It is that when we talk about animals that are subjected to violence, we are also talking about people, because when the animals are at risk, people are also at risk, Mr. As far as the Roxi dog is concerned, I would like to know what Mr would say to the holder of this animal, who was a victim of domestic violence and who was obliged to witness these acts against the animal itself as a form of aggression to himself. When we talk about protecting animals, we're also talking about protecting people. When we talk about sentences passed on trial in which it is proven that there were children forced to kill their pets themselves and we say that we need to strengthen the animal protection framework, we are also talking about people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u160	That doesn't matter at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u161	But we could only be talking about animals, Mr Deputies, because in the 21st century animal protection is also part of the humanitarian values that must concern us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u163	I understand that you don't know. In fact, the honourable Member has interests in livestock,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u164	He's got interests and he's not recording them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u165	...so you shouldn't even be defending what you just defended. With regard to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, there is indeed a disparity between us. In addition to finding that the subject we have brought the debate is not exhausted from the projects that we are going to discuss next week, but there is a political debate that has to be done about how animals are being treated in our country — and that is what we are talking about today — the existing regime needs to be clarified. Not only does this regime not have applicability due to the difficulty of applying the concepts, as we cannot agree with the criminal framework, Mr Deputies, because if I damage your phone today, crime and criminal framework are more serious — and you know that — than if I mistreat your dog. Therefore, given the collision of legal goods present here, the NAP will present an initiative next week and we will be here to discuss it. There is, in fact, a debate that needs to be extended and we will not be prevented from clarifying what we consider to be a matter of greater dignity. Mrs Mariana Silva, for what she referred to, although there is legislation in our country, as I said, because she is quite dispersed, looks like a blanket of flaps. Not only must there be an assessment — we agree and understand the goodness of this initiative — but we also urgently need to revisit the current regime. We cannot continue to leave impunity for crimes against animals that have shocked and shocked the whole country. Today, kicking a horse does not have any criminal dignity, but kicking a pet may already have. Therefore, this inconsistency of our legal order must finally have an answer by the judge. We do not confuse this, for example, with « accumulation », which is a legitimate case which should be portrayed at home in a working group. In addition to, of course, there is a need to revisit these amendments, there are also procedures that should facilitate the operation of the authorities themselves. The criminal trial has never been reviewed and this is one of the differences that we are going to discuss next week. The truth is, if there is this protection for pets, for the rest there is nothing. We cannot continue to have a country without a king or a rock in relation to ill-treatment of pets or animals of any kind. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u166	We will continue with requests for clarification. To this end, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a necessary legislative amendment, which is a very important step forward in dealing with animal abuse. This advance was achieved in 2014 and allows us, for example, today, to talk about the crime of mistreatment of animals for which the Tauromáquic knight João Moura Dias was arrested. It is now clear that this advance, which was guaranteed five years ago, needs further deepening. We have worked and have warned about this in recent legislatures, even because we are talking about a prospect of aggression and violence. We are talking not only about animal welfare but also about how society views this type of animal treatment. Protection against aggressiveness and violence should be taken into account for all animals, in any circumstance. The definition of these concepts, the rigour of law and its best application must indeed be guaranteed. In fact, there are opinions, either of the entities applying the law, or of the Public Prosecutor's Office, that defend these amendments so that there is greater rigour in the possibility of implementing the law. This is for us, the Assembly of the Republic, it is true, and it will be discussed next week. We cannot work in error and say that in the case of John Moura Dias — and in other cases, when it comes to pets — this behaviour is no longer punishable. It is, yes, punishable, must be punished and we must work to ensure that this punishment is carried out. What is needed is to realize that most of us have in the Assembly of the Republic. We know which parties have worked in this regard and which have presented bills to advance, in order to ensure that the concepts, rigour and animal welfare become a concern of all parliamentary groups and not only of the same benches. The Left Block and the PAN have done so very well and have been followed by other parliamentary groups, but in fact there are already five years, and I assume that the honourable Member is coming forward with a review of the law on animal abuse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u168	Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u169	Mr President, it is clear that what has come to the public this week has shocked us all, and the CFP accompanies the concerns that arise in the face of animal abuse. The truth is that measures to combat ill-treatment and abandonment must be eminently preventive. Instead, the path of criminalization was adopted, without taking steps towards raising social and environmental awareness, tending to a harmonious relationship between the human being and the surrounding environment, particularly with the animals. The criminal procedure seems to legitimize the lack of action against the problem of ill-treatment and manifests itself notoriously ineffective. Regardless of this, we are convinced that the existing legal framework will apply in the specific case referred to in the NAP. It is consensual to the need for social and legal censorship of behaviors that mistreat animals, but this must be done by responsible, firstly, the State, which must create a culture of respect for the other forms of life, prevent and control indignant situations. For this reason, the CFP has sought to intervene in what seems to us to be really decisive and efficient: so it was with the animal collection centres, a proposal of the CFP, which we continue to follow, with attention to its shortcomings; so it was with the end of the indiscriminate slaughter in cans; this is with the proposal to extend sterilization as the main way to reduce the population of errant animals; so it was with the animals in zoos and with those used in spectacles, in which legislation that now awaits regulation of the Government was adopted. Public responders, particularly municipal veterinarians, are needed to ensure that they are not only conciliated health authorities but also that families are able to take their animals to the veterinarian. Measures and actions are needed, in the educational and pedagogical context, to promote animal welfare and concern for the environment. Means are needed to ensure that existing legislation is met, particularly at the level of INIAV ( National Institute for Agrarian and Veterinary Research ), DGAV, ICNF ( Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests) or SEPNA ( Nature and Environment Protection Service ). We ask whether they are available to advance awareness, prevention and supervision, strengthening the means to do so, rather than kicking the problem into the Criminal Code. What moves us is to avoid abuse, not act later, when evil is already done, and for that the NAP has no solutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u170	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u171	Mr President, I would begin by replying to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, saying that a work has in fact been done to strengthen this matter. We also give a positive note to the project that the Block presented, however, as the NAP, in order to extend the criminalization of abuse to other animals that not only those of company. We hope that the remaining political parties will indeed accompany us in this wish. The way society organizes itself and seeks to combat certain phenomena, such as violence, says a lot about what our evolutionary state is. Therefore, violence, whether against people or animals, is a public health problem and is therefore a problem that must be seriously looked at by the Assembly of the Republic. As Mrs Maria Manuel Rola also mentioned, there are several entities that agree with these amendments, from the Higher Council of Magistracy to the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. I would also like to clarify that, when I mentioned the case of John Moura, I did not do so in the sense that the law does not apply to it, on the contrary, but rather has come to expose and leave here naked an extremely cruel reality, which has passed impunity in our country and without any supervision. Mrs Alma Rivera, on the questions she raised, particularly on preventive function, I cannot fail to mention that criminal law also performs this function and, contrary to what the CFP has now invoked, the NAP brings solutions to animal protection in our country. In fact, I remember that it was precisely the NAP that came for the first time to bring these concerns to the political agenda and put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u172	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u173	More: the honourable Member also mentioned recently that the slaughters in the municipal canes were banned. It was a petition, a citizen's legislative initiative, which collected more than 80 000 signatures, which promoted this legislative amendment. The CFP has drawn this initiative, but it is given credit to the right-wing, which were the associations that have mobilized and which have so often replaced the State in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u174	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u175	In fact, for this reason the NAP is present, and what we expect is that we can work together so that this House, once and for all, can look at this subject with the seriousness it deserves us. It makes no sense that there are acts of extreme violence and cruelty practiced in our country and that we continue to close our eyes. The neighbouring Spain has today a Criminal Code that criminalizes all animal conduct, whether they are of company or not. Therefore, we do not understand how they cannot understand that, in fact, the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law have a very important end in our Code of Law and in our society. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u176	You now have the floor for a political statement, Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We can make political life by following the path of regret or by looking forward to the problems that we have to solve. The questions of the interior, of the development of two thirds of our territory, have been far from the main decisions, confirm a country dislodged, on the path of desertification and depopulation. The question that arises is very simple: were the many investments in highways, in educational equipment, in supply for older people or in urban quality enough to hold people in such a country from the depressed territories? The answer does not lack scientific confirmation, it is felt intuitively: no, it was not. What will you do to return to the human occupation of the territory? The answer requires care and should be looked without demagogy. There are those who say that only the city is free. And in today's global reading about the city is really diffuse. What happens in the depressed territories of our country is the feeling that they have become a garden, but not a future. Between Bragança and Faro, only one municipality has close to 100,000 inhabitants, Viseu. However, if we consider that a territory can only be balanced if it contemplates development anchorages—and these anchorages are cities with more than 75 000 inhabitants, which have a diversity of activities and responses that include the fixing of elites and the existence of a diversified job offer— none of the other interior councils seem to be able to guarantee the future. This is the scenario and this is the challenge — no one will forgive us if, in this decade when we enter, we do not do everything to make Portugal a balanced country again, now not balanced population but poor, but balanced and with opportunities for everyone, wherever they are. Mr President, the uncertain framework in which we live lacks politics and politicians who know how to implement it. The worst thing we could do was build policies inside with the head made of centralism, the mind caught up with ideas made of a certain neocolonialism and a sort of new literacy campaigns.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u179	It would be dramatic that way. There are policies that can be successful in the long term only if they are gripped by the creative and critical power of the regions, which is the greatest angle of all that we face. The time we live recommends that we not move forward with the new regionalisation process. And the next few days must question us about the kind of decentralization we want to make by looking at the territories so disparate and with such opposite dimensions. But we cannot help but bet on the government's political proposal to launch a new process of regional affirmation from the Regional Coordination Committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u181	The election by the autoarchs is not, in itself, Colombo's egg, but may be the new stage of a power closer, fairer and more capable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor can we underestimate the proximity of the government to the territories. The existence of clear sectoral agendas, such as those seen in the coming days in the Northeast Transmontano, is absolutely essential. We are in the presence of a single reading about the country, a governance removed from the castrative processes of decision-making centers. Everyone noticed the change in government stance. In all municipalities there must be essential services: courts, conservatories, finance services, schools of the national network, proximity health services, local social support services, agrarian extension and animal support, postal services guaranteed by the dealership and with quality and financial services guaranteed by the public bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this has to be guaranteed and goes to the back of previous government decisions where the criterion has always been the economic one. The country is indebted to the current government for this relevant investment of priorities that we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u183	But there is still another and new way. The four dds that the government has assumed — demographics, inequalities, decarbonisation and digitisation — sit as a glove in the challenges facing the country that we want to save. I have already talked about the need to do everything so that we can build cities with more than 75 000 inhabitants in 15 years' time, in addition to Viseu, this is already a great city. I have already talked about the need to create companies and jobs with high technical and scientific requirements, because that is the only way to reduce the most demanding inequalities. And I am talking now about the immense agricultural and forestry potential for the CO2 markets and the energy resources of the interior which cannot result in a mining perspective as happened in the New State. There is also another obligation that must be assumed here: the internal country must urgently move from 3G to 5G, a decisive condition for competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there are very relevant decisions that always matter. The third and most significant reduction of tolls in the motorways of the interior, today announced, is a decisive measure, essential for the development of the country and that should be welcomed here. She shows there's a way. The government has been able to interpret the feelings of those who fear not to go to big cities. Portugal can continue to ensure better, more balanced and fairer following this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u184	Four Members are registered to request clarification. In the meantime, Mr Ascenso Simões has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Ascenso Simões, over the decades policies have been contrary to the real needs of the interior, recalling deficits, budgetary treaties and stability pacts, among other arguments of merely economical charis. The de-investment in infrastructure and equipment, the closure of public services, such as schools, health centres, agrarian areas, security forces posts, CTT stations, courts, the lack of support for agriculture, in particular family agriculture, and so many other services associated with the reduced and non-existent supply of public public transport and the application of tolls in the former SCUT have served to push people to major urban centres, in particular to the coast. Mr President, the central question is this: how many public services will open? The presence of people in the rural world and their activities are the guarantor of the management of this territory and of fire prevention, which have engulfed our country as a result of climate change associated with the disorder and abandonment of the territory, as well as the growing and extensive areas of eucalyptus monoculture, linked to the interests of cells. We still do not see investments in public services and support for micro and small businesses, family farming. The interior has not been seen as an area of valorisation, but above all as an area of exploitation and delapidation, such as the construction of dams for the benefit of electrical companies or now, with great pressure for the mining of the interior to explore lithium in particular, leaving the economic, social and environmental impacts negative to the local populations, even if these populations oppose these projects. The government is flagging with some support for those who work indoors. Although these incentives are important, they cannot erupt the core of the issue, which undoubtedly guarantees the dignified conditions for those who have always lived inside and have contributed to its dynamics and its maintenance and enhancement. That is why, Mr President, I leave you with more questions. First, what measures will the government implement in the short and medium term to achieve the status of family farming? Secondly, it is essential to increase and improve the supply of collective public transport within, offer this small and almost non-existent. What measures will be implemented to increase the supply of public transport within the country? And now, Mr. Member, since you spoke of Viseu,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u186	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u187	I really am concluding, Mr President. Since Mr. Ascenso Simões spoke of Viseu, I ask him: when will we see the Viseu hospital in conditions for these people who live there? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u188	In the meantime, another Member was appointed to ask for clarification. Mr José Maria Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly a Socialist Party that has given up on regionalization that brings us here a set of measures rather than accompaniment, which is one of those who does not understand regionalisation as the possibility of making the corrections that we all know and that are recognised as a whole. And the Socialist Party appears to us with two questions that should be recorded as data. First, the symbolic value of making a Council of Ministers in Bragança as if it were important alone, which is not, if not accompanied by appropriate measures. And these measures have to settle in a joint way. Nor is it to tell us that a reduction in toll rates is made on the highways — or on the SCUTs, better by saying — but it is no doubt to walk ever more towards reducing the totality of these same tolls, because that is what should be defended and that is why the Socialist Party should commit itself. On the other hand, this is a set of measures that were already part of the program of appreciation of the interior and which have never been implemented to date. I therefore ask Mr Ascenso Simões whether or not it is time to return services. Over the course of this century, services were withdrawn to these populations, from schools, health centres, balconies of the General Deposit Box, among other public services. My question is whether or not it is the intention of the Socialist Party to restore and restore these services? Until we, Block Left, presented here last week a program of reopening public services that was plunged by the Socialist Party. In fact, this initiative served as a lever for the recovery of much of what are the reasons and incentives to create conditions so that many people return to these territories. There was still another project that we presented here, on the strategic plan for the development of the interior, which was plunged by the Socialist Party. It is a project that does not have to do with unnecessary measures or circumstantial measures, but with an integrated plan that questions what it is necessary to do, on the one hand, to recover these spaces and, on the other hand, to innovate, create and have measures that will specifically respond to needs. For example, what is the role of medium cities as intermediate and intermediate forms between large centers and low density centers? What role can many of these cities and many of these localities play in actively participating in the desire, logical and obvious, of decarbonization, of the need to create a transition? Is the Socialist Party prepared to create, on the one hand, an energy transition and, on the other hand, agroforestry capable of responding to the need to create a new paradigm, for which it is important that these territories contribute, creating conditions for living in a more dignified way? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u190	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u191	Mr President, Mr Ascenso Simões, before the political statement which has produced us here, it is confirmed once again that what the CFP has long identified: that the PS and its Government, like decades of right-wing policy, continues on the path of policies avulden inwards. What the interior and the rural world need, more than audacious and isolated measures, as you have mentioned here, is a strategy that sets out for the development of the productive sectors, quality public services, transport and accessibility under conditions, employment and rights to fix the population and allow the balanced development of the territories and for the lack of proposals that truly respond to the needs of the interior we have not gone there. On the PCP side, we've done our job. of the many proposals that we have put forward, I give you as an example the implementation of regionalisation; support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; support for family agriculture; investment in public services, which are a fundamental instrument for the realization of social rights, without which it is not possible to develop the country. These measures, if approved, would create conditions for the effective development of the most disadvantaged regions. And they were not only approved because the PS did not want to, since it had and has political and economic conditions to do so. The honourable Member has come here to talk about a process of decentralisation based on the CCDRs. over the years, we have heard that RCDs are a step towards regionalization, but what, in fact, they are an obstacle to effective regionalization. In addition, last week, the PS had the opportunity to approve the real policy of balanced development of the territory — the creation of administrative regions — and, see, voted against! As regards micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent the majority of the business fabric of the interior, what they claim is that the costs of production factors are lowered, from the point of view of energy costs. And, Mr President, in the light of the CFP's proposal to reduce energy VAT to 6 %, what would result in an effective low electricity prices with the consequent improvement in the quality of life of the population and also with advantages for the treasury of the companies, how did the PS stand? He voted against! It is appropriate to say: the PS wants more to appear than actually being a defender of territorial cohesion. I ask, Mr Ascenso Simões: how does it justify that when the CFP presents proposals and measures that truly promote territorial cohesion, the PS votes against?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u192	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u193	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask: how does the PS want to promote the development of the interior without measures and support, without services and without public investments that have been missing for so many years? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u194	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u195	Mr President, Mr Ascenso Simões, the level of regional asymmetries Portugal presents is not the same in a developed country and the great beneficiary of the cohesion funds of the European Union, and that is one of the greatest failures of our democracy. in other areas, we have seen the creation by the government of a multiplicity of programmes — programmes of appreciation of the interior — with appreciable, generic measures and insufficient solutions that have not reversed the gap between the coast and the interior. The Government of the Socialist Party created, in five years, a mission unit, first converted into a state secretary and now into a ministry. Believing the good intentions of the government, we would say « now it will be! It was not the small one that characterizes the action of the government in this matter. As far as territorial cohesion is concerned, this government has been uncoherent because it claims to have the interior as a priority, but does the opposite of chumbar all the proposals submitted by the PSD, which would promote territorial cohesion and the enhancement of the interior territories. It was made clear in Mr Ascenso Simões' speech that the balance sheet for the PS and for the government is always pink. In fact, he now speaks of several means of changes in the costs of tolls, but his intervention focused, above all, on the past and on intentions, so our balance is negative, because the interior has seen to accentuate its depopulation and delay its development. Mr President, let us see some of the proposals that you have put forward over the last five years and which are being postponed: how many public services have been transferred to the interior? How many state files have been transferred to the inside? How many public sector workers have benefited from the pay supplement because they have moved their workplace to the interior? How many priority development operations have been implemented in the last two years? How many new ICT competency centres ( CCTIC ) have opened inside in the last two years? In fact, I can say that the answer is: none! In which city of the interior was the promised information management and data science centre set up in order to support companies? These are the issues I would like to ask. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u196	To request clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u197	Mr President, Mr Ascenso Simões, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and tell you that the human occupation of the territory is of concern to us all. The honourable Member spoke with a great deal of relevance about the matter, but I would like to say to him that, when he went to the publicity stage, he spoke with less relevance and, in this sense, he would like me to clarify some doubts. The first is about decentralization and the intention of the PS to do through the CCDRs, or the indirect election of the CCDRs, of the election by autarchs. I would like to know whether the former priority, which was to be decentralization through the transfer of competences to municipalities, will remain in'cod water' or whether you are available to correct the path, because there are many authorities, including large PS authorities, who continue to fail to accept competences—and without accepting it for a reason, as is obvious—and if what they want with the indirect election of the CCDRs is to walk towards a model of regionalization. It's just that, Mr. Deputies, I haven't figured out what the PS wants yet. On the one hand, regionalisation, on the other hand, does not want regionalisation; on the other hand, decentralization, on the other hand, wants to bet on this strange model of indirect election of the CCDRs. In fact, the only thing I understand is that the PS wants everything but a reference to regionalization and the only thing I have to tell you about this is that if they want to move forward towards regionalization, either clearly or simply with a referendum, and that is what they will have to do. I would also like to ask you, a little away from the ads, if you have any information you can give us about the National Program for Territorial Cohesion and the Interior Valuation Program, because very varied measures that are planned there are not yet implemented in the concrete life of people. Would it not be a good idea to put them into practice first and then come to announce new plans? I would also like to know, in relation to the reopening of public services, why some of the courts that have been reopened have less than one civil judgment per month. Is this measure no longer "for English to see" than "for Portuguese to live"?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u198	You want to put people in court? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u199	Finally, I have heard a lot about public services and I would like to say to you, Mr President, that there is only one key to the development of the territories, either from the coast or from the interior: initiative, private initiative. I would like to ask you whether the creation of new taxes, such as the tax on cellulose and on forestry, will not go in the opposite direction of what the interior really needs so that the people who work there and produce there can live according to what they produce. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u200	Not that it was just to make five trials a year, the courts have to be inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u201	To reply, Mr Ascenso Simões has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u202	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the questions put forward and for the interventions that have been made. Perhaps the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in asking me to do this, had in mind that the internal issues should unite us more than separate us, and I think this Parliament should look at them carefully and without political demagogy. We may have a lot of differences, and we are sure, but the situation is really serious. And for a serious, emergency situation, we must find solutions that involve almost all parties or all political parties, if possible. The first relevant thing is that we are in a process of decentralization, and this process cannot stop, that is, we believe in local authorities, as we have always believed, since Law No. 79 / 77 and since Law No. 1 / 79, the first Law of Local Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u204	It was with the Socialist Party in 1976, in 1979, in 1984, in 1997 and 1998, that the great transformation of local democratic power was made, and also with the Socialist Party that the great process of developing the transfer of competences to the authorities would be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The question that Mrs Cecilia Meireles puts in relation to the courts and that there can be only one trial leads me to think that Mrs Cecilia Meireles wants to extinguish the conservatory if only one person is born in a municipality. If only one person is born, how close is it to happen, for example in Vinhais or Vimios, we will also close the conservatories, because only one person is born in these councils? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, the principle is not closing; the principle is maintaining, in the 308 municipalities, the conditions and central public services so that they continue to be municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u206	What the Government has done that Mrs Deputies has supported and that Mr Mendes has also supported, despite being President of the House at that time, was to initiate the process of unconditional extinction of services. What we are doing with the first measure is: there is no extinction of services and there is placement of services within the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think these issues should be supported by the PSD and the CDS. On crumbs and towels, Mr. Jorge Mendes came here to say "ah, that's a few crumbs...". Now, a person who goes from Keys to Vila Real pays €248 and starts paying €198. If you think this is a piece of cake, then I gladly accept that you will give me as many crumbs as the inhabitants of my district! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In Via do Infante, a class 4 car, which pays €1332 / month, will pay €733, i.e., will save €599. If you think that this is a piece of cake, my dear friend, then your salary must be a huge salary in addition to your salary as a member! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Dias, the Socialist Party is always accused of right-wing policies. The two of us have already made a left-wing policy, mostly passed on the left. And it was the result!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u207	In the State budget it was not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u208	Therefore, this accusation that the Socialist Party only makes agreements with the right is in your case, and for me, a mistake. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is speaking in regionalization. What I want to tell you is that regionalization did not come out of the Socialist Party Programme. What we want is to make a process that is added to the territory and that has as wide support as possible from the Portuguese. Doing a process that would be an artificial process at the moment and not yet sustained would be incorrect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u209	We should look at specificity, as I said,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u210	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u211	... of the territories and we will find solutions according to the territories. Mr José Maria Cardoso had already brought a written paper and, therefore, he forgot what I said about the medium cities and also about environmental services. I would advise the honourable Member not to bring written paper, because I recognize that he is capable of speaking suddenly and of saying much more important things, which may be taken into account, than what he was asked to say. Finally, Mrs Mariana Silva, on the closure of public services, support for companies, then the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u212	Family support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u213	I'll be right there. So, was it forgotten by the ENP that the Socialist Party recovered an old tax benefit measure for the businesses of the interior, in a budget that you supported? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, then, does the ENP forget about the good things that also help to do for the country? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like the ENP not to forget the good things it helps to do for the country, especially for the interior.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u214	Mr President, you are going to have to conclude, because it has already exceeded the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u215	In conclusion, Mr President, because this answer is very important, I would say: Mrs Deputy, there are now new competitions for public transport concessions, which will have a local and regional integration perspective that guarantees the issues raised. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u216	You haven't answered the questions yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u217	Let's move on to the PSD policy statement. Mrs. Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Citizens: Over the past three years, we have seen the rise of Lisbon to the top of global real estate markets, followed closely by the surrounding metropolitan area and Porto. This phenomenon, associated with the low interest rates offered by Europe, fed the speculative rise in the market in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The speculation made the owners, who saw their goods increase in value, and made the government even happier, who collected, on the construction sector and on the real estate sector, a record value of taxes. They called this 'economic miracle', recovering an expression from the 19th century that invokes the ability that speculation has to value a product without doing anything but waiting for natural fluctuations in the market. But if, on the one hand, those who had property taxed and were happy, on the other hand, speculation removed people without property from access to housing. To deal with these growing inequalities, the State had an obligation: to provide abandoned public properties. He didn't. It was either by choice or by lack of capacity, the truth is that four years have passed and it has not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u219	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u220	Incentives, regulation, subsidies were used, but the good management of state properties was out of the way, which is the instrument with less cost and with greater potential to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u221	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u222	Now, in the State budget for 2020, around EUR 150 million is allocated for housing. But what does EUR 150 million mean when compared with the value of State property in residential emergency areas? Imagine that a single plot of New Bank, in the Lovers, is valued at 150 million euros. A single land in Lisbon is equivalent to the total value of the State Budget for housing throughout the country by 2020. Well, how do we do this? How do we put the properties out here? The first step is to draw up a map of state properties and make it public, with information about whether or not they are empty. The transparent publication of this information should be accompanied by an estimate of the value of these properties and information on whom they are being sold. This is the real value that the State has in its hands to build a real housing policy. Without this first step, without making a map of state properties, we did not even start trying to operationalize the National Housing Programme, a transparent, fair and capable program to serve people. The second step is to confirm whether or not the housing deficiencies are in these properties, according to the urban conditions of this territory. And what's the third step? The third step is to make property available to people without a single euro in the State budget. How is this done? Building, for each property, a range of incomes of different values in order to cover the possible loan provision for construction or rehabilitation, thus ensuring that we will not leave financial holes for future generations; thinking of building, property, avoiding the dilutions of risk that led to the real estate crisis in 2008; placing on the market the properties by the way that it occurs more efficiently, either directly by the State, or by partnerships with privates, constituting 99-year leases, to the image of the British leasehold. Whatever it is, learning from the errors of Berlin after reunification, where the great lesson was that no public property is sold. Sell short-term relief, but remove the margin to respond to speculative peaks. The program that the government presented to us, called the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, began by identifying public buildings in 2016, but the fact is that, over four years, it failed to put a single building on the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u223	It's the usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u224	In addition to completely inoperative, it appears designed to dilute the risks between operations and to circumvent the Court of Auditors. So you've got everything to go wrong. The so-called program 1. the law gave proof of life in 2019. It delivered EUR 18 million to the City Council of Lisbon to implement its housing policy, the same House which, by that time, gave EUR 57 million to social security for 11 abandoned buildings. Now, if the House had 40 million and social security had 11 buildings, what would it make sense for the House to do the works and put the buildings on the market? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u225	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u226	Where is the role of the government and 1. the law in this housing policy? Recapitulating,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u227	It's better, it's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u228	... the first step to a national housing policy is to map state properties and make it public, the second step is to make properties compatible with the needs and the third step is to put properties on the market, without selling and without any euro in the State budget. If, in addition to this economic sustainability, we can guarantee the environmental sustainability of the building, building buildings with certificates of sustainability, and if we can also have guaranteed social sustainability, with inclusive communities guaranteed by the range of certified incomes, we will finally be walking towards the construction of cities with future. More transparency, more competence, more enforcement. Is it that hard? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u229	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to try to sign up for clarification during the speech of the speaker, because when the honourable Member has finished the speech there are no entries yet. [[Pause.]] Now there are three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u230	They only understood after the repetition, at the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u231	Madam Member, how do you intend to respond to these requests for clarification?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u232	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u233	All right. So Mr Bruno Dias has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Filipa Roseta, I would like to begin by saying that we appreciate very much the concern that the honourable Member has brought to this plenary session about this phenomenon of real estate speculation, which is spreading in the country more and more seriously, and the implications and consequences for the population that this real estate speculation is bringing to the day-to-day era of cities and regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u235	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u236	In fact, let me tell you, the PSD had this concern about real estate speculation and the implications for the policy of housing decisions that are made and surely the laws that have been passed and that are ruinous to the country and to the populations would be different...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u237	Which ones? Which ones?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u238	...and we would be having a situation quite different today from that in which we are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u239	But the PCP over the past four years has changed everything! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u240	Therefore, when the PSD and the CDS approved the familiar « Law Cristals », the familiar law of evictions, it would certainly have missed much the necessary concern that the honourable Member brought here and that we valued. The concern about real estate speculation should make sense, when we are still going in time to avoid and fight, it is not after seeing the problems. In her speech, she defended a measure which, to be approved, would make a huge difference, that of the mobilization and use of the building heritage, public, from the outset with housing skills—because that is what we are talking about, obviously—to respond to the problems that exist in Lisbon and not only. The CFP proposed this measure when it presented a proposal for an amendment to an article in the State budget. In our proposal we needed exactly this measure, ensuring that these buildings could not be transferred to external entities and that they should be made available for housing supply in supported income, conditional income schemes, etc. It is unfortunate that the PS and PSD have given their hands to reject this proposal. The question that we would like to ask you is the following: to what extent does the PSD consider to be justified in conjunction with the PS?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u241	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u242	Finally, Mr President, I would also like to address a problem which the honourable Member referred to in a particularly critical way in relation to resettlement policies and the guarantee of housing for the people, with the example of programme 1. o Law. Question : On what basis was the PSD based to lead the proposals presented by the CFP and which aimed to strengthen both the resettlement policies and the support for the lease for young people, with the question of the Porta 65 programme?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u243	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u244	In conclusion, Mr President, on this point: what position will the PSD have when the CFP's proposal for the impermenability of permanent housing is being discussed, a fundamental issue which is now put to the people, particularly in relation to the financial sector and real estate speculation? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u245	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u246	Mr President, Mrs Filipa Roseta, I must say that I am surprised and I do not know whether the honourable Member is on the bench where she should be, because we had these discussions several times in the previous Parliament and the PSD has lost by absence. In fact, we have adopted here an essential measure, called the Housing Bases Act, which the honourable Member must know and which refers to several of the issues it raises, but against which the PSD voted. The question here is that, at the moment, Mrs Filipa Roseta defends things that in the past the PSD did not defend. What I'd like to know is whether the PSD has come to defend the Housing Bases Law and to want to know about the people who now have their right to damaged housing. On this issue, what you often heard was about the right to property, that the honourable Member spoke so much at the beginning and that, in fact, they also spoke here during the last legislature. I also tell you that you have a chance to mobilize the public heritage for housing responses, sufficient to vote in favour of the draft resolution presented by the Left Block in this House. First, because this is an essential project, but which was not made reality by the PSD while it was in power — in any of the 40 years we have of democracy this was a concern of the PSD — and then because the PSD also destroyed the public housing park. Consider the case of Loyalty, for example, with the number of people who are currently opposed to the renewal of their housing contract by virtue of the PSD and the CDS, which have now privatized it. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] Mrs Filipa Roseta, having come to this problem, would also like to ask whether they are willing to reverse the total liberalisation that they have worked on the lease law. This, yes, is also one of the main problems that has been brought to the issue of housing while the PSD was government. at this time, as you will know, the lease law allows quite small contracts that do not guarantee the right to housing over the years, as should be guaranteed. Finally, once again, be welcome, Your Honor. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u247	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Filipa Roseta, first of all, I would like to associate myself with my thanks for the subject which is obviously of great relevance to us and which now seems to have a partner in the PSD regarding the promotion of public housing policies, which we are all grateful for because we are all important in this debate. After years of deresponsibility of the State, it is indeed important that we all assume responsibility for this which is a fundamental pillar of the democratic rule of law and, in this field, unlike the PSD, the Socialist Party can be proud of what it has done in the last four years for public housing policies. [[All right!]] It is that our objectives were and are very clear, i.e. to hold the State accountable for the housing response, to bet on a public housing park, to prioritize public investment in housing, to prevent abusive market practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u249	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u250	And our measures were and are very concrete. There is a new generation of public housing policies, with concrete measures for the middle class and for the most deprived families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u251	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u252	There is a new Housing Base Act which, as has already been mentioned, was passed with the vote in favour of the Socialist Party and the parties on our left but which had the vote against the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u253	Well remembered! In fact, it was regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u254	And there is also the National Fund for Rehabilitation of the Building which is an important tool for promoting public housing policy and public housing park.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u255	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, the results are already in sight. They are not a utopia. In programme 1. the law already has 154 municipalities with local housing strategies developed or approved, which corresponds to more than half of the housing solutions we want until 2024, and in the affordable lease for the middle classes we already have hundreds of identified properties that will allow, in the short term, to give hundreds of housing fires to the Portuguese population. [[PSD protests.]] The bases are built, the policies are being implemented. Is that enough? It's not enough! There is much work ahead and the Socialist Party is the first to recognize it. But the way is indeed this: to give a response to the people either through public housing policies or through a significant public housing park. So, Mrs. Member, what was the question to you: which of the PSDs are we talking to here? Are we talking to the PSD that you've been in the government and that you haven't done anything for four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u258	Are we talking to a PSD who for four years has been in opposition and has not accompanied any of the measures that promoted public housing policies? [[PSD protests.]] Or we are now talking about a new PSD that—and well! — does the debate come and bring concrete measures to effectively promote public housing policies? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u259	You have the floor to answer these three requests for clarification, Mrs Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u260	I am very grateful for your pleas and, for now, I am also grateful for the fact that you really like me here. Therefore, I thank you for your commendations and your participations. I'm glad you're happy you're here. You are talking to the best of PSDs, you are talking to the PSD that will be government in the next legislature. [[PSD applause.]] On the issue of the lease law, let us clarify one point. I shall read Article 3 to you. that of the Housing Bases Act : « The State is the guarantor of the right to housing».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u261	After all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u262	They're not private owners!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u263	It's got a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u264	The only thing you did was push the duties of the house to the private. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] It was the only thing you guys did! Now, what did the PS do? Absolutely nothing! Mrs. Deputy just talked about uprisings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u265	And what have you done for the public housing?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u266	They had four years to make surveys and yet they are not public, I repeat, they are not public. How is that possible? Oh, my God! Four years later! Dear ones, this is how I sincerely believe that we all think this is logical: the state has empty properties, people need home, we need to articulate both things!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u267	Zero contracts!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u268	You voted against! The PCP proposed it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u269	It's a truth from La Palice!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u270	It's La Palice, but you couldn't do anything in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u271	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u272	It's incomprehensible! [[PSD applause.]] And they had a speculative market, with low interest rates, i.e. with the perfect economic conditions to promote a housing programme. You were four years old—especially the years 2017, 2018 and 2019—and did nothing! Now, we're seeing that they're delivering money to the cameras to buy buildings to the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u273	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u274	What's the point of this? This is total madness! It is this: we have to understand very well what we need to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u275	Come on! Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u276	I'm glad everyone agrees! [[Protests by BE Member Maria Manuel Rola and PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] I tell you, Mr. Deputy, first step: draw a map of state properties. Do we agree?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u277	We were already there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u278	Great! We agree. We will draw the map and publish it with the selling price of the properties!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u279	We agree, but they voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u280	We want to know how they're being sold and who. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Listen: if you have the map, get it online, along with the list of asbestos, which should also be online. The only list that is online was made by the PSD Government / CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u281	Because we went up to an olive tree, we didn't find out the problems now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u282	Second step: take these properties and, in conjunction with the state itself or with the private ones, put them on the market. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can go here and trade balls, but the sad reality is that you were four years old in a perfect market and didn't do anything! What you have to present, four years later, is just the lifting of needs. But the first thing they had to do was raise property rather than needs. Honestly, I'm glad you're grateful, though you invite me, that you think this PSD is better and renewed. That's exactly what we're saying here. Now, do something, seriously, do something! Get something out here and see it, 'cause nothing's gone yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u283	And serve people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u284	Nothing! Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u285	José Estévão de Magalhães in the place where he's supposed to be...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u286	Literally zero! We're waiting. We're still waiting. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u287	Madam Member, I do not want to interrupt your speech, and I ask you not to hurt me, but the Rules of Procedure determine that, when Members intervene, they have a statutory obligation to address the President and the Assembly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u288	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u289	And the "you"...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u290	I did not interrupt the honourable Member, but in any case I would draw your attention in general to the fulfilment of this provision in Article 83. the Rules of Procedure. For a political statement by the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This morning, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the President of the Resolution Fund revealed that he planned a new injection into the New Bank of EUR 1037 million in 2020. I repeat: EUR 1037 million, amounting to EUR 1149 million in 2019 and EUR 792 million in 2018, totalling EUR 2978 million, i.e. almost EUR 3000 million delivered to the private shareholder of the New Bank, since its sale in 2017. Mrs. Members, 19 days have passed since the end of the debate on the State budget. The final draft has not yet come out of Parliament, the diploma has not yet been promulgated by the President of the Republic and a hole has already been opened in the accounts of EUR 400 million. The Minister of Finance must then explain to Parliament and to the country why the Government has written in the Budget that the New Bank would have an impact on public accounts of 600 million but, after all, that effect, we now know, will be of 1037 million. The difference is 437 million, which the Government will have to compensate, with more revenue or less expenditure, to end the year with its surplus budget. As a matter of fact, the same thing happened last year. In 2019, the public accounts paid the New Bank more than EUR 749 million than expected and the deficit was still below expectations. The manoeuvre is not new and, knowing that, the Left Block repeatedly confronted the Minister of Finance, in the budgetary debate, on the irrefutableness of its forecasts. Mário Centeno had an obligation in this debate to know that the capital needs of the New Bank would greatly exceed the value provided for in the Budget. by failing to adjust these forecasts, the government doublely harmed taxpayers. On the one hand, the injection which will be made directly by the Treasury into the Resolution Fund and, on the other hand, by the consequences of an additional reduction of 400 million made at the cost of spending on public services. But let's go back to New Bank accounts. of the total of 1037 million to be injected by 2020 and to be recorded in the budget balance, 850 million will come directly from a Treasury loan to the Resolution Fund. This loan substantially increases the State's charges with the private bank and should therefore be discussed and voted in the Assembly of the Republic. But that will not happen, because the Block's proposal for this debate has been plunged into the State budget with the votes against the PS and PSD. by doing so - the PSD gave the government a blank letter to inject funds into the New Bank up to EUR 850 million, and that is what the Government will do. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the resolution in 2014 to the end of 2019, the State has already allocated 5800 million to pay for the failure of BES and to finance the New Bank. of these, 3900 million were injected by the PSD Government / CDS, in 2014 when Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque guarantees that « the financing solution found safeguards public time ». The Minister further assured by saying that « a new bank with adequate capital and liquidity » was being created. After that, Minister Mário Centeno came to assure the country that sale to the Lone Star private fund was the best solution for the New Bank and that "there would be no state guarantees in the New Bank". But there were even guarantees, worth EUR 3900 million, and the New Bank is sucking them to the end, for the benefit of its private owner, Lone Star. This does not count on the greatly lost capital injections that the State has already made in the New Bank, on account of a dark mechanism called « deferred tax assets ». These deferred tax assets have already been a direct injection of EUR 389 million public in the New Bank and there are more than 300 million in the box to be injected. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, throughout this debate, which has been going on for years, there was only one alternative proposal to solve the problem of the New Bank, which was its maintenance in the public sphere. This proposal, which was brought to the vote by the Left Block, did not miraculously eliminate the costs of failure of BES, but assumed a basic principle: if the State pays, then the State sends. This alternative was once again refused by PS, PSD and CDS. This is why we are here: in the austere situation of having a private shareholder manage a credit portfolio that is guaranteed by the State. And so we read every day the news about attempts to sell asset portfolios for scrapping, about the conflicts as to the accounting standards to be adopted by the New Bank, which may cost about 200 million to the State, and even we read about the possibility of a single injection that could only exhaust the guarantee given by the State to the New Bank. At the end of all this, we have only one certainty: all these operations will serve to clear the bank balance which Lone Star fund wants to sell, for profit, as soon as possible. Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, on the list of misdeeds that have transferred to the New Bank are the debts of the Berardo Foundation, Sporting, Ongoing, Mello Group, Luís Filipe Vieira, Benfica, João Pereira Coutinho or the Moniz family of Maia. No one has answered yet for these calotas of Ricardo Salgado's friends and today, the country is impatient to await an accusation and a trial of the managers responsible for the failure of the BES, among them Ricardo Salgado. But something the House should ensure, while justice does not do its work: that no more than one penny enters the New Bank without being known an audit of the accounts and the treatment of credits from BES. The Bloc will present this proposal and we hope that, contrary to what happened in the State budget, it will be approved this time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u292	The Bureau has so far recorded four, moreover, five requests for clarification, to which we have the indication that Mrs Mariana Mortágua will answer together. You then have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, brought here the theme of the continuing capital injections, which is like those who say « money », that the Resolution Fund, with State loans, i.e. all of us, has made to the New Bank. I confess, Mrs. Member, that although I understand and even share your indignation with this state of things, I cannot, however, understand your surprise. The Left Block, Mrs. Deputy or anyone who was following the news has no reason to be surprised at this. I would like to understand better, because, we noticed, we all here knew or had an obligation to know that, from the moment the Portuguese State decided to sell the New Bank, with a public guarantee that it did not call 'guarantee' — we spent many months here discussing whether it was a guarantee or not and what was a contingent capital mechanism, but I think we all realize that, after all, it is a form of the State responsible for the losses of the New Bank — the ceiling was EUR 39 billion. As we all knew — the CDS often warned — that it was quite likely that we would be close to the ceiling of EUR 3900 million. Secondly, and I am particularly pleased to tell you about this because I voted in favour of the Left Block proposal and I think it makes sense that it is Parliament discussing, approving and even controlling the precise capital injections, I cannot see why the Surprise Left Block is left with the capital injections...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u295	... when these were planned in the Budget and were made with the favourable vote of the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u296	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u297	in this matter, the PS is not alone in the photograph, Mrs. There's no reason to be surprised! These capital injections were also made with your vote. What I would like to ask you is, on the one hand, the alternative that the Left Block defends for these capital injections to stop or be taken to its minimum. The pure and simple nationalization of the bank will not lead to their stopping, it will lead to, presumably, increasing. Secondly, I have a deep question that I would like to leave you. The BES resolution was made in 2014. The Banco de Portugal said that the New Bank was clean—I think we all realized how clean it was and what kind of assets there were—but, Mrs Deputies, it will be reasonable, after six years, to have a case with such serious contours that even the trial has not arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u299	On this matter, I think Parliament and all the parties should meditate. I'd like to know what the Left Block stands for in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u300	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as you will certainly remember in October 2017 when the New Bank was sold to Lone Star, the government told us that the contingent capital mechanism, i.e. the public guarantee provided for in the sale agreement, would hardly be used, I repeat, would hardly be used. Well, with this new request for capital injection, the third, amounting to EUR 1037 million, in just over two years, will be used close to EUR 3000 million in a mechanism supported by the public record and which would supposedly be used to ‘grow up’ the sale of the New Bank. That being said, of two, one : either the government of Dr. António Costa and Dr. Mário Centeno has deceived us or was deceived. But as we don't know any kind of sanctioning about those who hypothetically would have deceived Dr. António Costa and Dr. Mário Centeno, we remain, therefore, the hypothesis that the government has been misleading the Portuguese. The fact is that the New Bank is being cleaned up at the expense of the contingent capital mechanism, i.e. at the expense of the public record and it is also true that much has contributed to the fact that both the Resolution Fund and the Monitoring Committee have done nothing, but strictly nothing, have done significant to defend the public interest, limiting itself in practice to looking at the invoice and sending the check. That is why I ask you what we can expect from here forward. Does it not seem to you that the best thing is to prepare ourselves for the use of almost all of the EUR 3900 million of the public guarantee, which the government was misleadingly saying was only useful to tackle the sale of the New Bank? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u302	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u303	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the opportunity of the subject, especially after what we learned this morning. In fact, since the beginning of the crisis, the Portuguese have already paid more than EUR 20 billion to try to save the bank and, when we talk about the New Bank problem, we are talking about a problem that has been dragging for about six years. I am not going to bring to collate the responsibilities of the PSD/CDS government, which are many, I will say only that the PSD/CDS government has created a problem but has not solved it and every day it passes we will realize that after all this clean output is getting further polluted. Anyway, what is true is that taxpayers are already tired of paying for bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities, and today we have learned, as Mrs Deputy said very well from the speaker's gallery, that the New Bank's claim points to more than EUR 1037 million. But the worst thing is, we don't even know when the tap closes. Now, the fact that we do not know when the tap closes becomes even more urgent the need to end the immorality that represents what we have been watching and which is very simple: when banks profit, shareholders divide profits among themselves to millions. In silence—no one hears them! — share the cake and keep very quiet. When banks damage, the State calls the taxpayers to pay. This cannot continue to happen, it is necessary to put an end to this immorality and to this injustice and that paradigm change should begin with the New Bank. For the Greens, the least expensive solution for taxpayers and the best one to serve the interests of the country must be the solution to be adopted for the New Bank. To that end, it would be necessary for the State to take account of the New Bank. The New Bank must be in the hands of the State to thus put it to the service of the development of the country and of our economy, of the interests of the Portuguese, of the interests of our country, because, as you have well mentioned, Mrs Deputy, if the State pays, the New Bank must be in the hands of the State, which it is who pays. In the meantime, Mrs Deputy, we also understood that it was important for the Portuguese to know, at least, when the tap closes because no one knows. I should therefore like to know if you share this concern of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u304	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u305	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the New Bank should have been integrated into the public sphere so that the Portuguese could at least stay with the bank where billions of euros of public money have already been injected. The option made by the former PS Government was to hand over the New Bank to a foreign economic group. This option continues to prove to be wrong and causing enormous damage to the country. Today we are aware that the private economic group to which the New Bank has been handed over will ask the Resolution Fund for more EUR 1037 million, i.e. all Portuguese. More than EUR 1037 million are going to approximate the value given to the New Bank of the maximum that was provided for in the guarantee fund at the time of sale to Lone Star, contrary to what the Government said, i.e. that would not be used all the amount of EUR 3, 98 billion. The government knew the profile of Lone Star and knew the accounts of the New Bank and therefore it was easy to see that this would be the way: clean up the problems, using the guarantees paid by the Portuguese, and, on the way, sell real estate, forgive debts to large companies, sell debt portfolios at a balance price—it is there with what benefit Lone Star itself or related entities—to fire workers and close counters. And in the end, after cleaning, paid by all Portuguese, it would again be handed over to foreign capital. More than 1037 million euros continue to make it clear that the decisions taken by the PSD / CDS government, in the face of the BSE scandal, have started from a huge scam, which was to say that it was possible to clean up the bank's accounts with the €4,9 billion of the troika. At the time, they said that the choice for nationalisation would have high costs. Well, with the resolution decided by PSD and CDS and with the privatisation decided by PS, always with the opposition of the PCP, we can reach EUR 9 billion paid by the Portuguese and in the end the bank will not be ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u306	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u307	That is why the CFP proposed in the State budget for 2020 that any new injection of public money into the New Bank should immediately initiate the process of recovery of public control over the bank, which was rejected by PS, PSD, CDS, IL and CH. These EUR 1037 million clearly demonstrate the need for progress towards the recovery of public control of the bank. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, does the Left Block accompany the PCP in relation to the goal of regaining public control of the New Bank or do you think that the question is only whether or not the permission to transfer money is being requested by the Assembly of the Republic? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u308	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor also to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u309	Mr. President, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, the theme of the New Bank is of great public interest. Today, we learned that for the third consecutive year, the New Bank will ask the Resolution Fund for capital. However, although the third request for capital injection by the New Bank to the Resolution Fund was issued by 2020, the third request was the same as the first and second requests. It is that the BES resolution has been inadequate, it has been insufficient. Those who resolved the BES, at the time, and created the New Bank, promised a good bank, but in fact, who made that resolution in 2014 — the Banco de Portugal and the former PSD / CDS government — traded assets from BES highly toxic to the New Bank, which have again generated huge losses in the New Bank’s balance sheet and are justifying these New Bank’s capital requests to the Resolution Fund. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u310	We remember, we do not forget, that weeks before the BES resolution there were those who assured the Portuguese that BES was a solid bank, a trusted bank. We recall the words of Cavaco Silva, Maria Luís Albuquerque and also of the Governor of Banco de Portugal, Carlos Costa, who at the time said that BES was a reliable bank, a solid bank. The fact is that the New Bank was created with an initial capital of EUR 4900 million and today the capital that has already been needed is almost EUR 11 billion, which says that at the time they did not speak the truth to the Portuguese. That is because they knew that if BES had to be resolved for the truth, the EUR 4900 million would not have arrived. So last year the Socialist Party proposed a set of hearings to the administration of the New Bank, the New Bank Monitoring Commission, the Resolution Fund, so that it would be possible to know the truth about the toxic assets that the former PSD/CDS Government and the Banco de Portugal did not want to leave in BES and move on to the New Bank, which are representing a very high invoice for the State Budget and the Resolution Fund. Thus, the initiative of an audit that determines the responsibilities of the toxic assets that are justifying this high capital call bill by the New Bank to the Resolution Fund and that it knows why the previous PSD/CDS Government, which promised to sell the New Bank saying that it would be a successful sale, failed to sell it. This failed sale led the New Bank to pre-failence, which is why, in December 2015, the Banco de Portugal was obliged to transmit senior bonds from the New Bank's balance sheet to BES, to save the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u311	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u312	The question I put to you, Mrs Debt, in closing, is whether you agree with the position of the Socialist Party, which, like what happened in the last Committee of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box, believes it is very important to wait for the audit, which, as we know today, will perhaps be completed in the next month of May, so that Parliament can evaluate and analyse the possibility of a new parliamentary committee of inquiry, where in fact all the truth related to BES and the resolution is discovered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u313	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u314	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the various questions put by the honourable Members. Members and by Mrs Deputies and perhaps, first of all, to give cause to both sides who have raised questions, i.e. to the Socialist Party and to the PSD and the CDS, who were part of the government which has taken up the resolution of the BES. In 2014, we were guaranteed by the PSD/CDS government and Banco de Portugal that the EUR 3900 million that were being injected were sufficient and that did not come from the public record. In 2017, we were assured that the sale would solve the problem, that the new guarantee of EUR 3900 million was sufficient and that the money would not come from the public record. Therefore, the history of the New Bank, since 2014, is a story of deceptions, because the idea that you can save private banks without public costs is a scam, come from where you come from. Also, the Block has always opposed the recapitalization of banks with public funds to then hand them over to the private ones, so that they do with them the business that they understand well and appropriate themselves to profit. Whenever the Left Block was called to vote a recapitalisation of a bank for sale to a private vote against. This was the case at Banif ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), i.e. the proposal went through the abstention of the PSD and the favorable vote of the PS. In the New Bank, these injections did not come autonomously to Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u315	It was in the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u316	... it was the Left Block that brought this decision, proposing the nationalization of the New Bank, and I think that, along with the Portuguese Communist Party, it was the only party that proposed an alternative. Did you have any costs? Yes, sir, it had costs, but at least we knew that the bank was in public ownership and, having profits, the profits remained for the state. The state managed the assets, took the money from the debtors and kept the profits when they were. What we cannot admit is that the State pays all the damages and then let Lone Star or any private shareholder keep the profits. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u317	But this proposal was rejected in Parliament by PSD, CDS and PS. We returned to the debate in the last State budget to ensure that there would be no new capital injection in the New Bank which was not decided on by law, giving the Assembly of the Republic power to decide whether or not there should be no more public capital in the New Bank. This proposal was rejected, with the votes of the PSD and PS. We will return to the debate with a new proposal so that there will be no new capital injection without an audit of the accounts of the New Bank. Mr João Paulo Correia, I understand it and I think we should analyze the accounts and know the audit, but a parliamentary committee of inquiry does not replace Parliament's decision not to inject any more money into the New Bank or not to do so if it is understood that the accounts are not in condition and that there is insufficient transparency. I think this is the time of the Assembly of the Republic, in addition to just scrutiny, which you have done, make decisions and draw conclusions on the basis of this scrutiny and evaluation. Finally, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has raised a question which I think is relevant and on which people also ask. The cases are very serious, were investigated and polled in parliamentary committees of inquiry, there have been investigations since 2014, there are no charges, there are no judgments, there are no culprits, there are no consequences of everything that happened in the Portuguese bank. In addition to asking the judicial system for greater speed, including the necessary separation of powers, we need to think about what we can do so that the investigation, prosecution and trial of these economic crimes can be more effective and faster. It seems to me that it is obvious that more means are needed for the Judiciary Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Separation of mega-processes is essential today, so that we can have more speed in the accusations. And finally, I think we also have to reflect on the use and abuse of dilating maneuvers, i.e. resources behind resources that often these suspects end up using to prolong these processes over time and so that convictions do not exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u318	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u319	I will finish, Mr. President. That is what we saw in the case of fines to several bankers who have eventually prescribed, precisely because of the abuse of these dilating maneuvers. I believe that these are the paths we should pursue. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u320	We now move on to the political declaration of the CFP. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Insolute, insulting, unthinkable, illegal, incompetence. These are some of the epithets used in recent days by associations, unions, researchers and so many other voices that stood in protest against the surrender of works of art, deposited in a public museum, to a private hotel group and also as to the well-known new cast of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage. to previous epithetes we can add ironic. at the same time as the Minister of Culture complains about the disappearance of not 94, but of 112 works of the art collection of the State, the Under-Secretary of State and Cultural Heritage authorizes the surrender to the group Vila Galé, for 25 years, of about 50 pieces of the Collection Rainer Daehnhardt, belonging to the State and incorporated into the reservation of the National Museum of Cars. Can we ask, will it be intentional? For here is a strange coherence that is also manifested in recent changes to the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage and in the appointment of a real estate market specialist as Director-General of Cultural Heritage, in a team without a single archaeologist, and which has as its curriculum its passage in Parvalorem. He is an apparent enthusiast, even if by another name, of solutions of the type Revive Program, of the concession and alienation of the public heritage, as it is also possible to read in the proposal of his own fist, which is designated For a public strategy of real estate management in Portugal, carried out in 2013. The Revive Program, in fact, is exactly the beginning of the history of the assignment of works to a private hotel group to be able to make profits on account of what is of all, and not just of some, because the Vila Galé Collection Alter Real Hotel is an example of a real estate alienated precisely through that program.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u323	The fingers go away and also the rings and we will see if one day one will know the whereabouts, as in that sad and famous episode of bad memory of the Pousadas de Portugal and of the public heritage. On the way, there is an endless statement from the hotel group that attacks a national museum, saying that the collection was, and I quote, « in a deplorable state and of abandonment». What a mess! It will be much better, they will find, decorating the views for rich tourists than serving as a living heritage for study, dissemination, discussion, problematization, that is, for collective benefit in the reserves of a public museum and for integration into its normal museum programming. Heritage policy cannot be subject to or subordinate to the market and tourism policy. Cultural heritage cannot be divested or altered in its characteristics, particularly physical and uses, solely by the will of the Government and private interests, irrespective of the pressures they may exert. The question is precisely that pressures have existed in this case because there is a negative opinion of the Department of Museums, Conservation and Accreditation, in August 2019, deepened by the communication of the Director of the National Car Museum, already this month. And she said in clear terms that « the order of 13 January 2020 of H.E. the Under-Secretary of State and the Cultural Heritage has, except for the great and due respect, incompetence ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is required is that this ruinous business does not move forward and, more importantly, that the prospect open by the Secretary of State for this assignment cannot be realized as the first of many other concessions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u324	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u325	What is required, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the full fulfilment of the State's responsibilities in safeguarding cultural heritage. What is required is the implementation of proposals which the CFP has long advocated for strengthening investment, a coherent and progressive programme for cultural heritage and the end of the grid, privatization, of the concession which the Socialist Party is now putting, with all the forms, on the table, with measures of the nature of this sad case. The heritage, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is neither the currency nor the currency of exchange in any negotiation. The public heritage is of all people, it must be respected and that must be the reality in our country!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u326	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u327	That's also why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the CFP, in addition to having already submitted a request to the Committee on Culture to call upon the Minister of Culture to respond fully and clarify this whole case, also announces the delivery in the Assembly of a draft resolution to prevent the realisation of the works of the Rainer Daenhardt Collection and ensure its maintenance at the National Cars Museum.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u328	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u329	Watch out for the words!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u330	It's a shame, it's true! Business is a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u331	It's good to stay in Lisbon! Everything in Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u332	What is shameful, Mr Luís Moreira Testa — it can be reassured — is that all of this has taken place in the way it has taken place: to the darkness, in an incapacitated process, in which there were negative opinions, in which there was a national museum, which has an integrated collection in its reserve, which said that the collection should not be handed over, and there is insistent, by the Government, for this surrender!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u333	It's good at the Car Museum where they can always visit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u334	The truth is, Mr President, there will be no ‘rems’ of buses going into a hotel to see what only private people who access and stay in the hotel will be able to see, while the works are placed there in a place for someone to see. This is because they are going to be there to make the profit of a private undertaking. Not only is it not for the benefit of everyone and for not being accessible to everyone, as, on the contrary, it serves to deepen the wrong policy that the Socialist Party is doing by not investing more and more in the need to dynamize the heritage to, rather, give in to the heritage that is of us all! It is about opening a very serious precedent, with which the CFP will not agree and will therefore present the draft resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u335	The Bible already had the episode about the temple vendettalons!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u336	The Bureau recorded three requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Mesquita, to whom Mrs Mesquita will answer together. You then have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mrs Alexandra Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, culture and heritage have been treated as nobody's land and are increasingly in the interest of real estate interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u338	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u339	In the Left Block, at national or local level, we have come to denounce different situations of deresponsibility, abandonment and risk. Be museums, archives, archaeological sites, laboratories, monuments and historic buildings, everything is threatened. It does not seem to us that the Revive solution guarantees compliance with the Basics of Heritage Law. The history of the Rainer Daenhardt Collection's transfer to Hotel Vila Galé is an example of the greatest gravity. It's serious about what happened and it's serious about what hasn't happened yet. Firstly, the concession was justified by false assumptions. It is not true that the collection was without destiny since it was donated to the State, on the contrary, was integrated into the National Car Museum. Secondly, fate is not safe. The space for which the collection has been transferred does not meet the technical requirements, as the report of the technical audit reports report reports. Finally, giving up is illegal, because you did not comply with the Basics of Heritage Law, contrary to the technical opinion, and negative, having been done by those who do not have the competence to do so. How can that happen? It's an explanation we're still waiting for. What is more, how is it that the situation has not yet been stopped? If it's illegal, how can it happen? Or isn't it? Has the former Director-General failed to allow this process, but Mrs Ana Mesquita, does it not seem to you that it is also very wrong for the new Director who has not yet stopped this process? And what about the guardianship — the Ministry of Culture and the Secretary of State — that has given cover to this whole process? In his misdeeds and silence, he gives reason to the fears of those who see in the Ministry's last decisions the way of mercantillization and privatization of cultural heritage. One thing is certain: they will have all the opposition from the Left Block and from all those who, in the country, defend the heritage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u340	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, we share the same starting point. The Communist Party has been accompanying our initiatives in the Commission and, as you know, we have been accompanying those of the CFP in order to clarify this much messy. Culture has been on the pages of newspapers and always for bad reasons: it is the question of State works of art, which has to be clarified; it was the very abnormal appointment of the new Director-General of Cultural Heritage, which triggered a very violent reaction of the sector and which lacks an explanation; it is the question of the Secretary of State who has a company, which no longer has, that it was to have, but then it did not have and part of the profit it could receive; it is the RTP, in which a weak leadership makes the strong nations weak; it is the ERC (Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), in which decisions are incomprehensible and even speaks in an inaccessible personal environment; it is the appointments. Finally, culture accumulates news and is not positive. Madam Member, the Communist Party demands a set of things and it is from now on that we are in dissonance. This is because in the last Budget the CFP presented more than 20 proposals in the area of culture and, which is known, in the area of cultural heritage, has approved one or a half proposals, but voted on the Budget. The question is this: for how long and what must happen so that you have a consequent reaction? This is because as long as it is the demands of the speaker's rostrum and vote in the Budget, the Socialist Party lives well with that. We have been consistent, disagreed, wanted to know and voted against! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u342	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I think we are required, as Members, that, when we make an intervention or address a topic, we know what we are talking about and I did not think that this happened with you, Ex.A., first because I have heard you mention several times the heritage of Bethlehem or the Museum of Bethlehem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u344	You heard me wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u345	That heritage was acquired by the Coudelaria de Alter do Chão in the period 1995-2002, at which the greatest investment effort was made to rehabilitate it after, in 1995, had been on the verge of developing its privatization and had been avoided in extremes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u346	Is it embedded right where?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u347	This is an institution with 272 years of history, with the oldest co-ordinatery in Europe operating continuously and where a very relevant investment was made, claiming that there was a regional development pole around this cluster, which is the Alter Real horse, the Lusitano horse. Thus, a molecular genetics laboratory, which today works in connection with the University of Évora ; a professional riding school, a school of falcoaria ; an equestrian museum, for which several pieces were acquired, including this Daenhardt Collection ; a small car museum was created; covered and discovered pickers were created and pending the construction of a hotel that at the time was in negotiation with ENATUR (National Tourism Company), which meanwhile suffered the evolution we all know. Therefore, Mrs. Member, what is at stake and what I would like you to say to me is whether you want the collection, which was acquired by the Coudelaria to be enjoyed in the Coudelaria, in the context of a regional development project anchored on the Alter Real horse, there continues to be exposed or exposed in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u348	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u349	Of course that's it! I said that, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u350	This is because in 2013 the government of then decided to transfer this heritage to the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage and just over a year ago it was that trucks appeared in the Coudelaria de Alter claiming that heritage, invoking a decree that had been made three or four years earlier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u351	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u352	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is that the most worthy building in the Coudelaria is being prepared, which are the so-called "high houses", where a museum will be set up, in public heritage—it remains a company of 100 % state capital—and, eventually, there will be a remaining heritage that may be temporary exposure to the hotel unit, or not. But that, the Minister for Culture here will come to light.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u353	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u354	What would you like to know, Mrs Deputy, is whether the honourable Member defends that this heritage is to be enjoyed in Alter do Chão, in the context of this project, or in Lisbon, in the Museum of Cars, which of this heritage is appropriate? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u355	Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the questions that have been raised and by answering Mr Capoulas Santos. Mr. Deputies, we want all of this! [[PS Deputies Luís Moreira Testa.]] To say that the collection is incorporated into a national museum does not mean that it is closed inside the walls of the museum or inside the reservation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u357	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u358	And more: the dignity that the collection has only justifies the public character and its incorporation into a national museum.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u359	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u360	Therefore, regional valuation is precisely taking into account and respecting this particular characteristic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u361	It's impressive! Great walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u362	The honourable Member is very excited!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u363	He doesn't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u364	Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, the Portuguese Communist Party called the Minister to the Commission, and the PSD accompanied us, yes sir. Now, let's present a draft resolution to prevent this business from taking place. Will the PSD accompany us in this discussion? That is why it was important to know, because, after all, it is so intertwined with the question which you have raised. It is in concrete terms that the consequences and coherence of actions are seen. If the proposals submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party in the State Budget had counted on the positive vote of the PSD in most of the situations they had been approved and therefore had resolved concrete problems that now arise in the culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u365	Exactly! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u366	Since our proposals did not count on the support of the PSD, nor the CDS, they were in a broken bag, giving the Socialist Party an opportunity not to achieve them. It is in concrete terms the decisions and the votes that you see where this goes. Mr President, I had every opportunity to help us adopt a proposal as important as that of 1 % of the Culture Budget. It was good, it was urgent, it was necessary and would help to ensure that such wastes were not happening in our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u367	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u368	Mrs Alexandra Vieira, I would like to thank you for the question you have raised. The truth is, there are a lot of strange things in this case. It's funny that the donor doesn't even agree that the works go to the hotel. It's very curious! In fact, he has already come to tell the public he disagrees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u369	They've been bought! There was no donation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u370	In addition, there is a negative opinion of the director of the Museum of Cars. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Where do you fit this opinion, taking into account that it is the entity to whom the care of the collection is given? If there is an opposite opinion, if the Basics of Cultural Heritage Act says that this opinion must be taken into account and if there is a Basics Law that upholds the heritage that is of all, the logical decision is not to open precedents in this matter, so that there is no other concession to any other hotel group or group of anything else, thus ensuring the public interest, ensuring that the works remain where they should be and ensuring that they are valued to the inside. We don't have anything against that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u371	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u372	...and the Car Museum even has decentralised poles. It's good to remember this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u373	In Vila Viçosa! In Vila Viçosa, ignorant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u374	Therefore, what we have the conditions to do now is to put into the hands of the Assembly of the Republic the impediment to the realization of this business, which is not good for our country, is not good for culture and will certainly open precedents for mercantillization, concession and privatization, which we will never follow and we will always fight in the front line. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u375	Mr João Almeida has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party and, in particular, the Prime Minister always stated that Portugal's position in relation to Europe, while this Government was in office, would be a strong voice in Europe. And we have seen several times the Prime Minister claiming this strong voice, but we have seen less of the results of this strategy that he announced. At the beginning of this year, there are two issues, in European terms, which are essential for us to check whether what has always been proclaimed by the Prime Minister is practical or not. On the one hand, we have the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework and, on the other hand, we have the Portuguese presidency, which will take place in the first half of next year. With regard to the Portuguese presidency, we will have the opportunity to speak from here to the front, but there is already a fact that we are concerned about your programme. It was announced by the Prime Minister as the highest priority of the Portuguese presidency that the European Union's relationship with Africa would be at the European Union-Africa summit in this context. It happens that this summit has already been shifted to the timetable of the Portuguese presidency for the German presidency, that is, the one that was the main pillar of the Portuguese strategy and its presidency remained on the ground and will not be realized. It is still worth noting what will be the alternative of the government to achieve this priority. With regard to the multiannual financial framework, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, at the first hearings in this Parliament, even in the previous legislature, dismissed the possibility of Portugal defining a strategy with the cohesion countries, believing that Portugal should speak to all and should even have as priority to speak with the strongest countries within the European Union. And, in this context, he said that he was completely on the side of the hypothesis of vetoing the final outcome of the proposal for a multiannual financial framework. It is time to take stock of this negotiating strategy. The Portuguese Government's negotiating strategy, in terms of value, has not so far ensured neither cohesion nor the CAP (common agricultural policy), which Portugal would be able to protect its interests: it has failed to ensure from the point of view of co-financing that what today is a co-financing of 15 % cannot go up to 25 % or up to 30 %; it has not managed to ensure that Portugal, from a strategic point of view, could have a good distribution of these values; it has not even managed to implement the European agenda, which has as priorities Green Deal and the digital transition, priorities on which we have not yet made the slightest idea of what the Portugal framework will be. in this sense, it is time to question the Portuguese Government about the results it has not achieved and what the Minister for Foreign Affairs has told us today that it is the only good thing about the current proposal on the table, the proposal by Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which is — no doubt! — the introduction of two new rates. In other words, the Portuguese Government has so far failed to achieve any of the national interests in the negotiation and is pleased that the proposal on the table introduces two new rates, one on plastic and one on emissions trading. From the beginning we said that the Government's strategy was wrong and from the beginning we said that Portugal should have a strategy that would enable us, with the countries with which we are now in a hurry to meet, to check the common interests and how, within these common interests, we could push the negotiation further to the initial proposal of the European Parliament and move it away from other proposals, such as that of the Finnish Presidency or the current President of the Council. So what we need to ask the Portuguese Government again is consistent with what its strategy was. Do they go or not to the end with what they initially defined? We believe that we should not go, we think that we should rethink this strategy and we think, above all, that this is the time to put on the table a fundamental instrument of negotiation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said at the beginning of the negotiations that the veto was out of the question because it was not necessary and because he was sure that Portugal would achieve a good negotiation. So far you haven't been able to. It is therefore essential to know whether the Socialist Party, which in the European Parliament has already criticised the current point of negotiations and which through its Euro MPs has already admitted Portugal to veto the final proposal here in the national Parliament, says the same and, more importantly, it is recommended to the Government to put this fundamental instrument on the table. From the beginning we said that the veto should not be excluded, because, if we excluded it, we would lose strength. From the outset we said that it would be necessary to ensure that global value did not come down, and this is not guaranteed either for cohesion or for the second pillar of the CAP. From the beginning we said that participations should not make our situation worse and, even at least, they are getting worse. That is why we believe that the veto must be on the table and that the defence of national interest implies that the Portuguese Government admits that it has misdefined the strategy for this negotiation, corrects it and approaches the initial position of the CDS. For this, we will have our solidarity, but we must have as a priority the defence of the national interest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u377	Mr President, the Bureau has registered three Mrs to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I wonder how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u378	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u379	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u380	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, I would like to begin by welcoming you for the importance of the subject which brought the debate. We have all followed the negotiations over the last week around the multiannual financial framework of the European Union, and I am sure that we would all like these negotiations to have ended well and that today we have been here, through political declarations or other regulatory figures, to conclude a good multiannual financial framework. I believe that the question to be raised is the following: what is a good multiannual financial framework for Portugal? That is the fundamental question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u381	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u382	We must also ask ourselves whether the Portuguese position, which has been presented today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is not only the one that best safeguards the interests of Portugal but also the one that seeks to safeguard the European ideal. We are not alone in Europe, Mr. I ask you, Mr President, whether you agree that Portugal is based on a position in which we cannot have less funds in the next multiannual financial framework than those available to us in the current framework. I also ask you to agree that Portugal is very important to the structure of expenditure in the Union's budget and that, in this structure of expenditure, the allocation of resources to the common agricultural policy and cohesion policy is essential. I ask you, too, to agree that the dual environmental and digital transition must be made with a social Europe as a background, because this is the high priority of the Portuguese Presidency, as has been defined by the Minister today. To reduce the Portuguese presidency to the issue of the European Union-African Union summit during this presidency is not even fair to the relationship that Portugal maintains with Africa or to the relationship that Portugal maintains with its European partners. Therefore, Mr President, I would be very grateful if you could tell me if you look at the Portuguese position, because I believe that what is at stake is to understand what is a good deal and whether we should get it at any price. I understand, for your part, yes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u383	To reply, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u384	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I begin by answering the question on the European Union-Africa summit. Obviously, the summit is not exclusive of the Portuguese presidency which will start next year. In the previous presidencies, the European Union's relationship with Africa was a priority for obvious reasons, and if there is a point where Portugal, in the context of the European Union, has a strategic value position, it is this relationship with Africa and the appreciation that we can give to this issue. So we will lose influence on this matter for the German presidency is not a good principle, but we will have the opportunity to discuss this matter in the future. With regard to the multiannual financial framework, we agree with this whole principled position. It turns out that the negotiation has turned out to be contrary to what was the initial position. And what we have to say is this: at the beginning, we have warned that the Portuguese strategy does not produce results in this context because we are favouring a kind of position in European terms with countries that did not share the same situation as we did, rather than being shared from the beginning, with realities similar to ours, which is that of the cohesion countries. So we are now running to carry out the cohesion summit to try to catch up on the road and regain influence. If we're still in time, great. But what we need to know, and on this point the honourable Member has not spoken, is whether the PS Parliamentary Group in the national Parliament agrees with the PS Parliamentary Group in the European Parliament, which means that it disagrees with the Government. It is that the PS Parliamentary Group in the European Parliament admits the exercise of the right to veto, the Government does not admit, the great issue that we are still going to be unaware of today, but that we hope that it will be clarified in the near future, is whether the PS Parliamentary Group here in the Assembly of the Republic recognises or not the importance of this negotiating instrument which is the exercise of the right to veto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u385	Mr President, you have four requests for clarification and not three as I announced. The Bureau is accepting inscriptions to request clarifications in a way that is very flexible but is not regiment. I therefore ask the parliamentary groups that, during the speech of the speaker, they signal to the Bureau whether or not they wish to make requests for clarification. Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remind the House that the preparation of this negotiation involved all parties and rarely achieved such an important consensus in priorities. Now, listening to the Socialist Party's statements and the CDS response, I am pleased to say that in Parliament the pro-European parties are all in agreement, but who seems to disagree is the government, because that is what you can see from the failure of this negotiation. I therefore draw attention to the fact that this is also our role, which we have warned the Government four years ago that we are not bringing together the group of ‘Friends of Cohesion’. PS Members will say: « Here he comes again with this conversation ». Yeah, but we repeated so many times and they didn't call us. Our current Prime Minister was in love with President Macron and everything was France. It was with the countries of the south that Portugal wanted to maintain an excellent relationship when our interests were not the countries of the south; the countries that, at the level of cohesion, had the same interests that we were other countries and were behind those that we were now, running, at the end of the hour, almost at the door of marriage, or the decision, to gather interestedly and ask for help to solve a problem that was ours, that was a mistake that we have always pointed out. That is why the negotiation managed by this government is a failure. And worse: when everything was so bad after the meeting — or the theatre at the meeting — of the « Friends of Cohesion », which was more opportunism than belief, the proposal coming out of the council below is even worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u387	It's even worse, it's!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u388	Be still, don't ruin it anymore, that's what you want to say. Mr. João Almeida, what makes sense to ask is: where are we staying? Better not agree than a bad deal? I think we all agree that Portugal cannot accept this negotiation, nor can we find excuses for failing our priorities. What happened here was perhaps António Costa has exchanged France's support for the election of the Minister of Finance for the Eurogroup for the financing of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u389	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u390	Mr. João Almeida, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u391	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. Indeed, the Portuguese Government's strategy has been conducted in this way. I remember that when we were talking about the meeting of the Friends of Cohesion, at the beginning of this process, the government almost got rid of this reality, saying that this was something of other times and other governments and that this government was doing high European politics. There were leaders, who had, from the outset, a Prime Minister who had a European Union status that made Portugal not have to discuss details with the cohesion countries, because he was discussing Europe's future and Europe's major budgetary priority discussions. The problem is that neither budgetary coverage for Europe's major priorities is assured, as I have said, either in the Green Deal or in the digital transition, but, worse, national interests are not guaranteed, all those that have been mentioned yet. Are you sure we have no less money than we had in the previous table? He's not. We can achieve that the second pillar of the CAP is equivalent may be close to being secured in value but has a serious problem, which is that of the national counterpart. It is that if the national counterpart increases substantially it will be very questionable for us to be able to follow. As for cohesion, we continue to demand—and well—not lose in the Cohesion Fund, but the question is that we have a 30 % implementation rate in the Cohesion Fund, which compares with 63 % in the previous framework at the same time. Well we know that this picture has another one year, it's N + 3 is not N + 2, but the question is that we're in the middle of execution. So what we have to ask right now is, from here on, what the strategy of the government is. As far as this issue is concerned, one does not agree to be better than a bad agreement, we need to know what is on the table and what we know so far is what you said, that is after the meeting of the Friends of Cohesion, having been this too late, what is on the table is even worse than what was before. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u392	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u393	Mr President, Mr Pinho de Almeida, the CFP has come to draw attention to the fact that this multiannual financial framework is to be confirmed as the translation and implementation of policies that are negative, and not only for Portugal, of imposition and restriction on the development and sovereignty of our country. We said clearly that the first proposal put forward by the European Commission was already unacceptable and now almost two years later the debate at the European Council was marked by an even worse proposal for Portugal. Today, in the parliamentary committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had an intervention in which, at the time, it was already strange the fact that he was talking about the favorable evolution of this process to the Portuguese position, when this whole debate is confirming that it is in multiple fronts that this budget is deeply negative, because, in addition to cuts in the areas of cohesion and agriculture, the difficulties added in access and mobilization of these funds — Mr has already mentioned some of them — and it is the centralised management of the funds, with the results that have already been shown, and now goes even further in that option and in that model. In fact, it is significant that the European Union's own new revenue — the honourable Member has already referred to it — is precisely those which leave the interests of multinationals and economic giants unaffected, being obtained in perverse processes for the marketing of the environment and for the criminalization of populations. We have always stressed that in the case of European integration the accounting criterion is a mistification, but even in this measure it was surprising the difficulty, to say no more, of Minister Santos Silva in answering directly to this question of the net result for Portugal and the expected significant decrease of this balance, compared with previous tables. We are paying more and more and less, but what is certain is that there is no money that pays the fisheries sector, the industrial communities destroyed, the loss of sovereignty, and that is why we must be firm in rejecting these disastrous proposals, assuming clearly that we do not abdicate any instrument for defense...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u394	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u395	... of the national interest, including the veto, but also of this logic of a bloc of Community policy of economic domination which aims to consolidate in this process of European capitalist integration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u396	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u397	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, it is true that the CFP, and specifically the honourable Member, has repeatedly put this issue to Mr Minister, i.e. if the Portuguese Government's position is not the attempt to, before such a bad proposal, so bad, so bad, come to say that a bad solution is almost already a victory. But I would prefer to remain in what Mr Minister also said today in the committee, i.e. that the final proposal must be between what was the original proposal of the European Commission and what was the initial proposal of the European Parliament. That is an important point for us to know the answer, which we still do not have, to the question: does the Portuguese Government use or not all the mechanisms at its disposal? It is important that we know what the Portuguese Government will do if the final proposal is below what the Commission's original proposal was, that is, outside the window that Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs proposed today. There is also another important issue to which you also mention: we are only talking about large numbers in relation to each of the areas, we still do not even have the notion of the bottom-up distribution of what will come from the next multiannual financial framework. This is far from indifferent, because, as I said, in the agriculture sector, in the second pillar of the CAP, it is very important to know what will happen to co-financing. It is very different to have a project with a 15 % share or have a project with a higher share. It is not enough to tell us that the value is the same. If in each project the national counterpart is substantially superior this puts on the same problems that have to do with the sustainability of fundamental activities, as is the case with the agricultural sector that you mentioned. Therefore, not only is the global issue of negotiation relevant to us, it will also be very important to know how, in essence, the conditions of application of each of the programmes will be distributed so that we know whether from the point of view of our economy there are conditions for the next multiannual financial framework to be positive for Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u398	Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u399	Mr President, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida, today, as has been said, the hearing with Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs. We know that there has been no agreement for the multiannual financial framework, despite the assertive stance, I would say that Portugal belongs, at least for now. It seems that, after all, we all agree. We want, as we now say, more ambition, we want more Europe, we want a cake at least of the same size and that the pieces we are interested in are guaranteed. We want more response to populisms, to the advances of the extreme right, and this, for the Left Block, is achieved by strengthening cohesion policies, without a doubt, and regional development. However, this necessarily implies the abandonment of policies in recent years: extensive privatization, precarious labour relations, weakening of collective bargaining, the right to strike. Moreover, more than abandonment is a real reversal of values, investment in the sense of seeking a Europe that is effectively built for all, including by implementing measures that combat poverty, develop democracy and inclusion in Europe, because that is not what has happened. We are pleased to see that the CDS is now already rising in a non-subjection to European rules, defending the country, putting on the table with courage the possibility of veto, but it is a little difficult to reconcile both things, that is, a militaristic Europe being reconciled with a Europe based on humanist values and the promotion of cohesion. It's hard to do this. How would the CDS propose to make this balance so difficult to achieve? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u400	To reply, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u401	Mr President, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, I thank the questions you have raised and I want to say to you the following: the CDS is a party that has always been committed to European construction and European project and recognises to the European project those that are its main characteristics. First of all, the European project is a peace project, which has ensured the greatest peace period ever within the European space. We have been on the basis of Portugal's accession at the time to the EEC ( European Economic Community ), and we have not been certain that in this Parliament one day we are opposed to the process of enlargement of the European Union, in order to give peoples who had been under totalitarian dictatorships for many years the possibility of participating in this draft peace and in this project of social cohesion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u402	Therefore, the framework, what we are fighting for, is for this Europe, which has brought prosperity to Portugal and many other countries — it is also important for us to recognise this — to continue to have the ability to make a sufficiently equitable distribution of the funds so that cohesion actually exists. Therefore, from our point of view, regardless of national policies in which we have the greatest difference, in the negotiation of a multiannual financial framework such as this it is essential to ensure, on the one hand, that national interests are defended and, on the other hand, that Europe continues to have this purpose of maintaining peace and promoting social cohesion. What we find right now is that the government has not been able to do enough to secure the first part, that is to say, the defence of national interest, and has not made enough effort to get Europe to have a new chapter that effectively makes us all feel comfortable in this European project and we know that what has motivated this project in the past continues to motivate and makes sense, not only for those who are inside but also for those who can come to join the European Union and be part of it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u403	Mrs. Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has decided to use his right to make a political statement at this session, so you have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The statue that symbolizes justice is a woman with a balance, indicating fairness and weighting when judging, a sword, representing determination in law enforcement, and a sale in the eyes, in a sign of impartiality and objectivity of justice. But today, Portuguese justice has an unbalanced balance, a Romba sword, which does not cut, and a sale so tight that justice has become blind but not in the right sense. Justice, rather than looking at all as equal before the law, simply no longer see — nothing sees and nothing knows. « Nothing knows» was, in fact, the reply given more than 40 times by the Prime Minister to Judge Carlos Alexandre on the case of Tancos. We already had utopian socialism, scientific socialism, democratic socialism. Now, I think we have distracted socialism, distracted socialists who pretend they see nothing and know nothing, as far as justice is concerned. We in the Liberal Initiative look good. We are very open-eyed and will not be distracted. We were very open in this House in December when we denounced the prescription of fines, hundreds of thousands of euros, to most of the parties represented here. We challenged the parties to pay the fines not yet prescribed, no longer using dilating maneuvers and taking advantage of the lack of means of the supervisory entity. They got distracted. We have been very open when we immediately reacted to the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, which sought to clarify the powers of the hierarchy of the Public Prosecutor's Office and recommend that the orders given do not contain their respective procedures. An opinion not dated, not signed, without mention of any votes won but which, nevertheless, was quickly transformed into a binding directive by the Attorney-General of the Republic. And no one thinks it's strange that the opinion has even been requested? What happens in the Public Prosecutor's Office so that the Prosecutor feels the need to ask for an internal opinion clarifying her powers? Only one distracted would not ask. We have also been very open when we call for an urgent parliamentary hearing with the Attorney-General of the Republic and with the President of the Union of Magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We would like to clarify the reasons why, within the limit, we should assign to the top of the hierarchy the driving power of all the steps of the investigations, without being able to understand why directives have been given, even if directives have been given, making it impossible to discharge responsibilities. This is all less transparency—even the most distracted will agree. It is this role that we have, to monitor the enforcement of the law and to denounce what is wrong, that we will continue to do, as much as others want us to see silenced or sold, on the side of those who are distracted. We'll keep our eyes open. Despite our hearing with the Attorney-General of the Republic having been plunged by the PS, by the abstention of the Portuguese Communist Party and the non-registered MP and by the absence of the PAN and the Arrival, and despite the PGR's directive being suspended by public pressure, we will hear the President of the Union of the Magistrates of the Public Prosecutor's Office and will not give up on the reasons that led the Attorney-General of the Republic to request this opinion. A Attorney-General of the Republic who does not know or does not want to explain what is happening within the Public Prosecutor's Office and what the need for this opinion does not have the conditions to continue in office. It is essential to understand what is happening in one of the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. When the rule of law is at issue there are explanations to give to the country, even if the PS is interested in pretending that it is distracted. We will also continue with open eyes by doing everything to ensure that the Supreme Council of the Magistrate establishes a syndicate on the recent suspicions of addiction of the electronic process distribution system at the Lisbon Court, the issue of the greatest seriousness that the Government does not seem to care about. Give them a good time to be distracted. We will continue with open eyes, challenging the socialists who dominate the State apparatus to respect the institutions in fulfilling their duties. I am talking about cases such as those of the Minister of Higher Education or the President of the Lisbon Chamber, who have decided to completely disregard the Court of Auditors'reports. The distracted socialists exalt themselves when someone opposes them and then drop the mask. Why? Because an institution — just imagine! — does its work to examine public expenditure and to comply with the law. We will continue with open eyes by raising our voice against the hypothesis of Mário Centeno's going to Governor of Banco de Portugal, even if the PSD does not. For us, it is obvious that there is a conflict of interest in Minister Centeno to propose to the Council of Ministers that is part of the name of Dr. Centeno for the position of Governor of the system supervisor that Minister Centeno has kept until now! by not denouncing this subject, Rui Rio and PSD align with the most distracted socialists, a central block of distraction that does not see any harm in any of this. This very central block of the ‘kitchen’ distraction is the way judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. A system in which judges are appointed by PS and PSD, as these understand well. A system that has to end. In due course, we will present our proposal on the election of judges to the Constitutional Court, but the elections this Friday cannot be left with only one comment also distracted. It is that the central block thinks that 'throw out the rockets' and the other parties that re-sign themselves. Do not count with us to « catch the canes ». We reject the name of Vitalino Canas for the Constitutional Court and we greet all parties who have already taken the same position publicly. It is unthinkable that anyone who spoke from the Socrates Government, member of the Socialist Party and Secretary of State of Guterres may occupy the place of judge of the Constitutional Court. The position has too much institutional relevance and requires too much independence to allow so much proximity to party policy and so much leadership. Moreover, it is public that the person concerned is a friend of José Socrates, and it is known that it is not unlikely that the Marquês operation may, in the future, be appreciated by the Constitutional Court. Whether or not they are joint listings, I would like to draw your attention to this. These signs tell us that we are returning to a time when the Socialist Party is confused with the state and state with the Socialist Party. No one can close their eyes to this state of things. in this type of cases, we cannot be distracted, and much less blind. We cannot let the functioning of justice, one of the pillars of our liberal democracy, be at stake. We must be careful, with open eyes, to intervene, denounce and propose alternatives that give Portugal what he needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u405	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u406	I will finish, Mr. President. Portugal needs to combat conflicts of interest and effective separation of powers. Portugal does not need a party to confuse with the State. Portugal needs more political liberalism and less socialism distracted and blind, as far as justice is concerned. We won't be distracted. We won't close our eyes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u407	An intervention on the separation of powers. This is liberal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u408	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u409	Mr President, I reply twice, firstly, to a group of two Mrs. Members and then a Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u410	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Andre Ventura has the floor, which has one minute, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u411	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo on bringing here a fundamental issue of our State. Distributed socialism is a great expression and shows well the situation in which we are. Taking the example he gave, we knew that prosecutors wanted to inquire about Antonio Costa and even Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and that this was not allowed, which was widely reported by the press. We know that a public prosecutor's directive was now trying to spread the situation a little bit about what prosecutors, who have the duty to investigate, could do. We have even heard a well-known journalist report this week that the Prime Minister has called TVI to say goodbye. And all of this is, in fact, following what you said, this'vesselisation' of the regime, which is worrying. [[PS protests.]] They do not like the expression « venezuelisation», Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Take it easy! Perhaps now we can see the contours that led to the exit of the former Attorney General of the Republic, Joana Marques Vidal, and the arrival of the new Attorney General of the Republic. But I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether or not you think it is useful to review the rules for the appointment of the Attorney-General of the Republic himself, which will always be in the scheme that we have, in any way, hostage to the political power installed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u412	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u413	I will finish, Mr. President. I also ask you, Mr President, if you agree to revise the rules of election for the Constitutional Court, because as long as these powers are not truly independent, we will not be able to have independence of justice in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u414	Now you have the floor, too, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u415	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the «Applause» which has just shown the lack of dignity of his speech. [[Hey!]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u416	The honourable Member has made a painful intervention here at various levels. The honourable Member began by saying that justice is blind, that justice has a sale, and the honourable Member has made an intervention to, excuse me, the expression « populist boy-expert». It is because you know that populism today is feeding on a number of things, one of them being talking about justice in such a foolish way or talking about corruption with common places, without saying much. The honourable Member starts by speaking about the separation of powers. Now, to begin with, you should know what the rule of law is and then you should know what the separation of powers is before you talk about it. You don't know what the judge's duty to reserve or what the separation of powers is. It is because you are talking about specific cases that are being tried and you think this Parliament should be replaced by the judiciary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH Member's Protests André Ventura.]] So I do not know whether you want to make a constitutional review or whether you are simply outside the constitutional framework. The honourable Member says he does not understand how the Attorney-General of the Republic requested an opinion and wants to know how she dared to request an opinion. But what does the honourable Member have to do with that? Oh, my God! You don't know what that has to do with it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u417	I must not be hearing well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u418	Do you think he should order the Attorney-General of the Republic? Oh, my God! Look that's very serious in terms of separation of powers! That is very serious in terms of separation of powers! [[P.S.'s applause.]] He then says that he is amazed at the criteria for appointing judges to the Constitutional Court. Do you know that these criteria stem from the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic? Once again, the honourable Member is outside the Portuguese constitutional framework! I know that you are defending an ideology, it is in your right, but Mr President, we have a constitutional framework and that is where you have to move. So these jokes, that justice is very bad, that everything is very bad, have no real basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u419	Oh, no! Justice is great!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u420	Frankly, it was an outrage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u421	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u422	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Mr André Ventura and Isabel Moreira. Starting with Mrs Moreira, I mean that I do not intend to have moral authority to tell her what is worthy and what is unworthy of her interventions. I think I should comment on the subject I've dealt with, without distorting it, by now. I did not mention any particular cases, except to give an example, but that was not what I was dealing with, and I certainly did not ask why the Attorney-General of the Republic had asked for an opinion, I did not question authority or legitimacy to do so. Now, why is it that someone who has been in charge for so long as this attorney already feels the need to ask for an Advisory Council, which is appointed from among judges who are part of the Public Prosecutor's Office itself, in a basically internal system, to clarify its powers of process management? Why does this happen, Mrs. Member? Can you tell me? Why was it necessary to clarify the powers of the Attorney General of the Republic? Has something changed in recent years? Something has happened within the Public Prosecutor's Office, or external pressures or internal pressures, in order to strengthen the logic of the internal direction of the processes. If it is unworthy to ask this, if it is unworthy to think that this is a form of justice that is not working, I don't know more than you say, Mrs. This appreciation will remain with you. With regard to what Mr Ventura asks me, yes, it can involve constitutional amendments even if we want to change how the Attorney-General of the Republic and the judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. Yes, there may be that need. It doesn't cost me, I don't think that's also a case of read-majesty, and I think more: I think that this general atmosphere of confusion between the Socialist Party and the State is not only in the area of justice, in which I am more concerned today, but it covers other things. The way in which the Socialist Party olympically ignores the public services and the chaos in public services and other matters, the way in which it "pushes with the belly" or hopes that such issues as that cited in the case of the TVI journalist who felt pressured and that no one came to clarify, waiting for it to pass, and we were left without knowing whether or not there is any truth in that, all these are signs that something is deeply wrong in our country and that is what I wanted to bring here to Parliament today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u423	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Monica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u424	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the PSD rejects the charges it has made and does not embark on populisms. However, the concerns expressed by Mr President of the PSD regarding justice are public and, therefore, he has repeatedly spoken about the need for structural reform in justice. The news brought to the public naturally causes a lot of concern, particularly when they point to the violation of basic principles in which justice is based and, by necessity, the rule of democratic law. The autonomy of the Public Ministry, the independence and impartiality of the courts impose the observance of the principles of legality, objectivity and natural justice. There are known situations in which the Public Prosecutor himself refers to being present at the time of the distribution of proceedings in the higher courts. That says a lot, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is also why the PSD Parliamentary Group has already made a request, which was approved today in 1. the Commission, in order to hear the Minister of Justice, which protects the ISFEJ (Instituto de Gesão Financià et Equipements de Jécurité ), which is responsible for the computer application of the electronic distribution of the courts, to provide the necessary explanations for the full clarification of the situation. It tells mythology that, indeed, justice has a sale to be blind. And you are blind, Mr. Member, so that you can judge impartially, without looking at who. We all know that, it's an old principle of Roman law. And for the citizen to remain calm it is necessary to clarify, it is necessary to provide clarifications on what has happened in various situations that have been brought to the public. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u425	You have the floor to answer, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u426	Mr President, Mrs Monica Quintela, thank you for your speech. I didn't have a question at the end, but I'm telling you, I'm very sorry to hear the reaffirmation that the PSD is still a paladin of the separation of powers. I therefore expected — and hence the quote I made — that there would be more energy, more assertiveness in the positions of the party and its president in relation to the cases...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u427	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u428	Yeah, even more. He looked forward to more energy and assertivity in the positions of the party and its president in relation to the nominations to the Constitutional Court, in respect of what happened in the Attorney-General's Office. I am sorry but, as the main party of the opposition, I expected, indeed, more. But I think that the statement of principle that they continue to be an ally in this war of separation of powers, not letting the State be taken by one force, is an important declaration. Therefore, we hope that in cases which will now become a parliamentary issue, with the hearings to Mr. President of the Public Ministry's Magistrates' Unions and the requirements that we will certainly make next to other hearings, we can count on the support of the PSD in these steps, so that we know exactly what is going on in this very important pillar of the rule of law in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u429	We therefore conclude the point on political declarations. It follows the third point of our order of business, with the appreciation of Petition No 562 / XIII / 4. a ( Paulo Martins de Almeida et al.) — By the urgent re-qualification of the national road No 225, together with the Resolution Projects No 72 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent reclassification of national road No 225, 133 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — By urgent re-qualification of national road No 225, 121 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225, 236 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent re-qualification of national road Nos 225 and 60 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all who use EN225. So let's start this appreciation. You have the floor, for an intervention to present the draft resolution of BE, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u430	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, and on behalf of the Left Block, I wanted to congratulate the various authorships that are here today and that have been dynamizers of this petition, which has more than 4000 signatures. It is a petition that was debated during the year 2019, in committee, in this House, and where it was evident during the hearings that the security problems associated with the state of this route are very worrying. The Left Block has accompanied this matter. At the end of last week, we were also on the national road No. 225, where we could see the problems that have been identified by the petition, by the authorities. It is an accidental and dangerous journey, which is at a high level of degradation. Only in the section between Castro Daire and Cabril is it possible to find holes on the road, degradation of horizontal signaling, floor abatements, falling stones, insufficient lateral protection and non-existent security guards for motorcycles, constant suppressions of the road and relief of support walls on virtually all the way, some months ago without any cleaning of the route. This happens for several kilometers, on a road used daily both by light and heavy cars. For example, every day the transport of children to schools is done by that road. Traffic has also increased as a result of increased visits to the Pacific corridors, on the most economical part. We can also look at the examples sent to this Parliament about ambulance trips with accidents and we realize that it takes hours to get to the nearest hospital. We therefore consider it important that urgent measures be taken for the re-qualification of this road, for the safety of people who have no alternative to travel on a daily basis, but also because, when we talk so much about the bet on the inside — we still had this debate today — the conditions of accessibility must be of quality, either for the fixing of companies, who will not "fall out of the air" in the territories, or even for the tourist activity along the Paiva River and the corridors themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u431	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u432	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing projects from all parties, but despite commitments made by the PS and the government to the autarchs, nothing has yet advanced in this work. The PS itself, however, presented a draft resolution which, as you well knew, could no longer be scheduled for today's plenary. You can see the embarrassment, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the debate. What is needed is that we can move forward to what really matters, which is the approval of re-qualification of the national road No. 225, and return to the region, populations and authorities conditions of comfortable and safe mobility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u433	You have the floor for an intervention to present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u434	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens follow the concern expressed in the petition for the urgent re-qualification of the national road No 225 and we begin our intervention by greeting all petitioners. National road No. 225, with a length of 90 km, connects the municipalities of Vila Nova de Paiva — the junction of the regional road No. 329 — to Castelo de Paiva, crossing the municipalities of Castro Daire, Cinfanes and Arouca, forming a fundamental road axis for the development of this region. This route, which passes through numerous villages, is essential for the mobility of people, not only at local level but also for the economic development of this region, where the effects of interiority are clearly visible, with also national relevance, in particular by linking this area of the interior of the country, with mountainous features, to one of the main roads of the region, to A24, near the village of Castro Daire. EN225 is indispensable for the development and tourist attraction, since the beauty of the Paiva valley has attracted many people who in this region can enjoy its environmental quality and its landscape. National road No. 225 presents structural problems, in particular the section linking the village of Castro Daire to Cabril, which is in a deplorable state and in marked degradation. There are numerous holes visible on the road, there are no walks in the areas that cross the villages, it is visible the degradation of the horizontal signaling, the abatements and their irregularities on the floor, the fall of stones and the risk of demolition of some stems — the last of which at the beginning of November of last year — the insufficient lateral protection and no safety guards for the motorcyclists on the rails placed. There are constant suppressions on the road and threats of relief of support walls, among other situations that call into question the safety of those who use this route. Therefore, it is necessary to promote the essential conditions of full safe circulation, and this road axis is fundamental to the development of that region, while safeguarding the public interest and the safety of populations and users. The Greens recommend that the Government urgently promote the national road retraining work No 225 in order to ensure the safety and reduction of travel times spent by the people and companies operating on this road. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u435	You now have the floor for an intervention to present the draft resolution of the CDS, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u436	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the petitioners, from the city of Castro Daire, and to say that what all these draft resolutions address, as is done by the petition — and I would like to stress the importance of mobilisation around this petition – is a matter related to the substantial degradation of a communication channel that links the districts of Viseu and Aveiro and which has in the district of Viseu, specifically in the municipality of Castro Daire, one of the areas where its state of degradation is more serious. The tracing itself is sinuous—and anyone who knows the area realizes why—has problems that worsen at this time of year, due to the meteorological conditions mainly related to the accumulation of ice on the road, and at all this adds a very marked state of degradation and an irregularity of the route that further hinders circulation. in this sense, it is obvious that there is a need for a road retraining intervention that allows the replacement of the conditions of movement, and even in terms of safety, to be added to the conditions that one day there was on that road. It is obvious that the Government has to define priority interventions. However, I do not think that any of the parties here present draft resolutions are capable of denying or calling into question is that this is indeed a priority intervention, in a region where normally the State is late or not at all. Therefore, it made sense that the Government, as soon as possible and following the adoption of these draft resolutions, could promote the re-qualification of the national road No 225.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u437	You have the floor for an intervention to present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u438	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group begins by complimenting the more than 4000 petitioners, who defend the urgent re-qualification of the national road No 225, which the CFP accompanies. That is why we are presenting here today this draft resolution, in which we consider that the state of degradation of the national road No. 225 is of such order that it requires non palliative, not small works but, in fact, an integral requalification, so that there is a circulation with safety conditions and road comfort for all those who use that road, both those who do it daily and those who occasionally use it. This is a relevant issue. We have already talked about the issue of the Paiva corridors and the entire Paiva valley, basically a tourist contribution that is important for the development of that region. Thus, a good business card would be to have good conditions of circulation on that road, but in fact, those who travel there every day feel great difficulties and this must be taken into account. The floor is degraded, there are suppressions, the problems are many on a path that is, already, sinuous, in which there are lack of protection rails, in which there are barriers, in which there are bearings, in which there are constraints to the movement of heavy ones — in some parts simultaneously — and all this creates very great traffic difficulties. So it seems to us that the national road No 225 and the people served by it cannot continue to wait. If there is a way to contribute to the establishment of population in that region, to the development at industrial level, at the tourist level, finally, for all the harmonious development of that area, then this must be done and this must be prioritized. That's what the CFP proposes. We believe that, with several draft resolutions in the same direction, there are all the conditions for the government to finally take this situation into its hands. So what we are doing here today is reaffirming this commitment. With this draft resolution we urge the Government to proceed, as a matter of urgency — because this is indeed an urgent situation — to fully re-qualify the national road No 225, especially the section between Castro Daire and Arouca. We welcome once again the mobilization that was possible to achieve around this initiative and we will do everything to continue it, so that it will effectively succeed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u439	You have the floor for an intervention to present the draft resolution of the PSD, Mr Pedro Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by complimenting the petitioners present and all the petitioners. I leave a special greeting to the President of the House of Castro Daire, Dr. Paulo Almeida, and in him I also greet all the autarchs who pushed this cause because, more than fair, it is urgent to ensure the safety of all those who travel on the national road No. 225. This initiative is therefore the unequivocal demonstration that we like and want to continue living in the country. It is the demonstration of the indignation of an entire permanently forgotten population. It is the demonstration that it is not always necessary to create different incentives or statutes for the most disadvantaged regions, only the State is required to comply with its obligation and not to lack commitments, only equality and nothing more is required. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern about the conservation status of EN225 is not recent for the PSD. We all know the relevance of this route, because it is a fundamental axis of the economic and social activities of the territory and in the fixing of populations, we all know the degraded state of the floor, the ravines, the constant falls of barriers on the way of movement, the sinuosity that permanently undermines the safety of its users. We heard populations, we heard firemen, the city halls, and we read a lot of reports. And in practice, what has been done so far? Nothing! Mere and small reactive and palliative interventions, to correct barriers falls, erect support walls or cover some holes. It takes a lot more than this. We can't wait for the tragedy to happen, while about 300 students travel on that road every day, while we've seen the tourist importance of the route of access to the Passadizos do Paiva or while the distance to health care is measured more in time than in miles. This was the recent case of a polytraumatized patient, resulting from an accident in Parada de Ester, which took about three hours to travel a distance of 60 km until reaching the hospital of Viseu, and only 20 km are on the national road No. 225. The rest of the route is done on the highway and on quality routes. This is, then, the reality that the petitioners bring to us and this is also the reason for the PSD draft resolution presented here today. Over the past four years, the PS, the Left Block, the PCP, the PEV and also the PAN have forgotten the interior of the country, forgot Castro Daire, forgot EN225. They speak in cohesion and asymmetry between the coast and the interior, but in practice the priorities of these four years were other and never were people. They want to wash their hands now. The truth is that if they had fulfilled the PSD / CDS government commitment, they would have made a great repair on this route, worth EUR 3, 5 million between 2016 and 2018, and today we would not need to be here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, if nothing happens again this year, which is approved as the State Budget, those responsible are easy to identify: all the left wing of Parliament, which has approved the Budget, and also the government bench, which is empty to not give us the answers and which has the obligation to implement this Budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u441	Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u442	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners, my fellow citizens, here present for the requalification of the national road No 225. The initiatives under discussion recommend that the Government reclassify the national road No. 225, which links Castro Daire to Arouca, also serving the neighbouring municipalities of Castelo de Paiva, Cinfanes and Vila Nova de Paiva. National road No 225 for a long time has not been implemented and re-qualified. It is the main link for the population of the municipalities that crosses for school transport, emergency and relief services and for access to facilities for the provision of goods and services. It is also set up as an alternative road when the Montemuro saw is dressed as white, thus making its natural landscape even more beautiful, but on the other hand, becoming a wasteland for people who have to cross the mountain daily, because it cannot circulate on the national road No. 321, nor is it guaranteed alternative. Empowering the interior in its various areas — economic, cultural, tourism — has been a flag and a challenge in the policies of the socialist government, but accessibility must continue to be considered. National road No. 225 is a road with particular tourist, local and regional interest—for example, I would like to mention the Paiva Passediços, of great relevance to the economic and social development of this region in the interior of the country—, as well as an important axis for the maintenance of local and regional economic activities, ranging from agro-food production, increasingly known and the target of new investments in recent years, to the most modern ones, such as the exploitation of renewable energy, allowing access to exploration points. National road No 225 is recognised as important for the development of the surrounding territory, for the tourism development and for the fixing of persons, i.e. for regional and national cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u443	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u444	Thus, it is our understanding—even because the Socialist Party, still in the previous legislature, also brought about a draft resolution—that the Government, in the current legislature, promotes the conditions for the implementation of the works of re-qualification of the national road No. 225, in order to ensure the movement of persons and goods in security between the municipalities of Arouca and Vila Nova de Paiva. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u445	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u446	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I also greet the petitioners and the autarchs present today. We are not surprised at the intervention of the Socialist Party. Usually, it's always something like this: it's very important, it's made a description of the situation, something more or less, and then, in the end, you don't realize very well where we are. In fact, only one thing is missing: thank the PCP, the Left Block and the PAN...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u447	A PAN? Oh, my God! They don't even have a project! What are you saying? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u448	... because they brought this matter so important and, in the end, they say they'll think more about what they're going to do. [[PS protests.]] The truth is that one of the authors in question said that it had been promised to open the contest at the end of the year, but, as we are already used, the end of the year has become the beginning of this year, probably goes to the second quarter, to the third, to the fourth, and we will continue here discussing the same thing! This is a road in deplorable conditions, with lubrications, falling barriers. It's a huge security risk. Even last week, the firefighters' intervention was marked by a regrettable delay in terms of a rescue operation due to road conditions and we continue to discuss whether it is at the end of the year, next year or next. We had a government that, already in the past legislature, said it was a work with priority, we had The Greens, who said they had already gone there and said it was a work with priority, but then they always give their hands to the same gentlemen, who do absolutely nothing on this road!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u449	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u450	You'll see as soon as it's gone! The project of André Ventura is good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u451	You can believe that the road was already made, if it were with André Ventura. Absolutely! [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Absolutely! The road was already done, it was ready. It was already fixed. If I had to, with my own hands! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u452	Be serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u453	Mr. Deputies, your time has been running out for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u454	I shall end, Mr President, by saying only this: this is not a political game issue. It should be — indeed, as the Left Block itself has indicated — a matter of unanimity, because what is at stake is the safety of all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-26.u455	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries on this point, so we can end it. I have to announce tomorrow's agenda. This is a powerful agenda of the Left Block, on the assessment of several legislative initiatives dealing with banking commissions and bank minimum service accounts. Together, the Bills Nos 137 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of the credits granted to consumption ( fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June ), 138 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the obligation and the free issue of the diversion and settlement of the loan, eliminates fees charged by the processing of credit benefits, also prohibiting credit institutions from unilaterally modifying the contractual conditions of claims granted to housing ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ), 139 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Consecrates the prohibition on the collection of charges by credit institutions in transactions carried out on electronic platforms operated by third parties ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January ) and 140 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the system of access to the universal basic account ( generally ), the Draft Resolution No 143 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the development of guidelines for the banking commissions policy of the General Deposit Box, Bills Nos 205 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January, extending the prohibition of charging for the provision of payment services and the conduct of operations to operations carried out through digital applications, 206 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers, 209 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of any commissions, expenses or charges in cases where a customer service is not effectively provided by credit institutions ( first amendment to Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July ), 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services for housing credit, credit for consumption and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties, 216 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 27 - C / 2000 of 10 March, which creates the system of access to minimum banking services, and 217 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Restricts the collection of bank fees by amending Decree-Law No 133 / 2009 of 2 June 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 74 -A / 2017 of 23 June ( in general ). For today, our work is finished. The next session will be tomorrow at 3 p.m., as you know. I wish everyone a very good night. See you tomorrow. [[It was 19 hours and 12 minutes.]]
