ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha's Secretary for the reading of the dossier. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 520 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 521 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 522 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 523 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). Resolution Nos 638 / XIV / 2 were also included in the Bureau. a (PEV), 643 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 644 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 645 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 646 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 647 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 648 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 649 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 650 / XIV / 2. a ( PEV), 651 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 652 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 653 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 654 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 655 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 656 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 657 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 658 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 659 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 660 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 661 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 662 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). I also give an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members to authorize the suspension of the mandate of Mr André Silva ( PAN) of the Lisbon electoral circle, being replaced by Nelson José Basílio Silva, for the period from 23 September to 23 October, including. This is due to the fact that the honourable Member has been a father and, as such, will enjoy the right conferred on him by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u3	Mrs. Members have certainly heard the announcement of this replacement, and I congratulate the honourable Member who was a father — he and his son. Let us then vote on this opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously, registering the absence of CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u4	A few restful nights! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u5	Mr. João Oliveira, from the PCP, wishes parents a few restful nights! He had this experience just a short time ago... Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a background noise which will certainly be disturbing for the speeches of our colleagues to follow, and I am therefore grateful that the conditions for us to continue our work are created. We will enter the agenda, of which the first point is the assessment of the draft resolution No 307 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to enhance associations that promote gender balance in their social bodies. To give an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Freedom and equality are the cornerstones of our democracy. The defence of these is up to everyone who believes and wants to keep our democratic system alive. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to make this defense. Yesterday, today and tomorrow, we will keep the same eye on the fundamental values and principles of the Constitution. We will do everything we can to respect it, to honor it, to defend it. We know that it is a constant, daily task that is never finished, and therefore we maintain and strengthen our commitment to defend and contribute to improving the democratic functioning of the institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I have always done so with the same acuity and the same assertivity. Whenever we invest in public services, we guarantee and strengthen democracy. Whenever we invest in the National Health Service, in public transport, in public school, in public administration, we guarantee and strengthen democracy. Whenever we introduce mechanisms to combat inequalities into legislation, we guarantee and strengthen democracy. And this fight against inequalities is also a daily struggle, because the variables that cause imbalances are many and constant. Let's overshadow gender inequalities. It was António Guterres who, in his Government, introduced gender balance mechanisms into the lists of candidates for different bodies. Many, however, have been the amendments enshrined in the law of parity that have significantly altered the panorama, such as that of the House of Democracy. in this House in 1999 there were 40 women sitting here, today we are 90. But we know that this reality does not recur when we look at all places and all structures or social bodies of associations, vital organs of civic activity. And that's why we need to think about ways to break up with installed practices. It is necessary to create mechanisms that enable and promote taste for civic activity and that contribute to alter the perception about equality and the importance of balanced participation in its organs. It is therefore up to us to find ways to promote social change, to promote effective and full citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes, through this draft resolution, that the Government initiate the procedures necessary to make public use of private law associations — whether cultural, environmental, trade union, student, youth, sport or humanitarian — that promote gender balance in the bodies of the general assembly, the fiscal council and the management. With the introduction of variables that contribute to more balanced civic and political participation, we guarantee the construction of a more sustainable future and a more just society and contribute to the growth of our democracy. With this draft resolution, we emphasize Article 9. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which defines as one of its main tasks the promotion of equality between men and women. But we also emphasize Article 109. the, stressing that « the direct and active participation of men and women in political life is a fundamental condition and instrument for the consolidation of the democratic system, and the law should promote equality in the exercise of civic and political rights ». We have thus contributed to the implementation of active policies of equality, recognizing that equality and non-discrimination are essential conditions for the construction of a sustainable future for Portugal, as a country that effectively implements human rights and fully enshrines the participation of all and all. We therefore call on the civic participation of all those who feel the importance of ensuring the vitality of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u8	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament. Equality between men and women is, of course, one of the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and, as such, it is the responsibility of the State to promote it in all areas of social life. We have no doubt that we still live in a society that promotes gender stereotypes, which conditions educational and professional choices, that maintains wage inequality, that maintains segregation in leadership and leadership positions, that often creates the conditions for women's unequal participation and political representation, but also the unequal distribution in the exercise of parental responsibilities, family responsibilities, home responsibilities, that promotes the feminization of precariousness, poverty and social exclusion. We know that women are the most pressing, urgent and deeper victims in all crises, who are always the most subject to precariousness, poverty and social exclusion and who are therefore the first to suffer the consequences and in the most serious way. We are still living in a society in which violence against women and feminicides are unfortunately still part of the daily lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u10	We therefore welcome all initiatives that seek to promote and deepen gender equality and combat any discrimination. It is undeniable that the participation of women and men in equality is a key factor for the development of any society, whether in the decision-making and leadership bodies of the State — in which, in fact, we have already made changes — whether in civil society organisations, the object of the draft resolution brought here by the Socialist Party. We agree that promoting equal representation in the social bodies of private law associations is an important way to achieve this goal, but it seems to us that we need to take care of some specificities. I am speaking in particular of women's rights associations, especially those working in the area of combating violence against women and protecting victims. The specificity of its object and its scope of action must be considered so as not to be placed at the same level as other associations. To what extent is it appropriate for the mission and objectives of these associations, which deal closely with so many sensitive situations and of enormous fragility, the parity representation? If it's desirable? Obviously, the question is the concrete reality in which we still live and in which these very specific associations operate, and we believe that they cannot be disadvantaged by this specificity. Finally, we have some doubts about the meaning of public valuation of associations. It is not understood what it means to « publicly value associations that promote gender balance in their social bodies ». Are these prizes? In fact, it is a very vague expression and it is not clear what the objective is and what this is going to happen. If it is about awarding prizes, we say from now on that we find it strange to award something that should arise from collective responsibility and respect for the principle of gender equality that any entity should have. Pressing what is due does not seem to us an appropriate solution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us, of course, begin by welcoming the Socialist Party for bringing this initiative to debate, even though it is only a small step on a long path that we still have to take in relation to gender equality policies. We cannot fail to remember that the study of the balance sheet of the implementation of the law of parity at different levels of government, carried out by the IGC (Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality), brought us an analysis of how the law of parity is being implemented in Portugal, including regarding the evolution of the presence of women and men, for example, in politics. In Portugal, it is clear that the law of parity has in fact had a significant impact on the composition of this Chamber, as we could hear from the honourable Member. The European Parliament is also no exception in view of the increase in the Portuguese participation of elected women, which increased from 36, 4 % in 2009 to 38, 1 % in 2014. Therefore, for those conservative parties who thought quotas were not part of the solution, here we see how they were obviously necessary. In the case of the NAP, we have always highlighted the high percentage of women on the lists, and we also recall that we recently proposed the minimum representation of 40 % of each gender in the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal, which is expected not to be postponed continuously. But the law, in order to be fulfilled, cannot, in fact, be at least necessary. It is also essential that the letter and its spirit be assimilated so that the interiorization and evolution that must take place and that has been delayed. Otherwise, see the 2020 World Report on Gender Inequality, conducted by the World Economic Forum, which alerts us that about 100 years are still needed — a century! — to eliminate gender inequalities, which still persist throughout the world. Data from 2019, very recent, give us an overview in which, globally, women occupied only 25 % of Parliament's seats. Now, this is as if we looked at this House and, in fact, women were underrepresented, because everything else was once again a male face. In addition to political life, we must not forget that Portugal is also on the line of Europe in relation to those who are the executive positions of companies. This is precisely why it seems to us that the Socialist Party's proposal falls short of the fundamental change that we make in our society, because in companies we have only 16, 2 % of women taking leadership positions, well below countries such as France, which has 43% of women in these bodies, Italy, with 34 %, or Spain, with 22 %, in addition to the well-known wage disparities. The listed companies, the large state companies, the private companies present some significant developments with regard to women's participation in management positions. They do not cease to be positive advances, but this representation continues to be lower in positions of great responsibility. For the NAP, it is essential that gender equality be a clear objective of the country's policies. Without these policies, gender inequalities remain unalterable and accentuated at various levels, whether local or national. In conclusion, we would, in fact, like to see if the PS is available to go further. We shall, of course, follow up on this proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u13	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u14	I conclude now, Mr President. As I said, we will obviously follow this proposal, but it seems to us that we must go further in combating gender inequality and that businesses should also be given the premiums for good practice in these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u15	Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented by the Socialist Party today deals with gender equality, a subject which can be covered by the agenda of the political debate of Parliament and successive governments and which has been the subject of several legislative measures aimed at achieving equal representation in several entities. I would like to remind this House that the PSD governments have adopted a lot of legislation in this area in the period from 2012 to 2015, namely: the resolution establishing the presence of women and men in the administrative and supervisory positions of companies in the state business sector and the adoption of equality plans in 2012 ; the Framework Law of Independent Administrative Entities, establishing the gender alternation in the chair of the boards of administration and in vowes, with the minimum representation of 33 % each gender in 2013 ; the amendment of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, which set targets for the balanced representation of men and women in 2014 ; the conclusion of a commitment with companies listed in stock exchange for the promotion of greater balance in the representation of women and men in the boards of administration in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative acquis encourages the balanced representation of men and women in the various entities. The diplomas approved in this field were widely discussed, not only in this House as a forum for social consultation and with public and private companies, to which these laws were intended. Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, despite this draft resolution to fight for principles of achieving parity representation, we were unable to perceive, for various reasons, what the Socialist Party proposes by recommending to the Government an appreciation of private law associations. First reason: many associations are self-representative associations. Associates may form an association because they have in common a circumstance that unites them and which may be very specific, for example, because they have been victims of an accident or injustice. If, by any chance, all the victims of this accident were only men and, therefore, the association only included men, would the government somehow devalue this association because it did not include women in social organs? Second reason : Article 46. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which enshrines freedom of association and the principle of the internal autonomy of associations, is very clear when it determines that, and I quote, « the associations go on freely their purposes without interference from the public authorities ». Question : How does the Socialist Party think to develop such measures without going against the Constitution? in valuing associations to the detriment of others, would not the government force the associations to change their internal structure and thus interfere in the dynamics with which they pursue their purposes, and could even question the purposes for which they were constituted? Third reason: the draft resolution proposes something that may harm its own purpose, because its impact on women's associations would be devastating to them. Women's associations are self-representative associations, such as youth associations, associations of people with disabilities, emigrant associations, etc. Limiting the participation and representativeness of women in associations concerned by them is to go against the spirit of the law of women's associations, Law No 107 / 2015 of 25 August, and against that laid down in Article 4. CEDAW, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD believes that this draft resolution of the Socialist Party, although well-intentioned, is too vague and has some clarity as to its concrete objectives, in particular as to how to value these associations, and must be the target of a broad debate with the associations concerned. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u17	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u18	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura on the project presented here, which I have read very carefully. Madam Member, the CDS cannot fail to subscribe to some of the aspects which the preamble of the initiative establishes, for example, with regard to the direct and active participation of men and women in equal exercise of rights as provided for in Article 109. the Constitution, and what is mentioned on the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, in order to ensure the enjoyment of the rights of men and women in the same terms. So nothing to say and nothing against. It is also known that, in previous legislatures, the CDS, for reasons relating to the type of instruments chosen for the pursuit of these interests, had reservations that made the bench of this freedom of voting and in this sense also contributed in some way to positive votes, to laws which are referred to here, such as the law of parity, whether with regard to private undertakings or with regard to public administration and holders of public office. Therefore, with regard to this draft resolution, the problem does not have to do with the general principles described here — nor could it — but with the instruments chosen, or in good rigour, with the absence of the instruments chosen. It is, in fact, that the recommendation — which is what we are voting on here — says 'to recommend to the Government to initiate necessary procedures'. Now, although I have been here in the House for five years and have dealt with these matters, I confess that I do not disagree with this expression as "necessary procedures", but, as the honourable Member still has one minute and 41 seconds, he will certainly explain to me what are "necessary procedures". And what are these necessary procedures for? To « publicly value ». Well, I have some doubts here too. What is this, Mrs. Member? Is it a letter of praise from Mr. Prime Minister saying that associations have gender balance in their organs and are therefore being well behaved? Or is it — I fear — discrimination in access, for example, to finance, often dependent on, or on access to other public funds? As I say to you, the question is not in the principles, but in the instruments chosen, and, above that, nothing is withdrawn from here. So it would be very interesting to be able, in fact, to pursue active policies of equality, so that we might be a little more concrete about what we have seen. Otherwise, it is a statement of principles and even Mrs Deputies could have made a vote, which we voted in favour and we were all content in it, because, in good rigour, between a vote and this draft resolution, it does not differ at all. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, the case of women's associations has already been mentioned here and, indeed, looking, for example, at UMAR (Union of Alternative Women and Response), which has 4 women and 0 men in the direction, 19 women and 0 men vowals and 3 women and 0 men in the General Assembly, I think that it would soon be one of those who would have to take a public reprimand, precisely for failing to comply with gender equality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u19	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The participation of women in political and association life is still in 2020, given as a difficulty, a problem. The Greens believe that the discussion should always be promoted, but above all, the change of mentality should be promoted, with education for equality, for respect for human rights, and the participation of all must be ensured. The path to equality must be taken, naturally, with fundamental measures, in which the central element will not, as the PS proposes today, be publicly valued in any place in any framework of honor of associations or through the award of medals, who knows. We cannot fail to note the absence of concrete measures that value the role of women in society, so this project can only be a kind of deliberation to relieve good souls. If what was intended was to promote equality in the exercise of civil and political rights and non-discrimination on the basis of gender in access to political positions, we should be discussing the application of concrete measures to enable everyone to participate, such as ensuring a free network of public day care centres, increasing wages in order to ensure everyone, and particularly women, conditions to live their lives fully. I recall that promoting women's participation is not changing the law of work, as the PS has done, to facilitate the introduction of group-hour banks, deregulation of the lives of women and men, creating numerous barriers to participation. And this is happening particularly in sectors with quite a female workforce, such as the large distribution. In the 21st century, women are still discriminated against because they are women and this is visible in the most basic right, which is to have a job. It is never too much to remember that, looking at unemployment figures in all districts, the number of unemployed women today is much greater than that of men. Finally, and since we speak in associations, I do not want to lose the opportunity to remember that these associations need to be valued by the work they develop in the areas they are dedicated to and in the places where they are installed, but this appreciation should go through the guarantee of the necessary support at this difficult stage for all, so that they are able to overcome the difficulties that have already come from behind and that have increased in the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u21	Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Equality between men and women is a constitutional design, a secular struggle and a battle of our times. Equal participation of women and men, gender balance in associations and other steps in our collective life are, logically, the corollary of this desired equality in law and in life. More: the participation of women in the various dimensions of life, including associative dimension, is a necessary condition for the realization of democracy. There is only democracy with the participation of all and all. It is therefore essential that women not only be in associations, as they perform all existing functions or positions, including positions of leadership. But when it is proposed, as the draft resolution says, "to publicly value associations that promote gender balance in their organs", in addition to being vague, two steps are missing. For now, there must be associations, that the association movement survives the pandemic and the total absence of responses to the vital difficulties that are placed, and it is necessary that the draft resolution does not turn against the associations that work exactly with women. After that, women must not get stuck with real and very concrete obstacles to their participation as an association and do not have their energies absorbed by work, poverty, double working hours, unemployment. Therefore, at the moment, what makes it dependent on a greater or lesser degree of participation of women in associativeism, Mrs. Members, but not only in political life, is necessarily the option to respond to the crisis caused by COVID. If the option is to penalise again the popular layers and the working women, keeping the privileges of capital, then this will represent a backwardness in equality policy. We can be sure of that. It was with the April Revolution that was the largest participatory leap of women and an exponential growth of the popular associative movement. It will be looking at the Constitution that was born from April and fulfilling what is written there that will achieve equality of participation and a more effective popular participation. What is today for all those who are in this struggle to see equality happen is to face the causes of imbalances based on sex and fight them. If women are those who have the most precarious ties, those who earn less, those who take care of family and domestic work, those who suffer the most from violence, then it is necessary to end the jungle in the world of work, with the low wages, with the insufficiency of social responses and free women for participation. It is not time to spread the deep causes of this grueling inequality with administrative and artificial mechanisms, which may even have the best intentions, but which affect the consequences and not the causes of this inequality. Woman in democracy is not room biombo. Participation needs to be encouraged every day, in all areas. So here is the challenge, when voting amendments to labour law, when it comes to public services and social support in maternity, for example, when it comes to day care, working hours, Mr. Members are consistent with the noble causes set out here and take political options to promote equality of rights and opportunities in life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u23	Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking you for your contributions to the discussion here and, at first, say that most of the comments and comments we have heard are in agreement with our draft resolution. it was in the spirit of doubt, which has to do with the fact that it can be understood that what the Socialist Party's draft resolution intends is to devalue or end the work of associations specifically constituted by women. Clearly, that is not the spirit in the draft resolution. These associations do absolutely worthwhile work and have contributed to positive discrimination, which we obviously want to maintain. What we want is to add, what we want is to bring more women to civic participation, because this participation is also a political participation. And it is good to remind Mrs Lina Lopes that, in 2019, it was the PSD that made it impossible for us to have in 50 % the first two places on the lists, women and men or women.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u26	That, yes, would have been a very significant step in gender equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to say the following: gender policies are valuation mechanisms here, in Portugal, and in Europe, as we know, and they do not have to be prizes, but they can be prizes. The draft resolution is not a bill, as you will know better than I will, so open the door for the government to find, even with the associations, the best methodology. The only thing we want, and we can guarantee it also to Mrs Alma Rivera, is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u27	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u28	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the only thing we want, and which we can guarantee, is the survival of associations and the guarantee of women's participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u29	With no further inscriptions, we will close this point. [[Pause.]] Looks like there's a last-minute registration. Mrs Lina Lopes, you have the floor to waste the time you still have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u30	Mr President, first of all, I apologize for not writing me down in time to use the floor. Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, what is the importance of having a man and a woman or a woman and a man in the first and second places? What I really care about is the percentage of men and women on the lists. So what if I wanted to have two women? Couldn't I have?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u31	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u32	What about two men? Don't you? This is the case: whether we want or do not want equality, and we are limiting this equality is also counterproductive for women. Madam Member, what we were discussing was the public appreciation of associations. How are you going to value and how is it going to do in relation to women's associations, which we're still discussing...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u33	I've answered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u34	No, you didn't! No, you didn't! If they are women's associations, such as UMAR — Alternative Women's Union and Response, they won't value anything! When they make a draft resolution, you should think about all the points. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u35	To close the debate, I give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this initiative, we want to strengthen the idea that aims at correcting gender imbalances in the leaderships of cultural associations, environmental associations, youth, students and others, thus providing an incentive to change installed practices that hinder women's access to leadership. This project aims and respects the specificities of the associations, in particular the associations of women, Mrs Lina Lopes, which adopt positive measures in line with Article 4. that of CEDAW, as you well say, to break down obstacles of equality. [[Protests from PSD MP Lina Lopes.]] But these associations — Madam Member, listen! — they no longer need these stimuli, they need, yes, others, that we will discuss here in due course, because they themselves are already a stimulus to all the others. The year 2020 is paradoxical, it is striking for equality. On the one hand, we note the 40 years of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the 25 years of the Beijing Platform for Action, central international instruments in combating discrimination against women, when principles of equality, law and respect for human dignity are violated. On the other hand, we are trying to curb setbacks, since this pandemic crisis has accentuated gender gaps, it has become obvious structural inequalities and threats with historical retreats, if women continue to ensure, as in confinement, the almost exclusiveness of domestic work, the work of care, not yet properly valued and unpaid. This is therefore an initiative on the basis of the Socialist Party's matrix and so many laws that we have already passed here to ensure thresholds of parity in association leadership. The objective is that this stage, that of the associations, which is a stage of learning and respect for the differences...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u37	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u38	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the objective is that this stage can guarantee equal opportunities for men and women, so that no one stays behind. To devalue the advances we propose is not to honor all those we have already made so far, namely a set of laws approved in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u39	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of the Resolution Project No 307 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ). We move on to the second point of our agenda, which is that of the appreciation of the Resolution Project No 582/XIV/1. a ( PSD ) — Economic and Social Response Programme for the Algarve. For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 11 July 1965 it may seem an insignificant date, but it is not. on that day, the Algarve dawned to celebrate and with renewed hope. Américo Tomás, President of the Republic, had moved to the distant district of Faro to inaugurate the airport. Américo Tomás was toasted with color paper and petals, spread mattresses on the windows and the band also didn't miss to ring the national anthem. That date marks a decisive and central moment in the history of the Algarve, which passed from a region forgotten on the map to a region that opened up to the world. Until then, the Algarve was no more than a poor region of the country, almost invariably forgotten and underestimated by the government. This was the biggest step for the Algarve to become what it is today: the largest tourist region in the country, the region that most contributes to the VAB(gross added value) of national tourism. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tourism and pandemics are not conciliable and, therefore, today, the Algarve is experiencing an unprecedented serious economic and social crisis. The crisis in the tourism sector has a devastating effect on the economy, has a dominant effect on sectors and activities related to the tourism sector. Many are the difficulties faced by families and businesses. With the fall of tourism, many jobs and businesses have disappeared, and many more jobs and businesses will disappear if the government does not act quickly. The longer the crisis lasts, the slower and heavier the recovery of our economy. Mrs. Members, today, the Algarve needs a new opportunity, such as the opportunity given with the construction of the Faro airport. Therefore, the PSD presents this project, with concrete measures aimed at preserving companies, promoting employment and promoting investment. It is essential that an economic and social response programme for the Algarve should be approved as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u42	It is not enough for the Government to recognise the importance of the Algarve to have a programme. It is not enough for the Government to announce that it intends to present a programme. We want concrete measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic crisis on the most affected region in the country. We want to maintain the layoff scheme simplified until March 2021 ; ensure greater flexibility in the payment of tax and contribution obligations; launch a new employment and vocational training programme specific to the Algarve ; review the National Investment Programme 2030, in order to ensure the investment that is fair to the Algarve ; ensure access to unemployment benefit and the cessation of activity allowance by reducing the guarantee deadlines. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time to say 'yes' to the Algarve, to say 'yes' to the algarves, it is time to acknowledge that the serious economic and social crisis that Algarve faces today requires us to move from words to acts. This is the obligation of this House, this is the obligation of this government! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u43	You now have the floor to speak in the debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic has indeed put Algarve in a very difficult economic and social situation, perhaps the most difficult in the whole country. in a region where tourism is the main activity, we would have really needed a more effective government for diplomacy, who had been able to use epidemiological data and political arguments to prevent Portugal from getting out of the air corridors, but within the blacklists, all this at a crucial time — weeks before summer — and in crucial countries such as the United Kingdom. We recognize the merit of this PSD initiative. It shows concern with the Algarve and goes in the right direction, when it advocates the reduction of the tax burden, the flexibility in tax payments or the strengthening of the care network integrated in the Algarve. Several of the other recommendations need to be explained or updated, but in an overall analysis we follow this initiative. That is why, in recent contacts with the Prime Minister on the Recovery Plan, we encouraged him to negotiate in Brussels the amendment of criteria from both the Structural Funds and the Recovery Funds. Currently, these criteria, together with the Algarve classification as a transitional region of the Convergence Goal, virtually prevent the tourism sector from being supported. This has been too long and must end now, because we are in an emergency, but especially because it is the most basic justice. They cannot be the bureaucrats to send to Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u45	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that in Portugal and in the Algarve they cannot send the bureaucrats either. These funds must be managed and applied by those who know how to generate wealth, with criteria, with strategy, with return and without waste, without pity, without delay.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u47	Mr Joaquina Matos, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution under consideration includes a set of measures for the programme of economic and social response for the Algarve. As early as June 2020, we recently adopted Resolution No 51 / 2020 in this House, recommending to the Government the implementation of a social and economic emergency plan for the Algarve, with broad scope, and therefore the need for another resolution on the same subject is not understood. I also recall that, if the economic and social crisis in the region was immediate and strong, the government had a quick response, taking into account the set of measures already on the ground, cautioning the interests in supporting families and businesses, which the Government is planning and implementing. In particular, taking into account the importance of tourism for the economy of the region and for the country, and taking into account the consequences of restrictions on air transport and international tourism, a special support plan for the Algarve was referred to, with emphasis on job creation and maintenance, vocational qualification and training, as well as the strengthening of tourism promotion campaigns and attracting major events for the Algarve. The Secretary of State for Tourism has been carrying out actions with these objectives, paying attention to the requirements imposed by the need to ensure public health in the licensing of the same activities. As an example, I refer to this House two major sporting events that will take place next month in the International Algarve Autodrome — two world motorcycle championships — which will be moments of great projection of the Algarve and Portugal worldwide, in conjunction with the municipality of Portimão. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the face of the crisis it is to highlight the action of the 16 municipalities, which, within their social networks, have supported and continue to support family situations of proven lack of resources or loss of income in the acquisition of immediate and unsuited goods and also implemented measures to support companies, including in reducing and exempting municipal rates. Mr. Prime Minister, when he was present at the opening of the bathing season in the Algarve, gave a clear message of confidence and the importance of choosing the region as the destination of the holidays of all nationals. In the same vein, I welcome the initiative of Mr. President of the Republic, Prof. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, who decided to hold work visits and meetings in the municipalities of Algarve, in a clear demonstration of collaboration with the region. The agreement reached at the last European Council on the multiannual financial framework 2021 - 2027 provides for an increase of EUR 300 million for the Algarve. This additional value corresponds significantly to the allocation of the OP (Operational Programme) Algarve in Portugal 2020 — which is EUR 319 million —, indicating that there will be considerable strengthening in the next programming period, and therefore there is financial potential to support measures to promote social and economic development, including diversification of economic activity. Also the Economic Recovery Plan, now under discussion, with the challenges and enormous responsibilities it entails, is an opportunity for the resolution of infrastructures in the region, old issues to be resolved, whether in water efficiency, whether in the area of health or in regional and cross-border mobility. We are well aware of the impact of the health, social and economic crisis on our region, but we are confident that all of us — the services, the autarchs, the state bodies — are in line with the opportunities available to us, integrated into the Strategic Vision for the Portugal 2020 - 2030 Economic Recovery Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u49	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u50	I congratulate you, Mr President, and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Ofélia Ramos presented us with a draft resolution with an economic and social response programme for the Algarve. It is clear to all of us that the epidemic outbreak has made the country's structural problems even more difficult and, in particular, the Algarve, which obviously presents added challenges, taking into account its very economic dynamics based on tourism, almost exclusively. It is true that this situation is marked by profound consequences, in terms of unemployment, in terms of workers' rights, in terms of the situation of thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which need to be answered, because this is clearly having consequences in the Algarve region and throughout the country, in increasing poverty. Therefore, for the CFP, it is so crucial to combat epidemic outbreaks, such as combating unemployment, combating income reduction and fighting for workers' rights. That is what we have not checked on this draft resolution. In the text of this draft resolution, there is no single reference to wages and, when referring to workers, Mrs Ofélia Ramos, it is simply to harm them even more with the layoff situation. But we are going in particular to the draft resolution. Mr Deputy, we need to clarify a few questions, from the point of view of training. One of the PSD responses to solve the problems of workers and their income is training. For, Mrs Deputies, workers need employment, employment with rights and wages, it is not just training. Training is necessary, but it is not the answer. The problems of the region go far beyond that. There is still the question of layoff. They want to treat Algarve workers differently, harming them. The layoff implies a cut of a third of the salary. What is currently in the reform support programme is not beneficial to workers, yet it is better than the third that you propose. [[PSD protests.]] What you propose is that the Algarve workers, until March 31st, lose more than the other workers in the country. That's what we don't agree with! But there's more! You are asking the government to create tax regimes. Ladies and gentlemen, you should know that this is a competence of this House. We're talking about tax regimes and taxation is up to this House. It is not to recommend to the government, we are talking about laws and the State budget. The gentlemen. Members, who so often use the excuse of the 'law-work', now come here with tax regimes that do not solve the problem. [[PSD protests.]] The problems in the region are not solved with tax benefits, but with investment, work, work with rights, with which you are very little concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u52	We go to concrete data: is the PSD concerned about dismissals and violation of the right to freedom and trade union activity of the workers of the Praia Resort, in the Algarve? Is the PSD concerned about what happened at Vilanova Resort, which received money from the layoff and continues with workers with late wages? Is the PSD concerned about the failure to comply with the INATEL Foundation's business agreement? This situation is unacceptable because it is a public utility entity, under the protection of social security, which has for more than 20 years to receive the minimum wage and workers to be pressured by the hiring of temporary employment companies to replace workers on strike. Does the PSD have a response to this? Is the PSD concerned about the devastating precarious work and social disprotection that strongly affects the workers of culture, show and audiovisual? You are certainly not worried about that! That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that the CFP is deeply linked to the lives of the workers of the Algarve and the Country. With the PCP they can count on the workers and the population of the Algarve, who need a profound change in the options that have been imposed on them, and they count on the PCP to fight for the changes that have not been introduced. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u53	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear that the health crisis has brought new challenges to the country, and it is also clear that we need to look at them from a regional point of view. in this sense, it is important that we look at the Algarve region and its economic and social recovery. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a short trip over time. Many times, in this headquarters and in the municipal assemblies of the region where the NAP is seated, we have warned the Government to undertake a study of the tourist burden in the country and a strategy for the development of sustainable tourism, placing on strategies that would not mortgage future generations. We would like to make it clear, with regard to the draft resolution that the PSD brings us, that it is essential for the NAP to ensure that the many unemployed of the Algarve and, obviously, of the rest of the country, many of them young people who worked under very precarious conditions, either in the tourism sector or in the restoration sector, are not left behind. We must ensure that none of them ceases to have social support in this difficult period, either by extending the guarantee deadlines or by creating a basic emergency income for all those who are currently unprotected. It is essential to ensure that, at this stage, the Government will not wager in the same strategy for young people — whether to settle in stages or in precarious links — who put them in so many of the difficulties they are experiencing today. On the other hand, we cannot fail to say that there is a need for measures to bet on the conversion to an energy transition, to bet on green services and to bet on the structural change of sectors such as tourism and agriculture with a view to their sustainable development, taking into account the targets for 2030. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the bet on golf courses, avocado plantations and intensive and irrigation agriculture is, of course, counterproductive according to environmental and social analyses. They represent two thirds of the water consumed in the Algarve region. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, any economic development strategy that the country adopts will be unable to survive without water. These concerns are not included in the PSD proposal. We note with particular concern that the PSD wants to create exceptions to the tax regime of non-traditional residents. in this respect, it will not count on the NAP to provide tax exemptions to non-traditional residents, because of a regime that has already shown to be obviously harmful and discriminatory to so many Portuguese. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u55	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policies and bets that have prevailed over recent decades have made Algarve a dependent region of the foreign, a region that is unable to produce and value its endogenous resources. Despite the high demand for Portuguese in this region, the Algarve has revealed inability to respond to this demand, the result of a bet on tourism that does not serve the pocket of most Portuguese, made for the foreign market, as we can also see from the measures proposed by the PSD in this draft resolution. Once again, the British market is discussed and everything is put on international forecasts. And it's more of the same why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because natural and landscape resources were being ignored, sustainable agricultural activity was never a priority, fishing was not seen as an activity to develop and so little was used as a strategic location. It was also not a priority to guarantee the population conditions for living with quality. In the Algarve region, we recognize the problems with an almost non-existent public transport network, with the National Health Service, which is manifestly insufficient, and with the public school, where it is not possible to establish staff. Today's discussion has an impact on the long list of PSD's draft resolution measures and it is appropriate to say that quantity is not quality. Otherwise, let us see: the layoff, with a plan or without a training plan, only intends to put the State to finance the companies. Customer breaks in hotels do not justify the layoff and were resolved by them with the dismissal of long-term contractors and trainees. The measure of the so-called simplified layoff intended to be a support for an extraordinary situation, which does not make sense to prolong over time, making it final, condemning workers to more cuts in their wages. The programme of employment and training measures would be translated into the dismissal of workers with effective links at present, through mutual agreement terminations, to receive support and to hire and pass other effectives, becoming only a measure of turnover and reduction of the average wage. These programs, moreover, would generate unacceptable inequalities in our country, with unemployed, workers and entrepreneurs, some even neighbors, to have very different treatments, only because they are in two different regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the region needs is not money for the economic model, but rather support for its amendment. It is necessary to rethink this region and the economic model dependent on a strategy that does not favour the region and the country. It is important to develop what the Algarve region has of its own and not once again create a plan based on measures that always serve the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u57	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS understands and supports the PSD objective with this draft resolution. It is clear that the whole country, not only the Algarve, has lived in recent months with the consequences of a pandemic and social crisis; but has also often lived with the consequences of another crisis, which is the government's crisis of competence. This crisis of government competence applies in particular to the Algarve, because, at the most important moment, not only because we lived in response to the pandemic, but also because we lived from the point of view of the Algarve tourist calendar, the Government has given its greatest proof of incompetence. That is, he removed an Algarve who was recovering the possibility of making a sustained recovery. What the government failed to achieve with its diplomatic action had very serious economic and social consequences for the Algarve. But by the way, it must have pleased some parties of this House, because they think the solution to the Algarve was to stop having British tourists, it was to stop having golf courses, it was to stop having hotels. You should, perhaps, ask some algorithm if you agree with that view. It is worth asking if someone thinks that, without tourism, not exclusively, but as an essential factor of the region's dynamization, it will live better or worse. You should ask if anyone thinks that if you don't have that dynamization factor, you'll live better. That is why we need to focus on the essentials and the draft resolution of the PSD has proposals that must apply not only to the Algarve but to the whole national and has others which makes sense that they only exist for the Algarve. That doesn't matter. For example, professional training to be criticized is extraordinary... as if it were not those who criticize vocational training the same ones who then say that a lot of things need to be changed. In fact, one of the things that we have to change is the qualification of resources, of course, so that, as they can give more competence to their service, they can improve the quality of the Algarve's tourist offer, which is exactly the bet that has been made in recent years, and thus bring more income, gain more and progress in life. This in order to have at this time a hypothesis that, not being able to work as they worked under normal conditions, they could improve their qualifications and rise in life. What's wrong with that? That's good for people, it's good for the economy and it's good for the country. Therefore, from our point of view, the way we protect the population of the Algarve, the way we protect the economic activities in the Algarve is not to put ourselves with lirisms and we clearly realize how people, companies and communities can live better. in this sense, we understand that the draft resolution presented by the PSD can help. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u59	Mr. João Vasconcelos of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first thing I have to say to the PSD Members is: welcome to the discussion on the economic and social crisis in the Algarve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u61	Welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u62	Indeed, the PSD is getting too late, but there are other political forces that officially have not yet shown anything, so they are even worse. Nothing presented about the crisis in which the Algarve is immersed. The Left Block did its homework and entered a Social and Economic Emergency Plan for the defence of the Algarve, last May, a plan which was approved by a large majority in this House and on 19 June, in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic 51 / 2020, until 28 measures were taken for the Algarve. So we don't need another plan. The pandemic has exposed the country's fragility and, in particular, the Algarve, which lives almost exclusively in the tourism sector, and, if no extraordinary short-term measures are taken, in fact, we will have very high catastrophic impacts. Algarve's vulnerability is linked to the economic model that has been developed in recent decades. Whose responsibility? the PS and PSD, mainly because they dominated the various governments, dominated the structures of the Algarve, dominated the politics of the region. We have a sun and sea tourism and it is necessary to reverse this paradigm. The monoculture of tourism, what led to? The unbridled speculation, the seasonality of employment, the growing precariousness of work, a policy of low wages, late wages and very large working rhythms. This crisis has revealed a much worse situation, since in recent years difficulties, asymmetries, inequalities in the Algarve have worsened, with, for example, the introduction of tolls by the PSD/CDS, which the PS has supported – and it is not worth saying in the Algarve: "We defend the end of the tolls, but we know that the country's economic limitations are great due to the pandemic and therefore we cannot go through it. Do not keep on seeking. ” However, Mr President, the report of the UTAP ( Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ), p. 37, says the State spent in the first quarter 15 million euros, with around 60 million euros of damage, in which the tolls cover only 26 %. So it's fake. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, two days ago we had results in terms of unemployment in the Algarve and are more than 178 % in terms of the same period last year. They're over 13,000 unemployed! Therefore, extraordinary and urgent measures, such as those we have in our plan, are needed to support families, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, populations, to save jobs. We also have social measures in the field of housing, health, mobility, fisheries, agriculture, economic diversification, including the fight against precariousness and even the creation of a water sustainability plan, and here it seems that the government has taken a few steps, but they have not yet gone away from the role. So we have everything there and the government needs to comply with what has been approved in this House. Many of the measures presented by the PSD here, which are only about tourism, of course some deserve our support. But it is necessary to in fact reverse what is happening in the Algarve, to reverse this paradigm and to take concrete steps. Is it not worth empty words, it is not worth hollow words and one of the challenges I leave here to the PSD, since in our plan you approved the suspension of the tolls, is it in the sense of knowing whether you will do the same if BE submits a proposal in the State Budget not to pay the tolls, maintaining its consistency? I'd like you to tell me whether or not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u63	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Algarve has been spared the pandemic but faces an economic and social epidemic of unparalleled proportions, where unemployment is increasing alarmingly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u65	Are you going to assume your responsibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u66	... six times compared to the national average, and the record break that occurs in tourism puts the region at the edge of the economic and social precipice. That is why we should not be having this debate, because we should have a competent and wise government to honour their promises. On 7 July, in the Assembly of the Republic, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs said: "The Algarve's aid plan is being prepared and will be presented shortly. » Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs said more; he said that this plan was central to help businesses reach 2021 without a terrible dominance of bankruptcy and unemployment. It's been four months, where's the plan? In the meantime, Mr. President of the Republic said that this plan should be a national plan. Four months have passed and we don't have a plan, we don't know what the government wants to do, but we know that this plan was aimed at ensuring that companies would arrive in March and April and save jobs, hope and hope, and not despair and anxiety because of the government's horrendous uncertainty and omission. But we have no plan and, without planning, people have no solution, because not only did the government produce the plan and the concrete measures it took to be essential for the region, as it did worse: in what was its competence, the government did wrong things, i.e., it dropped, by incompetence in diplomacy, the tourist corridor and changed the Layoff regime with severe losses to the region, because in August the companies had more support than they would have in December, when they needed these support. [[PSD applause.]] This is very serious, because it is paying attention to the specific measures that must be put into practice and which are vital for the region to recover and for people to have hope. So what we say is that it is time to act, because if not, in the Algarve, people will continue to say that the Algarve is despised, despised, that they promise them some things and do others. And that's the feeling that you guys are. Members of the Algarve know and are often confronted with it, which requires all of us, so that we force the government to take these measures today and not tomorrow; today, for them to come into effect; today, for them to give hope to the crows; today, for them to save jobs, save businesses and for the Algarve to pass this necessarily bad period in the best possible way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u67	To keep it all the same? Oh, my God! That's what you guys want!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u68	Mr. Luís Graça, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Algarve is one of the most beautiful regions and has no more tourism. We don't have any more British tourists or more Portuguese tourists. We are one of the best tourist destinations in Europe and we want and will continue to be one of the best tourist destinations in Europe. What the Government did when it announced with the European Commission an additional EUR 300 million support for the Algarve economy was the first major recovery measure in the region, because it is the first serious incentive for the Algarve to extend its economic base and not only depending on tourism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand that the PSD Members do not want to praise the government here, but at least do not do this craftsmanship to speak of Américo Tomás without speaking here about the role of the President of the Republic who has not been leaving the Algarve for two months to draw the attention of the Portuguese to the fact that the Algarve has all the security and quality conditions... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u70	Sir, pay attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u71	I will finish Mr. President. What does PSD propose for the Algarve? Training, how did you do when you were in the government during the last crisis for those available in the civil service? We already know it's against the rise in the minimum wage. And you propose what? Support for the hiring of OPCs (occupational programmes), without any type of stability? Precarious employment? Is that your program for the Algarve? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] We don't want to go back to that time! We don't need to go back to that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u72	To close the debate, since the initiative was the PSD, I give the floor to Mr Rui Cristina from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD Members, elected by the Algarve, made numerous alerts from May 2020 on the particular features of the Algarve economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u74	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u75	The economic and social response programme for the Algarve, now under discussion in this plenary, wants to stop hecatomb in the economy of the region. We are therefore presenting a programme to respond to the specific difficulties of businesses and families. It is not a vague programme, without concrete goals, without defined priorities, such as this government's grasp; it is, yes, an ambitious burden book, which demonstrates our firm will and that of the algae not to allow themselves to be overwhelmed by the difficulties. As you know, tourist demand in the Algarve is predominantly dependent on European tourists but also on the rest of the world. We are aware of how much our region has been affected and is being affected by the pandemic and the years that we will be taking a long time to recover. Still this month, we learned that the unemployment rate in the Algarve has increased almost 200 % in terms of counterparts. As long as the European and world economies do not recover from the adverse effects that the pandemic has brought to the circulation of people and as long as the Algarve continues without receiving tourists, the region will need immediate support. And it's too late, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an exceptional time and exceptional times require exceptional measures! We must not forget that the Algarve has been responsible for 5 % of wealth creation in Portugal in recent years. So, if the Algarve helped, it's time to be helped. As has already been mentioned by my fellow Members by the PSD, Algarve, it will only be possible to ensure the sustainability of businesses, employment and income of Algarve families if we adopt a recovery programme for the economy of the region. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is about the lives of thousands of people, I therefore appeal to your vote for the future of our region. This is the right time for us to be at the level of the confidence that the seaweeds have deposited in us. I am sure those who ignore our claims will be duly penalized. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now turn to point 3 of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of Bills Nos 414 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Densifies the legal regime applicable to the transmission of an undertaking or establishment by clarifying its application in situations of provision of surveillance, feeding or cleaning services( 16 ). the amendment of the Labour Code), 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Introduce an interpretative standard of Article 285. that of the Labour Code, making its application mandatory for the award, by public tender, of public services services, and 503 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Defends and strengthens the rights of workers in the event of transmission of an undertaking or establishment, in the private sector or in the public sector, by awarding services which are carried out by public tender, direct adjustment or any other means envisaged. For presentation of the draft law of BE, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The figure of the transmission of establishment has a long history in the framework of work and also in the case-law, particularly in Europe. Portuguese legislation has regulated the legal concept and the effects of the transmission of the establishment, transposing European directives and including in the law rules whose aim is, of course, the protection of workers' rights, when an establishment is acquired by another company or where there is a new concessionaire, ensuring the maintenance of jobs and associated rights, while the new company is still responsible for any debts within one year. We know, however, that this law has been lent to numerous abuses. First, there was the fraud of the Altice, which simulated alleged economic units to launch the hand of fraudulent use of the law with a view to getting rid of the workers, without costs, and completely distorting one of the objectives of the law which is precisely the maintenance of the rights of workers and their jobs. In response to the struggle of these workers, Parliament made amendments in 2018 to the system of transmission of establishment to explicitly ensure that, in the case of the exploitation of a particular establishment or the provision of a given service, workers not only keep their jobs, but also all their acquired contractual rights—including remuneration, seniority, professional category, functional content and social benefits—and to clarify the concept of economic unity that was being handled. However, and still today, we have learned, through numerous ways, that the cases in which these rights are being violated have multiplied, particularly in contracts made with public services. There are a number of companies, especially in the area of private security, which have created a real state of affairs in this sector. We have hundreds of vigilantes who are in a job vacuum today, in which they have no work, because they have not been transmitted and taken over by the new company, but they have not been fired either. They are therefore in a vacuum that is not only professional, but that it is even social protection and access to unemployment benefit. It happened with companies such as PSG, Assecur, Ronsegur, the PSC ( Operational Security Company ), i.e. companies that won competitions launched by the State for public services and proposed to their employees to terminate the contract with the previous company without prior notice—so without payment of working days and compensation—and to sign a new contract with the new companies, losing all the acquired rights that the law precisely intended to guarantee. In fact, the subcontracting of all these functions, whether in the area of private surveillance or in the area of cleaning, has stimulated these kinds of logics, i.e. periodic contests that end up being won by companies that always offer a lower price, which has stimulated a fund run in terms of wages, but also in terms of working conditions, and which has stimulated forms of unfair and aggressive competition, of which the first victims are obviously the workers. To combat these phenomena, the Left Block presented a draft resolution that was approved in this Assembly of the Republic. On the one hand, the Government was required to implement the regulation of specialized training by the Labour Conditions Authority ( Acts ) to intervene in these situations. On the other hand, it is proposed that notices for opening public tenders for the provision of such services, including security, surveillance and cleaning, should be included in the notice of initiation of public tenders, in particular a clause referring explicitly to the obligation to comply with the rules relating to the transmission of establishment and the maintenance of all rights acquired, including those known as remuneration, seniority, category, professional content and social benefits. The State may and should have a much more regulatory role than the one it has had in this area, but we also believe that the law itself should stress that, under the system of transmission of establishment, tenders for the provision of security, cleaning or feeding services are included. The law must explicitly block judicial decisions which do not correspond to the objective of protection of workers, for which the figure of the transmission of the establishment was created. The law must ensure that the maintenance of jobs, the links and the rights of workers is not called into question. That is the objective of this amendment. We are, of course, committed and available to discuss, with the other parties presenting initiatives today, the best solutions to achieve these objectives. We are available to, together with the unions and the workers in these areas, find the best solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u78	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u79	What we don't think is acceptable is that Parliament is holding arms in front of what's going on. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u80	For the presentation of the PS bill, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After January 2018, we meet again to discuss this issue of the transmission of establishment. I want to greet the Left Block and also the Portuguese Communist Party for bringing this issue. Despite the change made at the time, there are still companies that want to fail. Although, through collective bargaining, the parties have been able to reach an understanding of the transmission of establishment in the cleaning sector, there are still companies that fear not to comply. And in the surveillance sector, despite the recent understanding between an employer association and several trade unions on the issue of transmission of establishment, collective bargaining has not yet been able to resolve this scourge. That is why it is necessary for us here, in the House of Democracy, to take concrete steps to resolve this long-standing problem for too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u83	The protection of workers' rights is a basic cornerstone of labour policy, to be pursued both by the Government and by Parliament, and this applies not only in the case of ongoing labour relations, but also in the case of the transmission of labour relations to another employer and for the exercise of the same functions. For the Socialist Party, the defence of workers' rights is at the heart of their work: in the replacement and protection of rights, in the fight against job insecurity, in the creation and maintenance of jobs. It is in this sense that, with the guiding principle of employment security, we present this bill, with the aim of maintaining individual employment contracts in situations of succession of employers and the maintenance of jobs potentially affected by the loss of a workplace or customer by the employer company. The object of the provision of lost services must have continuity through the hiring of a new company, assuming that it is the workers and their rights. The transferred workers cannot be uncertain whether or not they are going to keep their jobs. Workers cannot be in doubt whether or not they will receive their maturity. Workers cannot continue in the uncertainty of whether they will be entitled to Christmas allowance or whether they will be able to make a holiday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in these terms, through an interpretative standard cast in this bill, we intend to place a final point in this scourge, ending with doubts and uncertainties. Only in the way we diverge, but we have to find a solution. This is not just a flag of the Socialist Party, the Left Block or the Portuguese Communist Party, this is a solution that summons all the parties and all this Assembly of the Republic. in these terms, those who take refuge in the figure of the economic unit to fail to comply with and those who do not only fail to do so know by virtue of this interpretative standard that Article 285 ( 1 ). the Labour Code shall apply to the contracting of services by entities covered by the Public Contracts Code. This is the time to fight the scourge of precarious work, with courage and assertiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u84	For the presentation of the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The existing legal framework for the transmission of business or establishment is largely the result of the transposition of directives in order to frame and facilitate merger and acquisition processes. These directives, although they do not fully guarantee workers' rights, lay down certain safeguard conditions. However, the reality has shown that these rights have been disrespected and abused by several employers, and in 2018 legislative amendments have been made on the transmission of establishment, with the contribution of the CFP, which have strengthened the rights of workers in this situation, in particular by maintaining contractual and acquired rights, individual and collective rights, and also rights of remuneration, seniority, professional category, functional content and social benefits acquired. at this time, we return to this discussion because there are situations of employers from different sectors, but with special incidence in the surveillance sector, which refuse to guarantee workers' rights, as the law determines, finding different subterfuges for this. They are behaviours of violation of workers' rights, of disrespect for acquired rights, creating real precedents for the dismissal of these workers. Recently, we followed examples of workers in the surveillance sector who were left in a genuine limbo as to their situation, were neither working nor in a state of unemployment, neither workers nor companies nor others, with the consequences that this has on instability, but also on remuneration. It also adds the pressure situation made to many workers to abdicate their rights to keep the job, which is, for many of them, their jobs for many years. If this sector, that of surveillance, is indeed the one that has had numerous situations in which its workers lose rights and, often, the job, in situations of replacement of a service provider company, on the other hand, this is a reality that also occurs in other sectors of activity. The CFP argues that workers are entitled to the transmission of establishment as provided for in Article 285. that of the Labour Code, maintaining all contractual rights acquired, whether the antiquity, the remuneration, the category, the functional content or the social benefits. What has been done to many workers is the oppression of rights in processes usually marked by strong pressures and blackmails by employers. It is therefore important to strengthen the rights of all workers who find themselves or come to be in a future situation of transmission of establishment. At the same time, we must not fail to point out that there is a fundamental problem with the generalisation of the use of service providers, particularly by the State, but also by the private sector, which adds the problem of the values contracted with these companies and also the way in which service services are renewed, in which the preferential criterion is that of the lowest price. Without prejudice, of course, to the resolution of this fundamental problem, it is important to ensure that the rights of workers are properly safeguarded and defended either in situations where the provision of services takes place in a public tender, but also by direct adjustment or by any other legal means envisaged, both in the private sector and in the public sector. It is in this sense that the CFP presents this initiative, i.e. to ensure that all workers of all sectors of activity, both in the public and in the private, have all their rights strengthened, without prejudice to, in the case of recourse to more favourable collective bargaining instruments, these are exactly the instruments applied to the situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Olga Silvestre of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State fails in the actions or lack of them and the proof of this is the presentation, by the Left Block, by the PCP and the Socialist Party, of the draft laws here under discussion for the amendment of the legal regime of the transmission of establishment. Yes, because densifying legal diplomas, as they now call it euphemistically, is just recognizing that they have gone wrong, that they have gone wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u89	The PSD is, as always, fighting for the rights of workers, but not at the expense of legislative instability. [[PCP laughter.]] The subject is of obvious importance and therefore deserves the following reflection. Is the transmission of the establishment not properly legislated? Whenever there is a state incompetence to monitor labour relations, does the CFP and BE rush to propose surgical micro-interventions that do not go to the essence of the problem? If this is the methodology, do not count on the PSD to cause legislative instability. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] What's wrong or failed? Your legal-legislative capacity or your inability to monitor? It is good to never forget that legislative stability is essential in order to gain the trust of its recipients and ensure their correct application. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this principle of stability is essential for legislation, in the framework of work it is of particular relevance, because of the direct impact on the lives of workers and businesses who, at this time, need support. That is why, already in the last amendment — or should I say density? — we have drawn attention to this fact. Let us always prevail for the strict observance of the law. That is why it is incomprehensible that before now the proponents of these initiatives, on the subject of an alleged legal density, only want to cover the State's inability to enforce the laws of the Republic. First, as now, we advocate that the Labour Conditions Authority should act whenever there is a violation of labour law. Even before, in a preventive manner, it must intervene so that there are no obstacles to the law and violation of workers' rights. This, yes, is at the heart of the question: to give conditions and to provide means for the Act to monitor. The act must exercise a supervisory function, but also prevent it, because the breaches of the law must be in the first line avoided and only, in the second line, must be punished, so that the prevarinator does not make the same mistakes again. But don't be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen. Members, doing and re-enacting diplomas is not of much concern, but rather of incapacity and incompetence, own or other, and, in any case, of the State. There have always been and there will always be those who are tempted to break the law. It is essential that the State fight those practices. The labour law must be, like the others, general and abstract and never ad homme. But the monitoring of the State must be concrete, rapid and effective. The law is designed to protect citizens and regulate life in community. Control is used to prevent infringement and, if it is found, to sanction it. It is therefore of vital importance to ask how the status of the arts in the Working Conditions Authority goes: that is, the promised reinforcements—for years—of human means to the ACT where they are? How are you? How many are there? It is that, with regard to the transfer of human resources in the Public Administration, in order to strengthen the frameworks of the ACT, there has been news of counter-gost transfers and without specific and necessary technical qualifications. Can the promoters of these initiatives clarify this House? Because what the present bills come to do is recognize the inability of ACT to protect workers' rights. It is true that if Portuguese workers cannot count on you, they can count on our work and dedication. The PSD will always know, at the centre of social consultation, to create bridges and, with dialogue and firmness, to enforce the law. Of course, it is also important to mention the essential respect for the division of powers and, where necessary, the use of courts to safeguard the best interests of the injured and the community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore maintain the position of defending the stability of the legal system and demand the effective functioning of the State. We will always be part of the solution and never part of the problem. As we have repeatedly stated, what we now reiterate, we believe that « soft water in hard stone gives so much until it digs». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u90	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transmission of establishment is a mechanism that is not rarely used perversely to weaken, limit, reduce or even violate workers' rights. That is why, on a proposal from the NAP and other parties in 2018, Parliament approved a set of advances which ensured the protection of workers within the framework of the transmission of establishments, providing for, for example, the express consecration of the right of opposition to transmission, the increase of the guarantees of workers in terms of deadlines and all the contractual and acquired rights of the worker, in particular the remuneration, antiques, functional content and social benefits acquired. However, despite the effort we have made together over two years, we have found that there are still perverse uses of this mechanism in the field of surveillance, cleaning and feeding sectors, in particular when, within the scope of awarding the provision of a service, the rights recognised to workers are fully overrun by the new contracting authority, which completely distorts the rules of the Labour Code and also the amendments introduced in 2018. What is being discussed today is a set of projects that, in a well-intentioned way — we recognise it — seek to answer this problem and ensure the protection of workers, which, of course, the NAP cannot fail to follow. However, these proposals present some problems and, in some cases, may have the effect precisely contrary to what is intended. In the proposal of the Block of Left, the wording of which is close to that of the PCP, the CGTP itself ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers — National Interunion ) stated that, in the context of the award of a service, due to not being concerned the transmission of a company or concession of exploitation, the proposed pairing could open the door to illegal transfers of workers or to their transfer to another company without its agreement, which is certainly not to be believed, the objective of these parties. In turn, the PS proposal seems to us that it will be insufficient if it is not accompanied by amendments which ensure the compulsory mention of this system of transmission of establishment in the specification and also the adaptation of the scheme provided for in Articles 285. the, numbers 7 to 10, and 286. the Labour Code, which, in its present terms, are designed for direct transmissions of the establishment, but not for cases of indirect transmissions, such as those that occur in public tenders.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u92	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u93	The three projects thus forget that the resolution of this problem will always have to go through regulation under a regime of succession of activity situations, which is often dealt with under collective conventions. In the face of the problems mentioned, I would like to leave a final note on the part of the NAP to stress that it is of the utmost importance that these projects go down, without a vote, to the Commission, to be the subject of further technical analysis, in particular by specialists, and that their discussion, in the specialty, can be done together with draft laws, both the NAP and the PSD, which deal precisely with a nearby problem and which seek to ensure the protection of the workers of the concessionary entities that transit to the public employer, in situations of reversal of public service. from the NAP, we are fully available to take this path and hope that the bidders will also be. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u94	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are dealing with a problem which Parliament has been following recently and which has resulted in several hearings and the presentation of specific cases. It happens that we are dealing with the specific issue of a law that was reviewed in 2018. So the first thing we have to consider is whether it makes sense to change a law that was reviewed so recently, depending on specific cases. I would say two things: it never makes sense to change the law according to specific cases and much less when the law is recent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u96	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u97	Because, as we have already seen, the intention of those who want to change the law can be frustrated and have the exact opposite effect for those who want to protect, who are the workers. The application of the law, in accordance with which these parties now want the law to be defined, may be in favour of the workers who brought the problem to us here, particularly those in the area of private security, but other private security workers or other sectors may not benefit, on the contrary. Therefore, this weighting has to be done and cannot be casuistic. On the other hand, in addition to the legislative power of Parliament, it is essential to realize that other powers are that the State has other offices and that they are relevant to resolving this matter. He's essentially got two. One, from an executive point of view, is that those who draw up the procurement manuals for this type of service in public bodies have to ensure that they have, on the part of the State, the requirement which, for example, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen want to put the law. It is essential that the book of charges be clear and that it avoid dumping in the submission of tenders, because, as we know, by public procurement, the lowest price can often be the price presented by those who take advantage of omissions from the book of charges, because they plan to perform their duties differently from others who competed with the same tender. Therefore, the first responsibility of public entities is to be competent in the preparation of burden books. The second responsibility of the State is that of supervision. It does not make sense the Assembly of the Republic to replace the Act to assess the application of the law with specific cases and to say: «as the Act does not control and does not conclude what we think it should conclude, in cases where it concludes, or where the courts may have different decisions, we will change the law in that sense». To that end, I venture to say, the Socialist Party's proposal can take much more, because, if the problem is of interpretation of the law, we can eventually admit an interpretative hypothesis, but never a legislative hypothesis, without having the security, that we have to have as legislators, that the law we are going to produce is better than that which is in force at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u98	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. With the bills presented here, it is not possible to have that certainty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u100	You have the floor, to finish your time, Mr Fernando José, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Olga Silvestre, with all the respect I have for you, it seems to me that the PSD is still out of play and without realizing what is at stake here. The problem is not from the government. The problem was not caused by the government. The problem was not caused by the Government of the Socialist Party, but was also not caused by the Government of the PSD / CDS. This is a problem that drags over time, it is a problem that has to do with non-compliance on the part of companies. In the cleaning sector, employers' associations and unions perceived the problem and introduced a clause in the collective contract that resolves it, almost completely. But still there are companies that do not want to comply. Another issue has to do with the private security and surveillance sector. There too, collective bargaining has partly solved the problem. There was an association of employers and unions who realized what was at stake and, through collective bargaining, resolved this problem. There are companies that do not comply because they take refuge in the figure of economic unity. And for many times the ACT can and will continue to monitor, the truth is that these companies will always take refuge in this figure and the processes end, and drag themselves to court. What we're trying to do here is try to find, once and for all, a solution for these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u102	It's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u103	And what we are here to do is clarify Article 285. the, saying it is applied to public contracts. It's as simple as that. The situation is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u104	Don't stay, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u105	Therefore, from the moment we can solve this problem here, the workers will no longer have the uncertainty of knowing, when they are transferred to another company, if they receive their salary, if they will be entitled to unemployment benefit. That is what is at stake here and, therefore, we must act. This is the time to act and combat this scourge of precarious work, which has been dragging for many and many years, too long. This is the problem, the problem is not the government or the ACT.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u106	It's too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u107	The aim here is to clarify whether Article 285 applies to these contracts. that of the Labour Code shall apply or if it does not apply. In our understanding, it must apply! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u108	You have the floor, to finish your time, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs PSD, I would like to point out that, on the companies that failed to comply with labour law, with regard to these workers, she said nothing. Mrs Deputy's intervention was an authentic absolution of employers who failed to comply with labour law and who, in fact, pressured hundreds of workers to abdicate their labour rights and even to abdicate their jobs. It is from this reality that we are talking about, Mrs Member, and what the honourable Member said about these companies was absolutely zero. What you are telling workers that they are in brutal instability, that they are neither working nor in a state of unemployment, is that legislative stability is needed. But what we say is that what needs work stability! [[PCP applause.]] What is necessary is that those workers remain at that job, have guaranteed all their rights, including their remuneration and all their rights acquired in the field of antiquity. This is the way that needs to be done and this is the way that the CFP proposal opens: in the public sector, because there is indeed the question of contracting services by the State, but also in the private sector, because we all remember the situation of Portugal / Altice, in 2017, and also the struggle of those workers to guarantee more rights in the context of the transmission of establishment. The proposal which the CFP brings here is to strengthen the rights of these workers and to strengthen labour stability, which is what these workers need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u110	We are moving to the closing stage of this debate. Since the initiative was of the Left Block, you have the floor to close this debate, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On a proposal from the Left Block, the Committee on Labour and Social Security made a wide range of hearings on this problem. in these hearings, we have been confronted with several testimonies, for example, of workers who have not been transmitted and who — we hear them already this year — are still in a professional vacuum and in a social void, without having been fired, without having access to unemployment benefit and without having their job. We have heard workers who have been working at the same job for years and to whom companies that have won the competition have proposed to sign a new contract, figuring that the employment relationship was starting from zero and thus abolishing their rights, their contractual rights, their seniority, their salaries, all that would result from respect for the law and the transmission of establishment. We heard representatives of companies, including a employers' association, the ECIRF (Associación Comercial Industrial Regent Feijó ), to come to Parliament boast that it would not comply with the law, that it would use all kinds of crafts to ensure that workers did not respect their rights and that, in fact, that they were going to court and that only if the courts said they would be obliged to comply with the law. We have also heard other employers speak in Parliament of an aggressive unfair competition, a state of location that was created in the sector of private surveillance, precisely between companies that meet the collective contract with the STAD (Syndicato dos Laboratorios de Serviços de Portaria, Vigilância, Cleanzes Domésticas e Astividades Diversas) and noncompliant companies. In view of this, what the PSD has done has been to ratify — to ratify! — these violations. What we say is that we have an obligation to act to defend the workers. The CDS here talked about the order books. Of course we know that about 60 % of contracts in the area of security and private surveillance are with the State, and that is why we proposed a draft resolution on 7 January 2020, which Parliament has also approved,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u113	... to prevent dumping by means of the rules laid down in the specifications of charges, to prevent dumping which is under way and which is done through a theft of workers' rights, to clarify the obligation to maintain all these contracts, to value companies which are fulfilling. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Mr João Almeida, that is what we have already done. It was also mentioned here in the Working Conditions Authority. For, of course, we all believe that the Working Conditions Authority needs to have a faster intervention. And if there was intervention in many of these cases it was under pressure from the complaints of the unions and also, for example, from the Left Block, which wrote to the ACT, which met with the ACT, which called upon the Government. It is obvious that there are collective conventions, particularly those signed by the STAD, which protect workers, but we know that there are still unprotected workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u114	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u115	Finally, Mr President, saying that the law should not allow any window or possibility of fraudulent use. That is what we want to fight and hope to get to the right port. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u116	We now move on to point 4 of the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 372 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a scheme for strengthening workers in social equipment and repeals Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020 of 31 March, 490 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — 6 % update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with social and solidarity sector entities and 504 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Conversion into a contract of work of the scholarships of the recruited professionals to strengthen support for households and other social equipment. For the presentation of the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current context has exposed a set of weaknesses and structural problems in our country in several areas, including in areas of social equipment response, which have faced several problems for several years. The lack of human and technical means in social sector institutions that have responses in the context of social equipment to support childhood, youth, the elderly, people with disabilities and other social dimensions is a reality that has been felt for a long time and that the current context has shown even more. The situation of the institutions of this sector, their workers and the response that needs to be assured to users and populations has deserved attention, concern and intervention at different times. at this time it is important to ensure more immediate responses to safeguard the functioning of the different institutions, the capacity and quality of response to the needs of their users, as well as to defend the rights of workers in the social sector. They are workers who, in their overwhelming majority, earn very little wages — poor wages, as these workers themselves said yesterday in a struggle action that they organized in front of the Ministry of Labour. They have long working days, they are faced with situations of imposition of working hours of 10 and 12 hours during consecutive days, with boarding arrangements during consecutive days, and even with unilateral imposition of holiday enjoyment, among other atropellas and arbitrariness that have occurred. It is important to ensure the strengthening of workers in the social sector in order to improve the response, yes, but also to remove the overload of hours and work that weighs on the generality of these workers. But it is also important to value these workers, their wages, their careers, to comply with collective conventions, to comply with all measures of hygiene, health and safety at work, to ensure their protection. Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020, recently published by the Government as well as recently announced measures in the face of the situation in the homes of elderly people, do not effectively respond to this problem or to other substantive problems. It is not acceptable to respond to the existing problem on the basis of precariousness, which is, in fact, what is happening in this area. Workers who, under this port, are called to institutions have the right to a job with rights, wages and not to be paid through monthly scholarships to carry out a so-called "socially useful work", on which due discounts will not be made for social security. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be possible to find people available to work in an institution that replaces workers who, for example, are infected at the moment, in which they will work for a limited time, 15 days, 3 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, that is, exposing themselves to increased risks, and then returning to the starting point, to unemployment situations, without any prospect of continuing to work, is an illusion, as these times have shown. In order to make an immediate contribution to the resolution of problems that persist, the CFP presents this legislative initiative, proposing the creation of a recruitment grant that assumes and frames the recruitment of workers who strengthen social equipment where there is a need to be met; the hiring of workers with the aim of providing staff maps of the number of workers required and who are missing, and that, in the case of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) it should be ensured that the ratios required by social security in the various valences; ensuring the necessary training for the performance of these functions, considering social groups with specific characteristics, as well as occupational risk contexts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u118	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u119	It is time for the State to take effective steps in assuming responsibilities in this social area, if any, through social security. It is necessary to respond to problems and conjunctural difficulties that are more acute at the moment, but that need to be included in a broader response that intervenes on the structural problems affecting the network of equipment and services in the area of social action. The guarantee of social rights, including the existence of support equipment and services for the elderly, but also for children, youth, disabled persons and other social dimensions, is a primary responsibility of the State that cannot be transferred to IPSS, as has been done by successive governments, without prejudice to the complementary role that they may have in the public responses to which the State is constitutionally bound. The reality today clearly shows that an answer based on a social and private sector network does not serve the existing needs. It is necessary to break with a model of equipment network based on a logic of privatization of social responses. Let us not abdicate from the public response that must be given in this area and from the responsibilities that the State, through social security, has to take on this matter, which is also present in the initiative we are presenting today. The adoption of this initiative means strengthening the response conditions of the institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u120	Attention to your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u121	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. It said, which means strengthening the conditions of the institutions' response in the most diverse valences, including in homes for the elderly, means more rights for workers who are hired and means greater responsibility of the State for these answers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u122	For the presentation of the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in the Standing Committee, even before we started this Legislative Session, the CDS addressed the issue of homes, the PS asked 'then, but the CDS now starts or brings the issue of homes to the debate, what has the CDS already proposed or what does it propose for the situation of homes to be resolved? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And we're here. And we're not presenting anything new, that's the point. We are here today to present again something that we had already presented in March, when there was still little talk about the outbreaks at home— eventually, we were talking about the outbreak of Vila Real's home — and that the gentlemen have plunged. So, today we are here to insist on what we have long felt is fundamental and that you continue to plumber. Therefore, when we now see news of brigades that will support homes, test and test protocol that will now be applied to the greatest homes, we ask the Socialist Party where the government was, where it was the Socialist Party during these six months in which the elderly suffered at home, in which the employees felt unaccompanied and the authorities intervened to supply what the central State could not do. Thus, it is essential here and now to discuss something else that we have already spoken about: the individual protective equipment (EPI) — which, although they have already been distributed, continues to raise problems. There are many homes, still, that do not have conditions, for example, for health professionals who will provide care there to do the basic, that is to wear, and even more sensitive, take off these personal protective equipment in safety. It is therefore essential that the State also intervene. But let's figure out what's going on. We are talking about social institutions that replace the State in the provision of such services to those who need the most, who are making a brutal effort, within the resources that they have, in order to continue to provide these services with much greater demand, that they see to cross social functions with the health functions for which they often do not have competence, without permanent and competent monitoring on the part of the health authorities. And this with a shortage of human resources and difficulty in remunerating these human resources fairly. And why do social institutions find it difficult to pay their workers justly for the work they have done? Because the government has decided to increase cooperation agreements by about half of what has increased the national minimum wage. In other words, the government has made it beautiful to increase the national minimum wage, but then to the homes where there are many people in this situation, it has given a share that remains half. Therefore, of two: either the households have even more difficulty in their budgetary management, or the Government once and for all realizes that these cooperation agreements such as, in fact, have already been recognised by the Minister, need to have an extraordinary review. And they need to have an extraordinary review to do... We are not asking these institutions to have any increase in their funding, we are only asking what is basic: if the Government has decided to increase the national minimum wage in a given proportion, it must increase the participation at least in the same proportion. Otherwise the State, in addition to relying on social institutions to perform these functions, is forcing them to do so without giving the necessary resources, the resources that the government itself requires, for example, to private employers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u124	For the presentation of the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis has further stressed the already insufficient response capacity of the social equipment network. In Portugal they were perhaps more exposed than ever before, with the pandemic, the extreme shortage of our care infrastructures, the degree of work overload of social support professionals, subject to immense levels of turnover, heavy shifts, low wages, precarious working conditions, in a sector that continues to be very feminine, very little valued and very little recognized. The overload and risk to which care professionals in Portugal are subject are not compensated or compensated. The health crisis also exposed the gaps and the error that is the institutionalization model that we have, which relies on the outsourcing of State care to the private and social sector, which is based on a private monopoly of the provision of social care and on the prevalence of an intervention model that is unable to fully guarantee the autonomy of people. In view of the obvious need to strengthen professionals to respond to the health crisis, from the very beginning in the homes of the elderly, the government has created a measure to support the emergence of social and health equipment. The objectives of this measure, which aim to support the IEFP (Instituto do Employo e Formation Professional) in order to place these professionals in private institutions, do not place any reservations. There needs to be a professional reinforcement. The government announced 5000 in the first phase and the objective of hiring 15 000 professionals to be placed on these equipment. Only that the form and framework of these 15 000 people sent for social care, especially for the homes, but not only, is totally wrong, totally wrong! It is, in fact, the tragic repetition of a mistake that we have already paid dearly in the past. These 15 000 professionals who now go to homes and other social equipment will work without a job contract. None of these professionals will have a job contract, they'll work with a scholarship. These 15 000 professionals, who are going to work, will not have a salary and we cannot be discussing what country we want for the future, to discuss the fight against precariousness, the importance of employment or social security and have a programme to strengthen social equipment where people who are sent to strengthen social equipment do not earn a salary, receive unemployment benefit and a scholarship because they are performing a socially useful activity. Workers without wages or contracts cannot be the model we want for strengthening social equipment. They are workers who, as they are working, continue to see their unemployment allowance to be counted, do not make discounts and repeat, through employment-inclusion contracts, this model of precariousness assisted by the State. It is the opposite of the solid and permanent response that we need, in such a sensitive area as the provision of care to the most vulnerable. The Left Block presents today a bill to convert the scholarships of professionals recruited for strengthening social equipment into labor contracts. We understand that this answer, which is important, cannot ignore the rights of these workers. We therefore believe that the labour relations of these professionals should be converted into a contract of work, that training and incentive mechanisms should be guaranteed for the institutions, so that they can permanently hire these workers and that, of course, this must be done in dialogue with the institutions in which they work. This seems to us to establish justice at a time when we need to respond to the pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of intervention. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: COVID-19, in addition to the consequences it has caused at various levels, has also made it very clear the situation of fragility and the insufficiency of technical and human resources in social equipment in general and in particular in residential structures for older people. And, as we always defend, the equipment and services to support the elderly must, first of all, be the responsibility of the State. That is, in fact, what comes from our own Constitution. It is still well known that over time governments have gradually sought to transfer this important responsibility, which is from the State, to private institutions of social solidarity. And without attempting to devalue, on the contrary, the importance that these institutions represent at the level of various valences, it is important not to lose sight of the fact that the work and the response given by private institutions of social solidarity should be seen as complementary to the public response that the State is responsible for ensuring, in the exact terms for which our constitutional text points. It follows that the Government, with a view to strengthening social equipment in the face of the emergency caused by the outbreak and also seeking to ensure the response capacity of public institutions and the solidarity sector, published Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020. From that point of view, the Government has sought that answer, promoting the precarious labour which the Government says it wants to fight. This is the case, in particular, for unemployed workers covered by employment-inclusion contracts, which are no longer, as we know, free of charge. In other words, in the face of the epidemic, the government has sought to respond to the overload caused by the COVID-19 through the so-called "socially useful work", which in this case means, precisely, to insist on precarious working relationships, with all the consequences and injustices that these labor relations represent for those who work. In our view, however, this government option is not only a sin for promoting the precarious work of the workers involved. This option of the Government also represents a sort of « let go», with regard to the need for a structural, permanent and quality response in the provision of care under the responsibility of these institutions. Therefore, in the light of what has been said, the Greens follow the legislative initiatives under discussion that will respond to the essential, and the essential thing for the Greens is, on the one hand, to remove the working precariousness of all professionals placed to strengthen support for social equipment, from the very beginning, in the homes of the elderly, and, on the other hand, to create the conditions for the necessary and urgent structural, permanent and quality response in the provision of such care, the responsibility of which must, above all, belong to the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u128	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is something particularly censorable when someone wants to take advantage of the misfortunes for his own benefit. Even more serious when this use is of a political nature and comes cynically disguised with concern to those who effectively need it. The Bloc and the PCP present to us today two bills that, pretending to be responding to the real problem of lack of means in various social equipment, which ultimately aims to fatten the state permanently to face a temporary need. But for these statists everything is a pretext to favor the state and ignore people. In the PCP project, the initial six-month contracts automatically turn into non-term contracts without any verification of their actual need at that time. It's spending without control, someone has to pay the bill, and that person is always the contributor. As for the Left Block, always certain of its intellectual and moral superiority, it simply states that the current needs are permanent. Don't even try to justify it, really. It doesn't work! It is no longer so easy for the PCP or the Bloc to remember that in the social sector it is not even the public units but, yes, the private ones and cooperatives, who do the most for the needy and who lack the resources and resources is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u130	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u131	I will now finish, Mr President. And the blame for this shortage is for the PS government, which likes to make social policy with the money of others. As the other bill reminds us of the authorship of the CDS, here also under discussion today, the PS government did not even want to update cooperation contracts with thousands of social equipment units.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u132	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u133	To take advantage of the misfortunes to make politics is, in fact, cynicism. These left party projects are a good example of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u134	The market has to solve!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u135	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our policies of institutionalization of our elderly, the proliferation of illegal homes, the lack of specialized human resources, the lack of conditions of these professionals, the difficulty in having access to these social responses by our elderly, the insufficient supervision and the lack of support in meeting the rules of hygiene and safety are in fact structural problems of the homes in Portugal. The truth is that this health crisis has put the elderly in a high-risk group and has also exposed the weaknesses and weaknesses that have always been seen but are now more obvious. Social sector entities and professionals are, in fact, fundamental to the provision of these services but clearly need more means and training. in this sense, throughout the health crisis, there were several proposals that the NAP brought here, and we left, for example, only to recall, the flexibility of the rules of access to the social credit line Invest, which was plunged with the vote against the PS and the abstention of PSD, PCP, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. We also proposed strengthening the Municipal Social Fund, so that municipalities, with their knowledge of the land, with their proximity, could support, financially and logically, the entities of the social sector in the context of measures to combat this health crisis, as well as that which has been plunged. In fact, we remember that we proposed the creation of a specific telephone line for home support in March, and the government has finally decided to implement it. After all, it always made sense. With regard to the proposals brought here, the proposal from the CFP seems positive to us because it repeals the government's office, ensuring that workers' will and professional experience are safeguarded in this recruitment, and basically ensures a response to the permanent needs of this sector, going to meet some of the concerns of the NAP in this area. With regard to the CDS-PP proposal for strengthening public funds transferred to these entities, we only regret that the CDS did not vote in favour of the NAP proposal for the Municipal Social Fund, which also sought to guarantee these support in other ways. In the case of the Left Block proposal, it seems to us that it has a vision in our wrong understanding and that the Government itself has already conveyed, with regard to strengthening the human resources of the homes, which must be taken into account by any unemployed person or beneficiaries of certain social benefits, ignoring the expectations, training and professional experience of those who are looking for work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u137	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u138	I shall now conclude, Mr President. In our understanding, it is urgent to clarify this, in view of the specificities of work at the level of the social economy and the provision of care for our elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u139	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The institutions of the social and solidarity sector play an essential role in Portuguese society, since they provide multiple support to populations throughout the country, with proximity, humanism and proficiency. Epidemic outbreaks and contingency measures have caused various social and economic constraints in the Portuguese population. The private institutions of social solidarity have proved, once again, to be able to do their best in supporting the most vulnerable. From now on, it is important to leave a word of appreciation and recognition to all IPSS professionals, that in day care, kindergartens, occupational activities centers, day care centers or homes, continue to give their best to ensure responses to childhood, disability or third age. The PSD has never doubted the merit and grandeur of the role of IPSS. We do not place reluctances in relation to their role, much less final points. For us, the proximity of IPSS to populations is the guarantee of the best implementation of public policies on the ground, either by maximizing responses to the needs of each population, depending on their particularities, or by better managing money, which is everyone's. Yes, it is up to social security to define public policies. Yeah, it's the IPSS who's in better condition to apply them. PSD has been attentive to what is happening in IPSS. In fact, the PSD has always been attentive to the IPSS and, for the most part, at this particularly difficult stage because they happen, as a result of the pandemic that blocks us, could not be otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's inertia in the responses that the IPSS claims, especially for the homes of the elderly, with unfortunate consequences, all of us regret. The CFP, which has now proposed measures, has helped lead, through abstention, a proposal from the PSD for the creation of a parliamentary subcommittee to monitor the situation in the homes during the pandemic, which - of course! — it deserved to be rejected by the PS. Of course, the government is like that, the bench that supports it too. We cannot be against the strengthening of workers in social equipment, we cannot be against extraordinary funding for this purpose, we cannot be against the strengthening of cooperation agreements with the IPSS, but the pandemic situation we are going through imposes exceptional measures, which are already late, with the consequences that we all unfortunately know. In its draft law, the CFP defends the hiring of workers for a minimum period of six months initially and the transition of term contracts to indefinite contracts. On the other hand, the Left Block defends the conversion into work contracts for the scholarships of recruited professionals to strengthen support for homes and other social equipment. The PSD believes that this is a subject that deserves discussion. It is a matter which deserves to be considered very well, through an extended participation of the various stakeholders. Yes, with the broad participation of interested parties. That is why the PSD proposal to set up a subcommittee to monitor the situation of households should have been approved. This is a time and a matter that must involve us all, from left to right, from government to opposition, from civil society to institutions. Only with a joint work, with contributions from all and with greater commitment from the state can we prevent what has happened in the homes. The PSD has long claimed that the State is diligent in terms of the commitment to cooperation with IPSS. And to be responsible and diligent means that, without prejudice to the regular updates of the Social and Solidary Sector Cooperation Commitment, which contractualizes the state funds to be delivered to the IPSS by the services provided, the same is updated in 2020, at 5, 83 %, with retroactives to January 2020. A proposal in this regard is already contained in draft resolution No. 298 / XIV, which the PSD presented in due course and which is already scheduled to be discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u141	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u142	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, we have to leave here a word of appreciation for the IPSS, which are developing truly extraordinary work, even in a crisis situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u143	Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating three draft laws here today, and the CFP aims to create a system for strengthening workers in social equipment and the revocation of the office mentioned in it. The draft law of the Left Block aims at the conversion into a contract of work of the scholarships of the recruited professionals to strengthen support for homes and other social equipment and the CDS aims to update, by 6 %, the cooperation undertaking concluded with the social and solidarity sector entities. Let me begin by referring to the projects of the Left Block and the PCP, to say that exceptional times require, too, exceptional measures. The programme of measures to support strengthening the emergence of social and health equipment is not a permanent measure. Because it is a temporary, exceptional measure, it is intended to respond to temporary situations of overload of entities resulting from the COVID 19 pandemic, such as, for example, increased activity, temporary disability of workers due to disease, prophylactic isolation, assistance to relatives or dependents. This exceptional measure has been essential to respond to the many difficulties faced by the country. The CDS project provides for a 6 % update of the cooperation commitment with the social and solidarity sector entities. With this project, the CDS presents itself again in this debate here in the Assembly, saying one thing and having done another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u145	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u146	Once again, it appears as a new, newborn party, but this new party that the CDS wants to be is a party that has history, has government history and the PS will not let it hide. in this recent history, the CDS had government responsibilities from 2011 to 2015, even being the Minister of Social Security from the CDS. During these four years of the CDS / PSD Government, the increase in cooperation agreements was 9, 5 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u147	What about the costs? Oh, my God! That was good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u148	The PS, between 2015 and 2019, increased these same agreements by 13 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] During the previous PS Government, there was an increase in the budget allocation for cooperation 54 % higher than that of the PSD Government / CDS. And at the beginning of 2020, there was an increase of more than 3 5 %, the biggest increase since 2009, when there was not yet a pandemic. I repeat, the biggest increase since 2009! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the course of the pandemic, there has already been another increase, an increase of 2 %, thus giving a sign of the Government's strong commitment to promoting partnership with the third sector. We easily all realize that the CDS, in opposition, asks a lot but, when it is in government, it is very little. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS, in this project, does not only talk about the institutions, it also talks about the families, saying that the less the state gives to the institutions, the more the institutions will charge the families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u150	So what did the CDS do to the families when it was government? To institutions we all realize that it gave very little, but I repeat, and to families what did the CDS do to families? The families cut, cut, cut. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] They cut wages, cut pensions, cut social supplement for the elderly and other social support. And what did the PS do to the families? The PS reversed all these cuts, increasing wages, pensions and social support. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And he did all this at the same time as guaranteeing the sustainability of social security and achieving the best budgetary exercises in the history of our democracy. The CDS looks at crises as an opportunity to reduce the social state, I repeat, an opportunity to reduce the social state. The PS already looks at the social state as the best tool for overcoming crises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u151	Yes, yes! From here till you kick your palms!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u152	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u153	I will finish, Mr. President. This is a huge difference between us and it is also because of this difference that most Portuguese today are saying that they want to continue to see the CDS, in opposition, to promise and the PS, in government, to comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u154	You don't believe what you're saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u155	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I was going to make an intervention, but I have already changed. After hearing this speech by our colleague Hugo Oliveira, I have decided to change my speech to a free intervention, as is commonly said. So I begin by stressing the enormous cynicism that the left has in this debate, because when the inspection budget goes down 17 % and the social equipment budget goes down 23 %, the CFP and the Left Block voted in favour of the Socialist Party's budget. Now they come here and ask where are the social equipment, but they voted in favour of the Socialist Party's budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u157	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u158	But I was even going to stay here when I heard Mr Hugo Oliveira say that "with us it is to take seriously and we will return all the incomes of the Portuguese". Mr Deputy, your Secretary-General, José Luís Carneiro, said a month and three days ago: « For us, the fight against precariousness in all sectors will be fundamental ». But, Mr President, if you look at the rules that are in force in the field of health and social equipment, no one would say that the Socialist Party's fight is precarious, which goes from the Prime Minister's office to the Mercy, where there is only precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u159	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u160	I will finish, Mr. President. So, listen here, Mr President, as if you were making a fundamental intervention, that the PS has resolved a situation that the PSD and the CDS have left, it can only be a huge political cynicism, greater than that of the Left Block and the PCP which, although reducing the social budget, approve your Budget. That's what's embarrassing. Go play violin home!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u161	Mr. André Ventura, I would like to thank you for taking some care in the use of a few sentences, since your last sentence was not pleasant, neither from a personal point of view, nor from a parliamentary point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u162	I wasn't talking to the speaker, I was talking up there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u163	Mr José Soeiro has the floor, which has 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What separates the left and right in this debate is not whether the State should pay for this care. In fact, the CDS presents itself in this debate proposing a strengthening of the role of the State, but I ask: what strengthens the role of the State? The IPSS funder? More than 90 million for IPSS is the result of the CDS project. [[They want it's State!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u165	It is only that we do not know what counterparts, whether from the point of view of the working environment or the care provided. That is why criticism of the Statism of the Liberal Initiative is an anecdotal. Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, proposes here the end of the cooperation agreements between the State and the IPSS, proposes the end of the financing of the State to the private sector, because it is the State that finances these workers, it is the State that pays the workers of the IPSS through the cooperation agreements. It is the State, through the IEFP and the scholarships, that pays the workers who will strengthen the social equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u166	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u167	The question is whether we want the State to be financing these forms of extreme precariousness or whether we think there should be counterpart. We say that, yes, sir, there is a reinforcement of professionals but with a contract; we say that, yes, sir, whenever the professionals are performing permanent needs they must have an endless contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u168	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u169	... and if they are replacing other workers, of course they must have an end-to-end contract. That is what the Left Block project proposes, and that is what makes justice and reinforces care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u170	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the closing phase and, since the initiative is of the CFP, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the PS : I would like to begin by saying that the problem in the institutions is far from being a temporary or exceptional problem and that is exactly why the CFP presents this proposal, in order to contribute to finally solving a problem with which the social sector institutions have been confronted for many years, which is the lack of workers, which, with this proposal presented here, can be resolved in a definitive way. Mr Commissioner for the Liberal Initiative, we have already noticed that, for you, and probably also for Mr de la Chega, the strengthening of workers who care for others, for workers who care for children, who care for young people, who care for the disabled, who care for the elderly, who care for people in situations of poverty, social exclusion and vulnerability — workers who are therefore in the social sector — must be done in any forced labour scheme. We believe that the strengthening of these workers must be done with all the labour rights to which these workers are entitled and not with the use of precariousness, as has been shown in all of the interventions that have been made here. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are four questions that need to be answered: is there a lack of workers in the IPSS? There is indeed a lack of workers in the IPSS! Is there a need or need to hire workers without precarious links, ensuring the workers needed for the institutions and that these same workers have wages, have social security discounts, have stability in their lives? Yes, sir, there is this need! Is there a need or need to ensure adequate training for these workers under the duties they will perform? Yes, sir, there is this need! Is there a need or need to effectively solve the problems that are felt in the social sector, in particular the strengthening of the number of these workers? Yes, sir, there is this need as life has shown and today shows even more! The final question lies with all the parliamentary groups here, with all the parliamentary groups that often show great concern about the social sector, so I ask who will be with the CFP in the vote on this proposal. This is the final question. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u172	Mrs. Members, we have entered into point 5, last and last of the agenda, which consists of the debate of draft resolution No 99 / XIV — Recommends to the Government the preparation of concrete measures, and on a permanent basis, to reduce the effects of the drought, presented by the CDS-PP, and of the Bills of Law No 155 / XIV ( PCP ) — Creates the National Plan for Structural Prevention of the Effects of Dryness and its Monitoring and 502 / XIV ( Unregistered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Creates the plan for the prevention and adaptation of the territory to the effects of drought. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u173	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating you and the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The problem that the CDS brings here today is neither new nor innovative, quite the contrary, the problem of drought and lack of water in Portugal is felt repeatedly, almost every year, and it is, indeed, this year, to make itself feel very acute throughout the country, much more in particular the south, in the Algarve. There have been many news related to the lack of water and the effects of drought on the Algarve. According to some studies, we are the country of the European Union with a greater risk of desertification and with more frequent and prolonged droughts. Obviously, we must face the problem this year, but we must also have a plan prepared for the high probability that it will repeat itself in the coming years and, above all, for it to worsen. On the other hand, and for the CDS, it is also clear that water is crucial for the competitiveness and modernization of agriculture and that agriculture is absolutely essential to us. In Portugal, irrigation is also a guarantor of territorial cohesion. For this reason, we present this draft resolution and we warn of the need to predict, plan and prepare. As possible concrete solutions to this problem of drought, we propose, on the one hand, to increase the efficiency of water use in all sectors, combating waste, which continues to be very much, not only in cities but also in irrigation systems. This includes, for example, incentives for the re-use of grey water and the use of rainwater in the construction and rehabilitation of the building. in this regard, I believe that public and authentic heritage should be the first to set the example. On the other hand, we also propose to increase the available water capture capacity, we propose to increase the storage capacity of existing trees, assessing the hypothesis that, in the case of dams, they go beyond the hydroelectric aspect and have multiple use. We also propose the realization or extension of new small and medium-sized dams and docks, we propose the rehabilitation of traditional regades, to improve efficiency and reduce system losses, and that the country place priority on the expansion and improvement of the efficiency of current irrigation systems, as a strategic element in the development of rural territories. in the same way, we also argue that a national plan of sustainable dams should be developed and adapted to reality, as well as evaluated the hypothesis of existing albums, explored only, as I said recently, in its hydroelectric aspect, they could have multiple use, moving, after negotiation for this purpose, to be used also for water and for public supply, if necessary. I see that several parties also presented bills, consecrating a plan against desertification and drought, and I would like to finish by ensuring that the CDS is absolutely available for a very broad consensus in this area. We certainly have very different views on the role of agriculture, but I believe this is a subject where we can find a consensus on some basic points. If it is possible for Parliament to reach consensus on concrete measures which can be recommended to the Government and enshrined in a legislative instrument, the CDS has every opportunity to ensure that all initiatives are feasible and that we reach broad consensus on this subject in particular. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u174	To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings the debate and presents in this House a national plan for the structural prevention of the effects of drought and also the follow-up of this plan. Indeed, Mr. Members, if we really want to respond to those who are the problems resulting from the drought and the use of water in Portugal, we must seriously assess the causes and consequences of the reality that the country faces. We well know that water is an essential asset to life and it is also decisive for increasing productivity, for increasing wealth, for national sovereignty and food, allowing that in our country can be produced what forces us to go shopping out there. They therefore rely on the CFP to present serious proposals, based on the assessment of the causes and consequences of the situation that the country is going through. We all know that reality is of enormous fragility, that it is structural and that it results, above all, from years of political options that did not, sustainably, respond to those that were the needs of our country, with regard to the use of water for agricultural and livestock purposes. The situation we are living in has been dragging for years. Over the past 10 years, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, only in the year 2014 did we arrive in September and we did not have a dry situation. This year, the problem is quite serious: we have basins, as is the case of the Sado river basin, in the region of Campillas and Alto Sado, which are in extreme drought; in the Algarve, the whole region, from the Barlavonto and even in the dam of Odeleite, is in a limited situation, with this dam reaching almost 10 % of its capacity. Even at the end of 2019, during the discussion of the State budget, we heard here the Minister move forward that this time would implement the entire dam construction plan and the hydrographic network. The truth is that we do not see a single work or steps to achieve it. The link between users of the Funcho dam in the Algarve is postponed for more than three governments and could be implemented, giving other answers. The Pisão dam could also give another answer to the North Alentejo. The same is said of Alqueva's connection to the dam of Monte da Rocha, in Ourique, where there is also a limited situation for both agriculture and livestock. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation where a plan is needed and therefore the CFP brings here what everyone, and even the CDS, are recommending, that it is an effective plan and with permanent measures. This plan which the CFP brings here is aimed at achieving the most different areas and interests related to drought, in particular what has to do with storage capacity, but also with the availability of water resources and the sustained use of water. Therefore, we present three programmes: a programme to strengthen the capacity to store water resources; an adaptation programme for agricultural activities; an adaptation programme for agricultural activities. The plan also incorporates a programme of implementation, monitoring and monitoring of its implementation, which, moreover, provides that it can be reviewed periodically, in order to be able to meet the needs of the country or not. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what your options are, we are sure that the country can no longer wait for the answer, which is this programme that we are presenting. We know that, if we start this path now, we can find solutions, but reality cannot be denied: we see the continuing fragility and destruction of public services and we need structural measures that allow the sustainable development of the rural world, the creation of employment with rights and the raising of wages, which combat the emphasis on depopulation, with consequences of desertification of the interior. It is this response that the proper use and management of water, accompanied by the use of soil resource, can give. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u176	To present your legislative initiative, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, the Dry Situation Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan was approved. However, the prevention axis only presents a list of vague measures, without targets for their implementation, without mentioning how strategies and programmes will be implemented and what bodies responsible for their implementation. It was not considered with the expected relevance the adaptability of agricultural crops to edafoclimatic conditions, the over-exploration of water resources in superintensive agricultural activities in regions predisposed to water scarcity, as well as factors such as soil desertification and water quality decrease due to the excessive use of fertilizers and pesticides. In addition to over-exploration of water resources in agricultural activity, there is still waste and inefficient use of water in livestock, industry, tourism and domestic use. It is therefore essential to determine integrated and cross-cutting measures for all sectors, with the proper determination of goals and objectives, to be achieved by each responsible entity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the stage of the speeches, to which Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, speaks, firstly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The climate change process is at an increasing rate, with increasingly dramatic consequences for the country and the world we know today. Drying is only one of the consequences of human activities on the climate system. Other extreme events are also increasingly frequent, as is the case with heat waves that amplify forest fires and strong winds and great precipitation that generate flooding and destruction of rural and urban spaces. Only a structural change in public policy can respond to the drama of climate change and its impacts, ensuring a large reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and the abandonment of the current extractive development model, which does not look at the means to gain profit. If this does not happen, there is no dam, there is no well or hole that ensures the necessary water supply. Therefore, the proposal of the Left Block is to create a basic law of climate for the country, responding efficiently to international commitments and solidarity. According to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), during 2017 it rained only two thirds of what is considered normal. And the Climate Portal indicates forecasts of 80 % reduction of average summer precipitation by the end of the century. It is not only necessary to promote the efficient use of water in irrigation agriculture, which currently accounts for around 80 % of national water consumption. It is necessary to change the paradigm and promote agricultural production systems of low consumption and drought, based on diversification of production, with rotations and cultural associations. thus, energy consumption, pesticides and fertilizers are also reduced, with an increase in global production. Monoculture systems are not solution and irrigation is not enough and should not be the main answer. In 2016, the irrigation represented only 11 % of the national agricultural area and about a third of the value of agricultural production. Thus, Portuguese agriculture is essentially a drought farming, in area and in production value. For more hydraulic works that occur, this reality cannot be changed significantly. Either public policy promotes the improvement of drought systems and the establishment of the population in rural territories or blind investment in irrigation will eventually result in an even greater abandonment of the territory, with fewer jobs and more fires. For this government, the response to drought is essentially made through the National Regadios Programme. It is EUR 560 million and more than 50 000 new hectares of irrigation for Alentejo, right for olive monocultures and superintensive peanuts. The promoters of this programme have never answered the remaining questions: what will happen to the agricultural and forestry areas of drought and its dependent populations? What impact will it have on its production and economic sustainability? What about the environment? What is the role of forests in regulating the water cycle? What concrete measures of forest policy should be implemented to combat drought? If the structural response to drought continues to be the irrigation and construction of more dams, if the irrigation continues to mean the intensification of agricultural and forestry monoculture, this will be the programme of desertification, soil destruction, destruction of biodiversity and water resources. The projects currently under discussion ignore part or all of this reality and therefore must be refused or improved in particular. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u180	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is good to see the CDS bringing proposals to improve water efficiency. We regret that the CDS forgets water efficiency when it promotes intensive agriculture, impoverishing existing water resources, both in quantity and in quality. On the dams, Mrs. Member, not a word on its impact on ecosystems, not a word on the possible removal of barriers that are unnecessary and that affect precisely the course of rivers and ecosystems. With regard to the proposals from both the CFP and the honourable Member, they present some aspects which we consider to be quite worthy, but they forget to focus on a fundamental issue: before new water plans, before long-term structural investments, it is in fact necessary to know the climate reality that the country has to face. After successive NAP proposals, the Government finally informed that it would move forward with an atlas of climate change in Portugal. It seems that, after all, it is always worth insisting on what is important to be done. However, there are measures that we consider very important to be implemented now, without waiting for the conclusions of this same climate change atlas. This includes: water efficiency and the fight against water losses; the conversion of intensive water use agriculture, particularly in the Alentejo and Algarve regions; the renegotiation of the Albufeira Convention, which still lives in the last century. If the exceptions to this Convention are not reviewed in the future, this will basically correspond to the absence of any minimum, annual, quarterly, weekly, or daily flows, which will, of course, endanger the ecological flow. In fact, it is natural until the government underlines that there is no breach of the leaders at the moment. There is no failure to comply because the exceptions provided for contained the main objective of this Convention, i.e. the existence of minimum flows. in this equation, in which the Portuguese State, the Spanish State and hydroelectric power plants are interested, clearly, the Portuguese Government chooses to place itself as the weakest link. in a scenario where water scarcity will be felt more and more in Portugal and where 58 % of our territory will be susceptible to desertification, it is urgent to act in order to define these flows so that they guarantee our water subsistence and the application of exceptional regimes compatible with current and future climate scenarios. Finally, a word for the Left Block, which we congratulated on having accepted the NAP challenge for a basic law of climate. We leave that same challenge to the other parties represented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u182	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u183	Ex. Mr. President, Mr. Members: I do not know whether the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action and the Minister for Agriculture are trying to solve the increasingly serious issue of the drought that hits the Lower Alentejo and the Algarve by resorting to some spell, such as rain dance. This is a legitimate doubt as the drought continues to haunt the Algarve, Lower Alentejo and other regions of Portugal without any serious initiatives by the Government. The year 2020 was another year in which, according to the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), the water percentage values in the soil were less than 20 % in some areas of Algarve and Lower Alentejo, in June. The alarm bells have sounded long ago, leading the Algarve Water company to announce that there were only reservations in the dams until December of this year. This period has already been extended, unfortunately, by the drastic breakdown of tourist activities, which has decreased consumption by around 9 %. from here some time, we may be confronted with the choice between having water on taps or water to produce food. In view of the seriousness of the situation, there are no concrete measures to combat drought by this Government. The Minister of the Environment points out the reuse of waste water as the most immediate solution to ensure greater water availability in the Algarve. I did not say, however, how soon this objective will be achieved. In the Algarve Regional Water Efficiency Plan, recently presented by the Government, the key phrase of the presentation was « The potential solutions to strengthen the supply of water in the region ». In other words, this means that they are not defined solutions, they are still under study. For the time being, we remain for the « potential ». Portugal is a vulnerable country exposed to climate change. Rain instability tends to worsen, with more extensive and severe drought periods occurring at the same time, with severe heavy rain phenomena occurring. As such, Mrs. Members of this debate are discussing several proposals in which the effects of the drought problem on agriculture are also addressed, particularly on the CDS initiative, which the PSD accompanies, which deals with the development of an investment plan to retain and store more water. However, we hope that there will be an extension of the area of irrigation, agricultural potential and its multiple use, bearing in mind, however, that this vision is already expressed in our electoral programme. The CFP initiative and even the non-registered Member do not intend to solve the problem of drought. They do not want any solution to the problem of supply of populations or production by the primary or secondary sector. What the CFP proposes is an attack on the market, on everything that works in a business way, which generates employment, value and wealth. What the CFP suggests is the end of the stream, the end of agricultural production to the market, which is environmentally, socially and economically sustainable, and the end of new agricultural productions that place Portugal among the best, which deserve our recognition and pride with national farmers. The CFP, with this initiative, does not hide what it wants: it aims for a poor country, without prosperity and without growth. He does not hide that he wants a poor, subsistence agriculture, unable to generate wealth and value. It recognises that it does not want viable productions, qualified jobs, innovation, science or technology in the production process. Mrs. Members, propose that traditional crops, such as wine, fruit growing or olive growing, do not have access to water resources in the productive system is a challenge to national farmers, to those who invested thousands of euros in their modernization, to those who patiently wait for the expansion of the irrigation so that the effect of water can create more efficiency in food production, and to all of us, who aspire to better living conditions for the Portuguese. So when the CFP once again says that it is next to national agriculture, national farmers, landscape and territory guards, we will all know that this is not true. As such, the PSD naturally advocates an expansion and expansion of the water storage system. It is only thus possible to reconcile the production of food in the territories most subject to long periods of drought. As such, Mrs. Members, the PSD believes that Portugal needs a national strategy for adaptation to the effects of drought and climate change and for the careful management of water. There is also a need for the urgent determination of integrated and cross-cutting measures to all sectors of activity, with the determination of precise objectives for each responsible entity. What really hurts is that Mr. João Dias, who presented the PCP project, is not present, which demonstrates the clear importance it attaches to this bill. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u184	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed one of the most pressing problems of our time, that of climate change and its incidences on drought in our territory, with particular gravity in the region south of the Tejo but already feeling in the rest of the country. The Greens Ecological Party has been alerting for decades and therefore sees with good eye the consensus that has been achieved in the meantime on concern about this issue. But if the concerns about drought and its impacts in the country for the populations, on the one hand, and also for nature and biodiversity, on the other hand, seem to generate consensus, the way of combating and mitigating its effects will no longer have the same consensus. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution is not to add any more dams. This is the solution of recent decades, which, as it is evident, has not solved any problems. What is needed is to ensure two essential lines: first, it is necessary to change the paradigm of water use, drastically reducing use and waste. in this sense, there will have to be a bet in cleaner industries, with less water use, with a view to the future. On the other hand, it will have to bet on another model of agricultural production, based on small and medium-sized agriculture and family farming. Unfortunately, this is not the option of the PS Government, but it would not be the choice of other parties here, as we have just heard in the last intervention. Just listen to the statements of the previous Minister of Agriculture, for example, saying that the superintensive olive oil spends as much water as the other crops, rather than compare with the traditional olive oil, or the words of the Minister of Agriculture, who, a few days ago, said that the superintensive production of avocados in the Algarve does not spend more than the other productions, comparing well with the olive oil! These are words that fit in the statements of love of the current Minister of Agriculture for large farms, which lead it to interviews in which it does not refer only to small and medium-sized agriculture. Finally, we agree with the view that monitoring, both prevention and the definition of priorities for the use of water in the event of scarcity. However, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether the structures of the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and others have the human resources for the intervention necessary for this fight against drought. That, we don't think so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u186	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u187	Mrs Paula Santos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u188	I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u189	On the conduct of the work, Mrs. Deputy? What is the problem with the conduct of work?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u190	Mr President, references have been made to Mr João Dias, in fact only because of dishonesty and bad faith. Mr João Dias is in the committee of inquiry, which is running simultaneously at the plenary session, and cannot be in both places at the same time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u191	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u192	No one is obliged to know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u193	Dishonesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u194	It's not dishonesty! I don't have a crystal ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u195	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by apologizing to Mr. Pedro Sousa, for sending him home to play violin. It is not my style of politics, but here is an apology for the most inappropriate behaviour in the face of the situation. [[PS protests.]] Portugal consumes more water than it should, this becomes evident. But we must also realize that 74% of the water consumption in Portugal is for agriculture and livestock. So far, Portugal deserved to have a much more effective plan, if there is any plan, in defense, above all, very important, when we look at the data on the effects of drought in July and August this year. We don't. But what we have is a statement by the Minister of Environment and Climate Action, who in February said the following: « Until March, we will have the basis of a water emergency plan for regions like Algarve, in order to be able to fight the problem of drought permanently ». Today is the time to ask the Socialist Party : where is the water emergency plan for the Algarve and its solid bases of inclusion in Portugal? It's just that we didn't say it! It wasn't enough, no other party! It was the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action, fighting this terrible scourge, which is the drought and destruction of agriculture in Portugal, who said that until March - we are in September - we would have this plan, especially for regions like the Algarve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u197	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. Algarve wants to know where this plan is and today it was a good day to give that answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u199	Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The frequency of weather drought situations that have occurred in mainland Portugal in recent decades, with the possibility of being made worse by the effect of climate change, implies an increase in the risk and vulnerability to this phenomenon, and may lead to an increase in its impacts on water availability and, consequently, on existing uses with a particular incidence in the agricultural sector and, necessarily, on an economic and social level. In view of the uncertainty and unforeseeability of drought and its impacts, the Socialist Party's Government has devoted constant attention to this phenomenon, establishing an integrated framework of measures aimed at future occurrences of a phenomenon whose effects need to prevent, monitor and intervene in contingency situations. in this context, we approved the Prevention, Monitoring and Contingency Plan for Dry Situations, structured into three axes of action: prevention, monitoring and contingency. This Plan harmonizes concepts, harmonises procedures for action by different management actors, defines thresholds for agrometeorological dry and hydrological dry alerts, combines measures at each of the alert levels identified and clarifys the responsible entities at each level of action. It is in this context that the Standing Committee on the Prevention, Monitoring and Monitoring of the Effects of Drought is set up, which is technically advised by a working group. As a result of the action of this Commission, the basis for the Regional Plans for Water Efficiency of Algarve and Alentejo, as well as the regional drought plans, which, in a geographical matrix of greater detail, address the differentiation of the problems of particular scarcity in each region. On 16 September the Algarve Regional Water Efficiency Plan was presented, listing 57 measures whose implementation corresponds to an investment of EUR 228 million, most of which are intended for the agricultural sector — 22 measures worth EUR 79 million — although the urban component has the highest investment, EUR 122 million. Because the legislation and the planning of water resources currently in force already include the necessary provisions for the definition of ‘multiple uses’ and because irrigation is a guarantor of territorial cohesion, Pission Dam in the Upper Alentejo will be a reality. The National Regadios Programme takes into account the planning of investments related to water storage for irrigation purposes. It should be noted that under this Programme projects are planned to promote the interconnection of dams with greater regulatory capacity with those of smaller size, thus strengthening the availability of water for public supply — for example, the Alqueva connection to Monte da Rocha and the increase of alqueva afluent flows to Vigia. Sustainability assurance is one of the main priorities of the government. Efficiency in the use of resources is a permanent goal and present in all measures of government action, in particular as regards the technological and innovation area. The bet on precision agriculture and the guarantee of transversal access to these tools is synonymous with the bet on sustainability and also water efficiency. Strengthening the alliance between agriculture, research, technology and innovation is one of the main objectives defined, always paralleling the commitment to the inclusion of the farmer. Portugal already has several planning instruments, some of them associated with Community directives and therefore privileged in the context of the evaluation of projects candidates for Community funds: in addition to the PNPOT (National Land Management Policy Programme), there is the National Water Plan, which defines the national strategy for integrated water management. The Hydrographic Region Management Plans, the Flood Risk Management Plans, the drought and scarcity management plans by river region, the Coastal Orla Programmes, the Strategic Plan of the Common Agricultural Policy — in preparation — are well illustrated by the legislation and planning currently in force, and there is no need to create more territorial management plans. The most important thing is that all sectoral programmes take into account the plans developed in water resources, duly articulated with environmental objectives, in order to effectively enable the use of water more appropriate to reality and greater equity. The concerns contained in the explanatory statements of the projects under review...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u201	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u202	I shall conclude, Mr President. The concerns contained in the explanatory statements of the projects under review have been taken up in terms of planning and integration into the existing and implementing plans. The way is going, the proposals that are presented to us have nothing new. only by repeating and doubling much of what the government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u203	To close the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u204	Mr President, I would begin by saying that it was visible and obvious in this debate — I began by talking about the consensus and now I shall begin by talking about what divides us — that there are very different views, in this plenary, on these issues. For some parties, and for one in particular, I suppose, agriculture and livestock are enemies of climate and environment. Now, I would like to say that I have an absolutely opposite view: from my point of view, farmers and breeders are the real guardians of the territory and do much more for the environment and the climate than many activists plan demonstrations in their apartments within the city. This is a radically different vision and this, in fact, separates us. I would also like us to think and meditate on one particular aspect. Much has been said about the consumption of water in livestock and agriculture, but we cannot analyze the consumption of water and the quantities of water consumed without seeing, on the other hand, the quantity of food produced. It must be understood that the water used to produce food is not wasted water, it is not lost water, it is water that is incorporated in these foods. Without doing this analysis, and just because this analysis is not done, it can then lead to completely simplistic views and persecution of agriculture and livestock. In fact, I would like to know if some of these parties, who have this vision of the diabolization of what they call'superintensive agriculture', propose, in these basic laws and in this great defence of the climate, goals of reducing food production. It is necessary to realize that this is what they are proposing, that is, they are proposing that Portugal produce less food. It must be noted that, when it is said that there can only be small family farming and, at the same time, one speaks of food sovereignty, if at the same time he is proposing that less food be produced and then saying that food sovereignty is wanted. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is contradictory and violates the most basic rules of common sense. Having said this, and to clarify our differences, we are available to, as a specialist, the things in which we can agree, that are some, we will find this agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. In the meantime, Mr President-in-Office has the floor to announce the introduction of some initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted to draft resolution No 663 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the opening of an emergency service at Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, which drops to 9. the Commission, and Draft Law No 524 / XIV / 2. a (CH) — By increasing the parental leave granted to mothers and parents in the country, thus contributing to strengthening family ties and, consequently, the birth rate. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-24.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. Mrs. Members of the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will start at 10 a.m., have a number of points. First of all, we will review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 46 / XIV — Third amendment to Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August 2006 on the monitoring, assessment and delivery of the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. In the second point we will review the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 55 / XIV — Fifth Amendment to Law No 43 / 90 of 10 August ( Exercise of the right to petition ). of the third point is the discussion of Parliamentary Investigations Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( CH ) — Establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the financing of political campaigns by the Espírito Santo Group ( GES ), as well as the divestment operations of assets of the New Bank, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — possible parliamentary investigation commission for the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund, 6 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — possible parliamentary investigation commission for the reasons of the losses of the New Bank and 7 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — any parliamentary investigation commission for losses recorded by the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund. Fourthly, we will discuss draft resolution No 553 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government intervene with the Spanish Government in order to close the Almaraz nuclear power plant. At the fifth point, we will discuss joint draft resolutions Nos 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — A rigorous study on the reality of child labour in Portugal, with a view to its total eradication and 289 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prepare a national study on child labour. of the sixth point is, without assigned time, the Draft Deliberation No. 10 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — The first amendment is made to Resolution No 4 - PL / 2019 of 6 November ( List and composition of standing parliamentary committees ). Finally, in point 7 we shall have a regular vote, as usual. I wish you all a good afternoon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 13 minutes.]]
