ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Before we move on to the first item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolution No 486 / XIV / 1. a, from the PS, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do the favor of reading the file, which will be very fast, comparing with what happened yesterday's session. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, announce the withdrawal of Bill Nos 176 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 91 / 2015 of 29 May, allowing the application of the career system to the workers of the Transitional Staff Framework, and 434 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional and temporary scheme for the suspension of the contract of work for non-pocket payment. It's just, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Today, the effort was not great, but it was intense. Let us then proceed to the discussion of the draft resolution No 486 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal in the context of the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. To open the debate, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the most competitive tourist destinations in the world and tourism is the largest export economic activity in Portugal, represented 18, 6 % of the total exports of goods and services in the country. The performance of tourism has already been recognized by the overwhelming majority of this House, through a vote of praise approved in this Parliament. However, thanks to the COVID-19, the growth of the Portuguese economy and tourism, which in recent years has been above the European Union average, has been interrupted. Tourism is the sector most affected by this pandemic. This is by far the biggest crisis ever that tourism has faced. in this sense, the Government has been adopting a set of very important measures to support companies, employment and, in some cases, specifically for tourism. Nevertheless, recognizing the particular relevance of tourism to the national economy and in order to complement and strengthen the action of the Government, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group placed in the parliamentary debate and to the consideration of this House a draft resolution recommending that the Government strengthen the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal. In this draft resolution, 10 measures, which I stress 10 measures, which recommend to the Government the following: within the framework of the Tourism Strategy 2027, adopt a plan for action to support and boost tourism tourism operations in Portugal, which includes a set of integrated measures, strengthening action in the short term and at the same time recommend to the Government the following: within the framework of the Tourism Strategy 2027, it adopts a plan of action to support and boost tourism tourism tourism in Portugal, which includes a set of integrated measures, strengthening action in the short-term and at the same time by preparing for the sector's future for the medium and long-term; creates and strengthens support for enterprises, including deep-lossed incentives; promotes the development of load and flow capacity limits and management of tourist flows in the main areas and tourist flows management of tourist flows in the main areas of national tourism measures; strengthens the attractiveness and promotion of tourism measures; strengthens the attractiveness and promotion of national tourism tourism and tourism activities in order for the regions of the regions of the autonomous regions of the autonomous regions of the autonomous regions of the autonomous regions of the Azores, the Azores of the Azores, the Azores, and of the stocks and of Madeira region and of Madeira, and Madeira region, and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira of Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira and Madeira, and Madeira of Madeira of Madeira, and Madeira of Madeira, the route, and Madeira, the track, and Madeira, and Madeira, the route of the track, the track, the route, the track, the route, the route, the route, the route; the continent ; the continent, the track, the continent ; will, the route ; is the continent ; is for the continent ; is the continent ; is the continent ; is the role ; is the continent; is the continent; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role of the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role; is the role of the These are just a few measures that we consider important for an activity that has made a great contribution to our economy and has employed thousands of people throughout the country. Finally, it is important to remember that tourism played a very important role in the outcome of the last crisis that Portugal faced. It has helped to restore hope, employment and economic growth in recent years. Now, in this pandemic crisis, in which tourism is the most affected sector, it is time for the country to pay back to national tourism what it has given us in recent years. It is time to support entrepreneurs and hotel workers, restaurants, tourist animation and many other companies that have made Portugal an international reference destination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This responsibility for supporting tourism is certainly the responsibility of the State, as it has been doing, and it is also up to each one of us, of every Portuguese. Therefore, with security and respect for prevention rules, this is the time for all of us to make our contribution. It is time to choose the best tourist destination in the world and this best tourist destination in the world is Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u5	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strong growth of tourism in Portugal, especially in recent years, has not only had positive impacts on GDP ( gross domestic product ). It has also had negative impacts on the environment and on the quality of life of populations, especially in Lisbon and Porto, with a strong real estate speculation, which has made housing prices virtually inaccessible to local citizens, with noise production, including during the night, and with increased pollution. The fact that our economy is too dependent on tourism, which accounts for more than 10 % of GDP, has weakened us in the face of shocks such as those caused by the health crisis we are experiencing. We do not want to say that we are diabolical of tourism. Tourism has brought positive things, but we must also look to the other side of the coin, which shows precisely these factors that we have just mentioned. At environmental level, we highlight the level of noise in areas surrounding airports, cruise ships in cities such as Lisbon — which, according to a study conducted for Croatia, present environmental impacts and costs six to seven times greater than economic benefits, as it is rarely done or presented — the occupation of areas previously classified as Nature Network for tourism enterprises, waste treatment, among other aspects that are never considered. For all this, the NAP argues that the Government promotes the allocation of incentives to entities or individuals that develop tourism activity in regions with lower population density and a study on the ability to carry out tourism in cities with greater pressure, such as Lisbon and Porto. In fact, the Government must move forward with such initiatives — something we have asked for for years — and evaluate the impact of tourism on quality of life, focusing on a number of subjects, such as noise and environmental pollution, urban waste treatment, housing, transport, climate change, health services, water and its scarcity, especially in times of extreme drought, and response to emergency plans. The draft resolution that the PS presents to us makes only a timid reference to the need to strategically reformulate the type of tourism in which we should bet on our country: a tourism that contributes to the quality of life of the populations, which effectively promotes the protection of the environment and the reduction of regional asymmetries, which still make one feel. And he makes timid references because, according to reality, he demonstrates us, this government says that it has priority to combat climate change, but, in practice, it helps climate change with oil subsidies and pollution industries, which is clearly inconsistent. This issue, for the NAP, is a red line. The country must bet on combating climate change, mitigating its effects on our territory and preserving ecosystems and biodiversity. It is time for the country to bet on all people and not just on the interests of some. Another issue that is also a red line is support for, for example, TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), which is the third largest national pollutant. I am saying again: it is the third largest national pollutant and it is in the top 10 European of the most polluting airlines. The NAP argues that only with environmental performance counterparts can there be State support for TAP. This must also be re-considered for truly sustainable tourism from an environmental and social point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u7	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also think that Portugal is a wonderful country, but, judging by this draft resolution, the PS believes that Portugal is the « Country of Wonders » and then behaves like Alice, full of haste, lost and fighting when the Cat answers: « For those who do not know where to go, any path serves». That is why I say that, in this draft resolution with 19 points, the strategy of international promotion, which represents only 70 % of the sleeping and 100 % of the impact on the commercial balance, appears there to the end in 14. the place. For PS, know where it's going to appear on 14. the place. Therefore, any path serves. And it wasn't hard to have good clues to choose where to go: it was just to see what worked in the last decade, the gold decade of Portuguese tourism. We had several water shieldings and without fear of innovating, of various parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u9	Get lost, basket!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u10	...we had tens of thousands of people to see in tourism an opportunity to change our lives, we had a bold and clear strategic positioning and none of this seems important to the PS. The tax burden was dismissed. It does not seem important for PS, as it appears in 17. the place. Rates and emoluments were eliminated. It does not seem important for PS, as it appears in 16. the place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. The access and registration of various tourist activities was brutally simplified. This point already appears in 4. the place, but after all it is only simplification of the defining measures due to the COVID-19. Simplify and decomplicate the sector as a whole does not seem important to PS. Therefore, in this « Wonderland », the PS ventures to be told by the Hatter: « It has one foot in the abyss and another in fantasy ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u13	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution brought by the PS is important, because it gives us the opportunity to bring reflections on a sector of activity that has been predominant in the Portuguese economy, with very large growth in recent years. Indeed, making the economy, especially in some cities in our country, of only one sector clearly has negative points, such as, in fact, we had been alerting over the years: real estate speculation and brutal rise in housing prices; working precariousness, linked to a seasonal sector, still dependent on informal workers, therefore, without rights and with low wages; worsening local gentrification processes; or increasing territorial conflicts. But more than that, whether about this sector or any other, monoculture always has another disadvantage: it is that, in times of crisis, the existing dependence brings objective difficulties in recovery. It is now, when we have to think about the support measures for the recovery of the economy, that we must also rethink the tourism sector. Economic support measures must have two absolutely essential aspects: on the one hand, concrete support for the maintenance of employment and, on the other hand, a longer-term plan which the sector thinks from a structural point of view. For this reason, we believe that any plan to respond to the crisis caused by the fall in the tourism sector must first have the protection of employment with rights. On the other hand, it should equalise the possibility of productive conversion, particularly in large cities. Thousands of homes that are needed must be brought back to the permanent housing market, as well as opportunities for job retraining and the entry of thousands of people working with contract, rights and decent wages. Tourism can, and must, be sustainable, have quality in employment and it is at this time that the decisive choices for that future must be made. from the Left Block, we will leave no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u15	You now have the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current crisis is really very challenging for everyone. We know that social and economic issues will be sectors that need more attention and concrete initiatives to overcome the difficulties such as unemployment, public health and the survival of each other. In Portugal, the tourism sector is faced with the greatest difficulties because the COVID-19 stopped the movement of people among the different countries of the world. It will therefore be one of the sectors that will need more investment and support so that it can be relaunched and so that businesses in the area survive this phase of confinement until the reopening of the borders. The tourism sector will suffer serious losses: unemployment, closure of businesses and closures of local investments, which often go through the promotion of localities. In Portugal, many villages had an important source of income in tourism, from local accommodation to crafts. We recall that many of the land transports were also used for the development of inland tourism and therefore served its populations. With the decrease in the number of tourists, many of these localities were once again isolated and without any possibility of developing their small and medium-sized enterprises, which lived only from tourism. Therefore, the Greens are not against any support proposal to leverage national tourism, nor do we oppose the PS proposing to the Government that sensitize the authorities, which are mostly the PS, to suspend the rates against which we have voted. We consider, however, that this would be the ideal time to work another vision for tourism in Portugal, sustainable, which does not contribute to the pollution of the main Portuguese water lines, either on the Douro or on the Tejo. Nor will it be acceptable to encourage companies to be indebted to the government then decide to turn the country into a 'Switzerland cheese', betting on the exploitation of lithium in places that the population is currently preserving and where true sustainable tourism is practised. The issues of movement and mobility are important so that national and international tourists can know our territory and that it is possible to travel safely, comfortably and contribute to decarbonization. Unfortunately, this is not what we saw, because we knew that Renfe (Network) Railway Spain) announced not to resume nearby—and who knows if he will ever again! Is that what you're talking about? — the hotel train between Lisbon and Madrid, which is the only railway link between the two capitals. There is a lack of concern here about the necessary change of behaviour and the real urgent change to stop climate change, which is not done with words only, but with action. The exercise that PS brings us here today is a kind of life proof. Bad, it doesn't, but it takes a lot more than that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u17	All right! It doesn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u18	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS begins this intervention by expressing and accompanying the Socialist Party's concerns about the tourism sector and the impacts caused by the COVID itself. There are, of course, several impacts: at GDP level, at employment level, at business level, at insolvency level, at competitiveness and also at export level. It is clear to everyone that air transport, hotels, restaurants, companies linked to the tourism sector were the most fused, the most affected by this global crisis. We have the World Tourism Organization pointing to breakbacks on international tourist trips, only for this year, in the order of 60 to 80 % and we also have the International Labour Organisation saying that there will surely be more than 12 million unemployed in Europe affected by this crisis, with particular impact on the housing sectors and also on the restoration. It is good to remember that tourism is the main export activity of goods and services in the country — anything like 19 %. Clearly, what is happening deserves our concern and, as I said, the CDS follows measures that aim to support and relaunch the country's tourist activity. However, there is something absolutely surprising in this draft resolution of the Socialist Party, something that the CDS has come to point out and propose initiatives in this regard. We are surprised by two things: the first is that the Socialist Party, in this draft resolution, assumes that there is a lack of substantial support for companies, that money is missing. On the other hand, it also says that the State should simplify and have less bureaucracy in relation to the support lines. This has been precisely the great criticism that the CDS has made and that today the Socialist Party recognises in this draft resolution and in this debate. The Socialist Party also recommends something that we accompany, which is the elimination, the suspension of the tourist rate, in order to make housing prices more competitive. The CDS agrees with this, but it was important that the Socialist Party itself could convince Dr. Fernando Medina, precisely, to suspend this same tourist rate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u20	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a sector that needs salvation, it is tourism. Fortunately, there are other sectors in which the recovery occurs, but in the case of tourism, this is not the case. Tourism is affected asymmetrically. In principle, it will have much higher losses than in other sectors and it is expected that the recovery will only take place at the Passover of 2021. In view of this, the fundamental question that we should address, in addition to other generic proclamations of empty content, which have just translated nothing relevant to the sector and to the despair in which people live, is the following: how do we manage to overcome the gap in external tourism? External tourism accounts for 70 % of sleeping. As much as we do, as much as we stimulate domestic tourism, we will still be far from the sector's needs and we will see companies falling into a catapult, such as a dominus, with job losses and many difficulties. So, on the one hand, we must look at the external market, not abdicate the summer and take the necessary measures, from a health point of view, demanding and robust measures that guarantee the safeguard of the tourist destination, but, on the other hand, after that, to ensure the support to companies, those which, in this sector, have to be much more radical, stronger and robust, in order to ensure that these entrepreneurs, who are persistent, do not give up because they do not see light at the bottom of the tunnel. In addition to far-reaching measures, what the Government has to do is present a specific plan and solve problems that people face every day. The ADAPTAR programme, with 50 million, ran out, and people had deep support lost. The PS says that there must be substantial support lost, but the "turnover" is closed and people are left with nothing, even if they have applied. As for the property of the people under local housing arrangements who could migrate to rent, exempting them from value added and guaranteeing them an alternative because these people, for years, have built opportunities and contributed to the strengthening of tourism in the country, so far, nothing has been done about this. With regard to tourism, it is very nice and very comforting to follow the general concerns of the Socialist Party regarding this matter by putting us next to a photograph which has long been taken and which consistently many political forces in Parliament have urged the Government to take action, but the fundamental question is that this plan still does not exist. Today, we have administrative bureaucracy that we should not have, we have restrictions that make no sense, as is the case with restaurant schedules, which can be extended, with gain for public health. It is not clear what will be done at airports and at borders to present Portugal today and tomorrow as a secure tourist destination, because that is what guarantees that summer will not be lost, because that is what guarantees those companies that will have future. And for that neither the Government nor the PS have so far provided an answer that justifies our consideration for these measures. You have to do more because this is crucial to save a sector that is completely desperate and that has been responsible for job creation, which we cannot lose. On the day that recovery and recovery come, this sector will be indispensable for Portugal to recover more quickly and in better conditions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u22	Mrs Deputy has the floor, but Mrs Deputy, Joacine Katar Moreira, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u23	Mr. President: For years we have looked successively at this area of tourism as a fundamental area for the national economy. And it, indeed, is. But it is insufficient we look at this area only as an area that enriches us, because we need to question ourselves, then, whether it effectively enriches us and whether this enrichment is for the generality of people. It is that if this were indeed regions such as Madeira and Algarve today, it would not be the impoverished regions that are effectively. Nor can one ignore the negative social, economic and environmental impacts that the tourism sector has originated successively. in this necessary investment, in this recovery, it is necessary not to forget the thousands of workers who are still taking poor orders, in a situation of absolute difficulty. If it is to enrich, they enrich, above all, individuals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u24	You now have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the beginning, the support and relaunch of tourism in Portugal, because of the importance of this sector in the economy of our country and, more importantly, in the face of the particularly difficult situation that arises, with the consequences of the pandemic crisis of COVID-19, I said, in the beginning, a proposal in this direction would not be controversial or should not be. in this as in other discussions on tourism, we are all certainly in accordance with a view of promoting and valuing the sector and our country in its potential in this area, with investment, with respect, of course, for the rights and interests of the people and for the environmental balance. But in addition to this approach, it is then necessary to address a central issue in this debate: who are we talking about when we talk about the tourism sector? Of what interests? From what realities? It is that, both in the recitals and in the proposals, the PS project talks about tourism and industry as if it were all the same — micro and small companies or multinational economic groups. It is not a single case, several were the interventions that aligned with the same bottle.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u26	They're all zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u27	According to Banco de Portugal's most recent data on the pre-COVID situation, the tourism sector had 39 256 micro-enterprises, which, as a whole, recorded 96 million euros of negative results, while the 53 large companies in the sector — which they are, 53 — reported 245 million euros of profits. The microenterprises paid 60, 3 million euros of taxes, the large companies paid 57, 4 million such as threatened those fabulous profits. And then we ask: these support from the lost state, this training, these reductions or exemptions from fees that the PS proposes serve to benefit who?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u28	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u29	This is a blind measure, which also gives public money to these multinationals? There has to be a clear and concrete reference to this matter, just as there must be a very firm rejection of these movements which are already there, with the use of barefoot, for a new offensive, in open war, to the rights of workers in the sector. by the visas, the inflammity of low wages and the exploitation of workers in the tourism area remains taboo. On that, the PS doesn't have a word, but it's not the only one. About that, there are those who can't have one word. And don't be told to choose between low wages and unemployment, because the workers were exploited scandalously year after year, even in this golden decade of tourism. The workers have to be. Try it, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, open hotels without workers. Who creates wealth is work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u30	What about the job? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u31	...and the sector worker must be more respected. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u32	You have the floor to use the remaining time, Mr Nuno Fazenda, of the PS Parliamentary Group, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u33	Mr. President, I will be very brief. In the 15 seconds that I still have, I would like to comment on the intervention of the NAP. In fact, you only have a dark version of tourism. In fact, there are some forms of tourism in which one of them is the dark tourism. You can't see anything positive about tourism. Are you happy now that we don't have tourists in the country? Maybe, they are! It is that now, in fact, there is no tourism, there are no environmental impact problems now. This is a point I'm leaving. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I tell you more: Portugal is 12. the most competitive tourist destination in the world and we were considered three times the best tourist destination in the world. You think they were visiting us if we didn't have environmental quality? I leave this question to you to reflect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I would like to remind you that we have a tourism strategy called "Tourism Strategy 2020 - 2027" for 10 years, and that we have grown over the last 10 years and in the last five record beats in sleeps and recipes. We grow more in revenue than in sleeping, we grow throughout the year and throughout the territory, we rise three positions in relation to competitiveness...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u34	Sir, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: what you have told us was only the plan for the hierarchy of measures, because, in fact, the substance was not at stake, but the hierarchy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u36	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u37	...and it would be useful if you shared one or two concrete proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u38	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u39	Mr. President: When we hear the Socialist Party, it gives us the feeling that it is the Socialist Party that is calling tourists out of this world! It seems we are seeing the flag of the Socialist Party : « Come to the beaches of Comporta! » « Enjoy the best tourism in Portugal! , « We are in 3. Oh! , « We are at 5. o’. Let's be serious! The truth is this: the Socialist Party has allowed Portugal to become the most tourism-dependent country in the world — 14% of GDP is tourism. And it is not because of António Costa, nor Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, it is because of an economy that was not well planned and a financial structure that was not well made. At the last meeting we had, all the parties, with the Socialist Party and with the Government of Antonio Costa, asked what was the strategy for the fall of GDP. It's waiting! Waiting for tourism to come back, waiting for GDP and European demand to increase again and waiting for us to get the CFP and the Left Block to pass a few more taxes there for the supplementary budget when the time comes! Your farce is over! Tourism is over and now we're going to see who knows how to manage the economy and who knows how to manage the finances!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u41	I will finish, Mr. President. Yesterday, we had Antonio Costa sitting here saying "the crisis will be brutal", as if we did not know that the crisis will be brutal. But now, My Lords, your time has come! Now they're going to tell the Portuguese that they're going to cut wages, pensions and there's no money for anything else and I want to see if they're going to survive this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u42	Hello, hello, hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u43	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current pandemic crisis has exposed the weaknesses of the country, in particular the regions that live the most in this economic activity, which is tourism. We see what happens in the Algarve, where there is more than 80% of the tourist activity, the result of a wrong economic model over several decades, of the responsibility of PS and PSD — PSD which was also the party of Mr André Ventura, who has just spoken — which has led to the situation we are living today. Of course, the Left Block shares the concerns of the Socialist Party, but we must move from words to acts. I mean that according to the public data, the Algarve in April this year more than doubled unemployment was more than 123, 9 % unemployment compared to April last year, while in Lisbon and Tejo Valley more than 28, 7 %. Therefore, extraordinary measures are needed, employment-oriented social support and public investment, but also not to drop those small and micro-enterprises, because many people live in tourism: small entrepreneurs, artisans, travel agents, etc. We need to channel support for these people. Now, at a more structural level, why not move forward with a little more substantive measures? For example, end the tolls of the Via do Infante, which are cancer in the Algarve? Or the requalification of the national road No 125, between Vila Real de Santo António and Olhão? These are structural measures for which concrete steps need to be taken and continue on this development path. It is not enough words, it is necessary to move on to practice. Why not take advantage of the time for economic diversification, bet on fisheries, agriculture, other companies, new technologies, reinforce the role of the university? This is what we will bet on in the future and in a region with development. For that, the Left Block will be available. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has already presented here, in Parliament, and will soon be discussed, a set of measures for the Algarve and we hope that the PS and PSD will vote on these measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u45	Mr. Deputies, it is my responsibility, but in any case it has greatly exceeded your time. To close the debate, Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two or three previous notes. First note, regarding the international recognition of Portugal, I must say that it was not us who recognized ourselves. They were international organizations, such as the World Economic Forum, and other prestigious organisations that recognized Portugal as a tourist destination of preference. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u47	This is due to various moments of governance and to the work of tourism companies which have also made Portugal a reference destination. Second note, in fact, tourism is important, this has become clear today, but we have 83% of exports from the country and we have reached export records in recent years, which now account for 44% of GDP. We have also reached record in investment capture, EUR 1, EUR 2 billion. Therefore, it is also important to have this in mind in other sectors of activity. of the great key ideas, I retain only three that I want to share in this debate. First key idea: this draft resolution is timely and, in our view, substantive and relevant measures for Portuguese tourism are a contribution to the recovery phase. As for the phase of confinement, today the work that has been done by the Government in the area of tourism is recognized. A little while ago, it was said deep down, but in a serious discussion, the truth is that it has never been done so much in such a short period of time. If we pay additional measures to about 1, 2 million people, if we cover 140 000 companies at the level of the layoff, if we pay EUR 3586 million with the credit lines, if we double the value of payments in Portugal 2020, this is due to the work of people and institutions. Therefore, to come down with bureaucracy as much as was done, although we have room to improve, in three months, I think that, instead of having a word of criticism, we should also have a word of appreciation and greeting for many employees who worked in telework to bring money to people and businesses. Second key idea, Portugal is a secure destination, it is a reliable destination, our offer is secure and this has been a recognition to the country, to the SNS (National Health Service) and to the measures implemented and respected by the Portuguese under the COVID-19. Third and last key idea: this draft resolution aims to make a positive contribution to the support and relaunch of national tourism, but it has another virtue which, I think, is important: it has placed tourism on Parliament's political agenda. Despite the different perspectives, the truth is that we all recognize the strategic importance of tourism and what, with one exception or another, must be done, which is also part of the debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u48	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. We will move on to the second point, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 377 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Suspends Articles 16. o and 40. the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, in order to provide the Autonomous Regions with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the disease pandemic COVID-19, 378 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Referral to the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the payment of the charges arising from the PAEF loan, in order to provide the Region with all the financial means possible to deal with the effects of the COVID 19 disease pandemic, and 408 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures to support the economy of the Autonomous Regions by suspending the application of Articles 16. o and 40. the Law of the Finances of the Autonomous Regions. To present the PSD bills and to intervene in the debate, Mrs Sara Madruga of Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reason for being of the two projects that we present is simple, is because for more than three months the Socialist Government has ignored the requests for help and solidarity made by Madeira. Requests for help and solidarity that are urgent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u50	Where are they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u51	...made by a region that is an example of success in fighting the pandemic. Requests that they be of the utmost justice and reasonableness in the current context of the serious crisis we live in. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not asking for more money, but only two commitments that are absolutely necessary and essential to increase Madeira's response capacity to COVID-19. Tomorrow, we are told that Parliament approves them by a large majority, either the authorization for Madeira to borrow, or the authorisation for the moratorium on the next performance of the PAEF (Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ) which is due at the beginning of July. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the option of the Government, these two requests made by the Regional Government and the PSD have not been answered or implemented so far. And today, on the day that Parliament is discussing our proposals, the Government opts to respond with announcements in the newspapers, expressing a deep and tremendous lack of institutional respect with the governing bodies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the national Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u52	But, more important than that, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what the government now promises to do is not for Madeira. It does not serve Madeira because the region cannot wait any longer and needs immediate help to reach the families and companies of Madeira; it does not serve Madeira because we will receive less than it has been announced; it does not serve Madeira because we will be unable to use PAEF's amounts in immediate and urgent support to the population. So far, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was enormous the effort that Madeira has put forward to deal with this pandemic, a effort made to a large extent by the regional budget, and the region has already made more than 440 million euros available. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore urgently need the approval of these two initiatives tomorrow. We are no longer asking that it is not fair and that it has not already been — and well! — approved by Parliament in relation to local authorities, such as exceptional indebtedness and the granting of a moratorium. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at such an important and decisive moment as this one, we hope that most Members and Members will. Ladies and gentlemen are on our side and not against Madeira. Yesterday, the Madeirans learned that the Socialist Party is still against Madeira. At the time of the vote tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Madeirans will know who is with them and who will be against them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u53	Mr António Ventura also spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The suspension of the articles in question under the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions allows the Azores to turn to families, businesses, i.e. to deal with the negative consequences of COVID-19 in the region. However, this pandemic has increasingly provided evidence that, when a constitutional review takes place, there are amendments to the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores in various ways, but mainly in a way that enables more autonomy in the political decision on the protection of the health and safety of the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u55	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP and also to intervene in the debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a project to establish exceptional and temporary measures to support the economy of our autonomous regions, either the Autonomous Region of Madeira, or the Autonomous Region of the Azores. We represent this initiative with three fundamental principles: first, the principle of exceptionality. In response to COVID-19, and during these pandemic periods, the exception has become the rule and the CDS defends and accepts that the first exception must be given to citizens — they are the first concern — but then also to the state, and when we say state we mean either central State or local authorities. Also for the central State and also for local authorities there were exceptional financial rules and debt rules. It therefore makes sense for autonomous regions to apply the same exception criteria—and only during the exceptional period—which have already been applied both to the central state and to local authorities. It does not make sense for autonomous regions to maintain artificial normality when everything turns out to be exceptional. Secondly, our autonomous regions, both the Azores and Madeira, were particularly affected by the pandemic. I would like to recall, for example — and we have already been here today to discuss the tourism sector — the weight that the tourism sector has in Madeira and, perhaps, if we think that the whole tourism sector has been forced to stop, we understand the impact that COVID-19 had, for example, in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. Thirdly, I will say the following: much has been said about solidarity in Portugal and, when discussing Europe, we have talked a lot about the need for solidarity in Europe. from my point of view, on the European issue, I think that we are talking more about monetary policy and justice than exactly about solidarity, but that is another matter. Now, what we cannot cry out for international solidarity and then we do not want to have solidarity or even territorial cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u58	Therefore, the pandemic has impacts, yes, but they must be symmetrical in the national territory and the exception measures to combat them must be proportional, equal and just throughout the national territory, and that is why we present this bill. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u60	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u61	Mr President, this 'liberal minute' is devoted to autonomy with responsibility. in a recent World Bank report, it can be read that « the island territories have less strong institutions, have less diversified economies, are more exposed to natural disasters and the effects of climate change and have difficulties in accessing foreign capital. » For this sad description to draw even closer to the reality of Madeira and the Azores, it is sufficient to add that there is too much dependence on society and the economy, in general, on regional governments — a kind of regional statism. We are aware of the enormous difficulties that the pandemic is causing in the Madeirans and the Azorians and the economy, already fragile, is going through difficulties never seen. Tourism, already mentioned here, which has been very important for decades in Madeira and was in strong growth in the Azores, has resulted in the need to close the airports, almost as a whole, and other sectors suffer strongly with the breakdown of activity. We therefore believe that the vote in favour of the three proposals presented here is an obligation of safeguard and solidarity with the economies of Madeira and the Azores. And the fact that both measures have limited time and do not represent a kind of 'we do not pay' in relation to the commitments taken are also factors that determine our sense of vote. Is this a vote of confidence in the regional governments of the PSD / CDS in Madeira and PS in the Azores? Don't! But for the sake of the Maderians and the Azores we will apply here what John Rawls called "the veil of ignorance", i.e. looking at the context without connecting to those in power or opposition. Here we will be in the Assembly of the Republic to examine and demand rigour and transparency in the implementation of these measures. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u62	Good afternoon to all and to all. For an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u63	President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing a matter of greater importance to the people of the islands who, as in the whole country, have seen the economy contract as a result of the COVID and the containment measures. Thus, millions of Portuguese, many thousands of them in the autonomous regions, lost their jobs, had cuts in their incomes, their businesses, lost their livelihood. The Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira have suffered a brutal suspension of their economic fabric, based on tourism, agriculture, fisheries and other related services. Now, to mitigate the economic and social effects of the pandemic, exceptional measures are needed. The Azores and Madeira need to be able to use all the means available to support their economy and the revival of economic activity, because they have thousands of people in difficult situations. As long as the CFP is against the ties that compromise investment and development, especially because they translate into an invoice that is always paid by the people. It is a fundamental task of the State to promote the harmonious development of the entire national territory and to correct inequalities arising from insularity. Therefore, in 2007, in the Government of José Socrates, we considered that the Regional Finance Act was a total challenge to the financial autonomy of the autonomous regions. The Government has challenged the right to unilaterally fix the limits of indebtedness in the State Budget Act and to create mechanisms for government financial protection. Organic Law No. 1 / 2010 corrected some important questions and therefore we voted in favour, but then the PSD and CDS took a step back. Therefore, it is good to remember here that the mechanisms that today strangle the Azores and Madeira are a heavy inheritance of the PSD/CDS government. Having said that, today, we are discussing the possibility of the immediate suspension of articles of the Regional Finance Act on the budgetary balance which prevent these regions, in a situation of this urgency, from mobilising more funding even if they are subject to sanctions. We also discussed, in the specific case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a moratorium at the level of capital and interest on the payment of the loan of the Economic and Financial Adjustment Plan, to which the Region was subject in 2012. The CFP will follow these proposals, because all mobilisation of means is necessary to reach families and small and medium-sized enterprises, thus allowing to smooth the consequences of this whole situation of COVID. The Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Autonomous Region of Madeira need aid measures for this difficult phase, both at the level of these amendments which are proposed here today, as well as in European constraints and options that harm the basic sectors of their economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u64	The next intervention is the NAP. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No one has any doubt that one of the keys to combating the health crisis and its impact is in cooperation between the central State, the autonomous regions, the municipal chambers, non-governmental organizations and civil society—in fact, this cooperation has allowed the country no longer to suffer from the health crisis. Both local authorities and autonomous regions have acted effectively and often in their best efforts, at their limit, by performing real miracles, taking into account the financial resources they have at their disposal. The NAP has therefore since the first hour argued that it is necessary for the central State to strengthen the means necessary to deal with the crisis, both with regard to the authorities and with regard to autonomous regions. It seems to us, moreover, that it is essential that, in the context of the Reformary Budget, there is a significant strengthening of the financial resources of the autonomous regions and municipalities so that these entities, with their knowledge, can, with the proximity of the problems, give the necessary response to the fight against the crisis we have experienced. Without this strengthening, any additional measures will be ineffective in our view. Today, the PSD and the CDS bring to debate three bills, with different objectives, but containing complementary measures. On the one hand, the PSD proposes that the Autonomous Region of Madeira be given a moratorium on payments of the charges arising from the region's adjustment programme, which will immediately result in a budget strike of EUR 144 million. As a starting point, the idea seems good to us, but let us not forget that this measure, to be approved, has a question of discrimination in relation to the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which has a debt of less than 60 % of GDP compared to Madeira's debt. However, we can follow this initiative if there is a supplementary measure which also compensates the Autonomous Region of the Azores. For example, it would be possible to make a non-interest loan to Madeira in the order of the EUR 144 million repayable from 2022, which we believe would ensure some justice and balance without discriminating the Azores. If the PSD is open to this compensation for the Azores, they may rely on the support of the NAP, in a comprehensive final vote. On the other hand, the PSD and the CDS propose that, until December 2021, budgetary balance rules and regional debt limits be no longer applied to the regions of Madeira and the Azores. The NAP will follow the CDS-PP proposal, generally, but at the moment we cannot have the same position as the PSD proposal, since it does not impose a limit on regional debt exceeding the expenditure related to COVID-19. The NAP has always defended the municipalities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u66	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u67	I shall conclude, Mr President. The NAP has always defended this possibility for the municipalities, however the government has given an answer and, therefore, for us, it is essential that these answers be found in the context of a corrective budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u68	The next intervention is the Socialist Party. Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are all aware of the scale of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and also of the size of the effort that will be needed to recover from this crisis, which is nationally, regionally and at European level. During the pandemic, we watched the Government of the Republic, the governments of the autonomous regions and the local authorities launch all the resources they had to respond immediately to their immediate needs. We're on a different plane now. We are in a plan to prepare and implement the recovery of the effects and consequences of this crisis. The European Council had already indicated, in its recommendation on Portugal's National Reform Programme, that, as has been mentioned a lot in the asymmetry of the consequences of this crisis at European level, also in Portugal, the consequences would not be symmetrical at regional level, highlighting for reasons relating to the impact of tourism on economic activity, the regions of Algarve, Madeira and the Azores. In the case of autonomous regions, it will not be difficult to see how much more effort is needed, if we take into account its architectural nature and its ultraperipheral nature, recognised, for example, this week by Commissioner Elisa Ferreira when he was heard in the Committee on European Affairs here in the Assembly of the Republic, and the need for specific measures for the region. But, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, the Prime Minister was here yesterday and it was yesterday that, in this House and not in newspapers, he mentioned, and assumed, the importance...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u70	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u71	... fundamental of the autonomous regions count on the resources they needed... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that the Government of the Republic would be available for that, as it has indeed been. So, I don't know if I was distracted yesterday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u72	I wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u73	...but, indeed, it was not what the honourable Member said happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u75	That is to say, we all agree on the need for exceptional measures to deal with an exceptional situation. Let's share the goal. What we don't communicate is the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u76	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u77	...and, in addition to alerting to the Technical Note, which draws attention, and well, to the violation of the labour law, which is beyond passable in the field of specialty, but which, in practice... [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] Madam Member, listen: in practice, your proposals would enter into force on 1 January 2021...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u78	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u79	I conclude now, Mr President. As I was saying, in practice your proposals would enter into force on 1 January 2021. What does that mean next week when we know that the Budget of the Supplementary State will enter this House and when we had the Prime Minister's commitment yesterday? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u80	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira have different needs, but, like the rest of the country, they face the consequences of the pandemic and the forced closure of the economy. In this case, the fact that they are outermost regions and regions, especially in the case of Madeira, very dependent on tourism and, also in the case of Madeira, with added financial conditionalities, imposed by an adjustment plan which has, moreover, been negotiated, imposed by a Government of the PSD and the CDS — we well remember! It therefore seems reasonable to us that there are rules of exception, as there are for the authorities and, indeed, for all people at their different levels of financial responsibilities, applicable to autonomous regions. It makes no sense to continue demanding the payment of the adjustment programme when there are moratoriums on the remaining debts in society and in the economy. It makes no sense to continue imposing an indebtedness limit that not only has the original sin of conditioning the investment in the Autonomous Region — but in this regard the PSD will have its reasons and its past — as prevents the investments needed to cope with the pandemic. We therefore believe that the measures are positive, fair, equipped the autonomous regions with the rest of the country and have a technical issue which can be seen in the field of specialty, which is the question of labour law. However, the labour law has never prevented any initiative from being discussed, voted and approved in the Assembly of the Republic and it does not seem to me that it will now. It is a matter that will have to be reviewed in the specialty. In conclusion, I just want to say that we will vote in favour of these initiatives, because they are fair and not because the President of the Regional Government has decided to make a beer, blackmailing the Assembly of the Republic and blackmailing the people of Madeira, as, moreover, it is common to do, using the people of Madeira as a weapon of shooting for other types of political barges.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u82	What a fool! I was doing well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u83	I therefore want to make it clear that we vote in favour because it is fair and not because we give in to the beer of the President of the Regional Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u84	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u85	Mr President, the Left Block does not miss an opportunity... as it has disappeared from the Madeira Parliament, this situation has been marked and the polls have not been successful either. But we're not going to talk about it this week, we'll have time to talk about polls ahead. For those who said that the arrival would actually disappear, we are far from that and apparently we are already ahead of you. It's the facts. But it's always funny that the Left Block comes to this House to talk to blame... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Calm down, Mrs. Member, it's still 5 %! Calmly, it still reaches 5 %! The Left Block came to blame the PSD and the CDS, but by the State budget for 2020 the Madeira Government will receive less EUR 45 million than in the previous year. You will receive less money from the Social Security Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Who approved this State budget? The Left Block and the Communist Party. Now the Left Block comes to say the blame is on the right. It is only necessary to say that it is the fault of the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative that did not exist at that time. I just needed to say that! In any case, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, I don't want to have any obsession with you especially, but I know that sometimes it seems! But I have to tell you... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, you are very restless today. Is it because of the polls? There's more polls next week, don't worry. [[Rises and protests of the Member of BE Mariana Mortágua.]] Look, they're not gonna be good polls for the Block! You see more polls for the week, Mrs. Member, don't exaggerate in the comments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u86	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time. I would like to thank you for finishing your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u87	Mr President, Mrs. Member of the Left Block won't let me speak. I shall finish by telling Mrs Isabel Rodrigues that the fact that the Prime Minister has come to say that he will safeguard the question of the Autonomous Region of Azores is worth the same as saying that he would safeguard the debts of the entrepreneurs, because they continue to increase to 350 %. It's the same thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u88	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that the essential thing has already been said, but I would like to make it clear and express that the labour law is the norm which basically says that parliaments cannot approve more expenditure than the ceilings entered in the Budget. And I wanted to tell you, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, that the CDS respects the law-work. However, it is appropriate for this Parliament and the PS also to respect... [[PS protests.]] ...that the labour law has not been created so that governments, especially those who do not even have the support of the majority of Parliament, can do what they understand. When there are expenditure ceilings and we want to rape them and spend more, as we are in the pandemic, the government decides that it is exceptional, it proposes to the House and there is no problem; but in those things where the government no longer wants to have that will, then it says that it cannot be done because of the law-work. [[PS protests.]] The Government has only now decided to present a budgetary review law. [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] I could have done it right away, as was done in France, and we would no longer be discussing this. With this correction and with this budgetary review law we would have discussed this, but the government did not think so. For what? In order to be able to make unscrutinised choices in this Parliament, but in this the CDS will not go, Mrs Deputy, because the power to determine expenditure ceilings is Parliament, and the power to determine taxes to pay them is also Parliament. If the PS wants to abdicate from that power does much harm, but as far as the CDS is concerned, that power is not from the government, it is from this Parliament, and we will not abandon it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u90	To close the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which was the party which addressed this matter, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In three months, this socialist government never had time to respond to any of the regional government's offices, but today, strangely, the day we discussed the PSD proposals, it had time to make announcements in newspapers. It's nothing that scares us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the Socialist Government continues with the same obsession, with the same strategy as always, to govern politically, to act with two weights and two measures and to do everything to harm Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we've seen this film in the last four years. It's called a new Madeira hospital, even the hospital we don't have yet. The Government and the Socialist Party continue with the same false, misleading announcements and using the same dilatory records to try to strangle Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the screenplay of this film is the same, the actors are the same, the conversation is the same, but now with more serious and absolutely devastating consequences for Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you ask that the population of Madeira remain, until September, without any help? [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] How can the region be forced to pay EUR 48 million at the beginning of July, of which EUR 18 million interest, without the region having so far had any help?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u93	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the Government and the Socialist Party want to do to Madeira, a region where tourism has a significant weight, is a deep and tremendous injustice. On the day when despair and suffering hit the door of the Madeirans, on the day when unemployment and hunger return to Madeira, all this will have a name: Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this debate. The third item of the agenda consists of the assessment of Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, which amends the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020, [ Parliamentary assessments No 12 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 13 / XIV / 1 a ( PCP ) and 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On May 5, the Government decided to exclude people with diabetes or with hypertension from the exceptional protection regime that had been created to safeguard the health of those who are most vulnerable to the new coronavirus. He had no reason for this exclusion, and he could not even justify it when questioned, he simply decided that from that moment on people with diabetes and hypertension no longer had special protection rights. It is a strange decision, because during the emergency state these people were subject to a special duty of protection. After all, what counts for duties should not also count for rights? It is a wrong decision, because scientific evidence shows that people with diabetes or hypertension are at greater risk of developing more severe forms of COVID-19. In addition, several European States apply special protection schemes to these situations. Is Portugal an exception to scientific evidence? It's hard to believe. It is a decision which the Government itself cannot justify. The Left Block has already questioned the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health about what led to this exclusion. We asked which opinions, data, guidelines were based on the government to make such a decision, but they did not say so for a simple reason: because there was no such thing. It was just said that there was no intention of excluding. But then, if there was no such intention, the solution was very simple: do not withdraw from the regime who originally existed there and who should stay there. But the fact is that with this decision, the government excluded the diabetics and hypertensives from this special protection regime and passed the public message of this exclusion. This is already having consequences in reality, with doctors who do not testify to the need for special protection, employers who do not respect this special right of these workers and for that reason, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution now is to re-include. That is exactly what the Left Block wants with this parliamentary assessment, that is to say, to place in the exceptional protection regime who should never have been removed from it. As simple and as fair as this. Some will say that this may include many workers, but we say that at the top of the priorities should be the health of the general population and that of the most vulnerable in particular. The obligation of the State is to protect these persons, not to subordinate health to the economic interests of their employers. They will say the same, perhaps, that it must be a doctor to witness the clinical situation and consequent vulnerability, to which we respond: "Unquestionably, indeed, as in the case of other diseases". What happened was that, by removing these people from the special protection regime, what was said was that, regardless of their clinical situation, they do not have a special protection right, and that is unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as has been shown in this speech, there is no justification for the exclusion that the Government has made and there is no reason why a special right of protection should not be conferred on patients with diabetes and hypertension. The Assembly of the Republic must therefore immediately reverse a very bad political option that has been taken by the Government. It can and should do so with this initiative of the Left Block, it can and should give priority to the protection of health, especially the health of the most vulnerable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u96	You have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings to plenary the assessment of Decree-Law No 20/ 2020 because it believes that it is of the greatest and most elementary justice that this withdrawal from the exceptional protection regime, which the Government has made, of people with high blood pressure and diabetes is corrected. In fact, we all understand the protection measures and the fight against the consequences, in terms of public health, and we realize that the SNS has been the large port of shelter of the population and the country, with particular emphasis on hospital health care, but also for primary health care and, more specifically, for public health, whose intervention, in terms of surveillance, monitoring and supervision of contamination chains, has managed to contain this epidemic in a more secure and appropriate way. Therefore, the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) has issued guidelines for the prevention and containment of the disease, continuing to indicate and to consider that hypertension and diabetes are factors that make patients more vulnerable and that, in the presence of the infection with COVID-19, they also create a less favorable prognosis for these people. Thus, the PCP understands that it should be analyzed with criteria what happens in the framework of these two diseases. On the one hand, hypertension and diabetes are chronic diseases with high prevalence in Portugal — 25% in the case of the first and at least 13% in the case of the second — but we have to look at cumulative factors, that is, we have to look at patients with diabetes and high blood pressure and understand who they are. In Portugal, 70% of these patients are over 60 years of age, which is another cumulative factor. these diseases also accumulate complications, particularly from the cardiovascular or cerebrovascular forum, which create conditions of vulnerability to the disease infection, and this is another cumulative factor. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also look at the fact that the programmed activity of these patients has been suspended. The suspension of scheduled activity and consultations in primary health care created conditions for the lack of follow-up of these patients. There are, therefore, conditions for them to be more decompensated in terms of their tension values and blood glucose. This is therefore another cumulative factor for these people to be entitled to a special protection regime. The Government, in the first instance, understood and assumed this and presented this recognition in Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May. However, this exceptionality was subsequently withdrawn from the Corrigendum Declaration No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May. The CFP believes that it is of the most fundamental justice that this exceptionality is restored. But we also want to make it clear here that there are conditions for this situation to be solved, and the CFP is available to solve it. However, it is also necessary to consider the need for these people, who are at home, to have income. Therefore, the CFP wants to be considered as the subsidy entitlement corresponding to 100 % of the reference remuneration. That's why, sirs. Members, we believe it is of the most fundamental justice that can be recognised to patients with diabetes and with high blood pressure the right to an exceptional regime with regard to the risk and the probability of contracting the COVID-19. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u98	To present the PSD initiative, Mr. Alberto Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This request for parliamentary review of the PSD arises following the publication of Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 on May 1, which establishes an exceptional regime for the protection of immunodepressants and chronic patients against the disease pandemic COVID-19. in this diploma it is expected that diabetic and hypertensive patients, among others, may, when considered at risk and the use of telework is not possible, justify their lack of work by medical declaration. This is a prudent legal regime, because it applies only to patients at risk. And it is a strict legal regime, insofar as it conditions the justification for the failure to submit the proper medical statement. It turns out that, days after the publication of that diploma, the Government published the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020, which no longer includes diabetes and hypertension as diseases benefiting the exceptional protection regime. The Government has changed the content and meaning of a decree-law by means of a rectification, knowing that the corrections are only admissible for correction of grammatical, orthographic, calculus or analogous lapses. Now, if the government wanted to remove diabetics and hypertensives from the special protection regime, it had only one solution, which was to pass a new decree. This is the case in a democratic rule of law! But it is also important not to forget the seriousness of the institutional behaviour of the Government, since by changing the content and meaning of a decree-law by means of a simple declaration of rectification, the Executive violated the powers of the President of the Republic, in particular with regard to political control of governmental legislative acts. It is an attitude towards the Head of State, which, for the PSD, is absolutely unacceptable! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What I am saying is serious, but there is even worse! It is that the exclusion of diabetics and hypertensives from this exceptional protection regime objectively protects hundreds of thousands of patients, ignoring their increased risk to COVID-19 disease, as well as their increased vulnerability to the development of serious complications in the event of infection by that disease. Therefore, let us remind the government that people with chronic diseases are one of the most vulnerable groups to the development of serious complications with COVID-19 infection, as is, I repeat, the case of people with diabetes and hypertension. And the government cannot also ignore that, despite these patients being able to have the disease controlled, this does not mean that they cannot be compensated, especially if they are infected. Thus, in the view of the Social Democratic Party, it should be the assistant doctors to assess chronic patients and to verify their individual working conditions, that is the context for the correct decision of protection. Therefore, we do not accept this unjustifiable decision by the Government to remove diabetes and hypertension from the list of diseases benefiting from the exceptional protection regime under COVID-19 and much less deal with the covert form that the Government has chosen to carry out this legislative amendment, which fits well in the popular expression 'by the horse door'... We therefore propose that the Government comply with exactly what it has committed to in Decree-Law No 20 / 2020, expressly providing for the possibility of justification of defects by diabetic and hypertensive patients who are considered to be at risk and cannot use telework. For PSD, diabetic and hypertensive patients have no fewer rights than the other chronic patients! Above all, these patients do not deserve the government to play with their expectations, recognizing them on a day that denies them three days later! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u100	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Secretary of State for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the state of emergency, the Government has sought to ensure that the immunodepressed and chronically ill people have a special duty of protection, like citizens over 70 years of age. With the transition to the disaster situation, the Government incorporated into Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March a standard to ensure an exceptional regime for the protection of immunodepressants and chronic patients, allowing them, by medical declaration, to justify the lack of work, provided they could not carry out their activity on a telework basis or through other forms of activity. Once again, the government has sought to guard and protect those who are more seriously ill when infected by SARS-CoV-2. It should be clarified that the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 does not exclude diabetics and hypertensives from this forecast. The list of chronic diseases referred to in Article 25 ( 1 ). it is merely exemplifying, so this rule allows to cover other disease situations that the assistant physician understands deserve special protection. In fact, we are faced with a legal and formal solution which does not bring about a substantial change in the legal framework of the legal standard. And the norm clearly states that immunodepressants and chronic patients who must be considered vulnerable may justify the absence of work by medical declaration, in compliance with the requirements already mentioned. Thus, this standard covers people with cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, oncological disease, renal failure, as well as those with other chronic diseases, in respect of which the assistant physician attests to the justification for their special protection, fulfilled the assumptions mentioned above. Let me therefore stress the important role of the assistant physician in this integrated approach, depending on its assessment of the possibility of justification of absence to work where the use of telework and other forms of work is not admissible. It is the medical assistant who is responsible for issuing the medical statement, attesting the need to protect the chronic or immunodepressed patient. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: and to conclude, be people with cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, oncological disease or kidney failure, or even people with other chronic diseases, including, obviously, hypertension and diabetes, and other diseases, including autoimmune and transplanted diseases, for example, the guarantee we can give these people is that, before the medical assessment that they are at risk, there is no doubt that they will be covered by the exceptional regime of protection of immunodepressants and chronic patients, as provided for in Article 25. the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u102	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May, whose assessment we requested. And it was very interesting to hear Mr. Secretary of State, who apparently clarified it, after all, did not clarify. But let's go to the facts. There was a government decree stating, in its drafting, an exceptional regime for a number of people with chronic and immunodepressed diseases, of which diabetics and hypertensive patients were included. This was written in that diploma, but when the state of emergency was finished it was withdrawn. And the question to ask is, why? Why was he withdrawn? If it had never been written, we weren't having this conversation. But the government wrote that there and then withdrew. You will agree with me, Mr. Secretary of State, who is not there now. We're seeing the same thing, aren't we? So the question is the following: why did the government withdraw it and what did it support to do so? But finally, as the Government has always supported its work on the scientific basis, I even admit that there could be some scientific basis for this withdrawal. And that is exactly what we even asked the government, but unfortunately, unlike today, it did not have a chance to answer us. We were then searching the DGS website. They always tell us it's on the DGS website that we have to go looking for scientific information, and I went. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, I would advise you from time to time to go to the DGS website and update you to at least be consistent with what is in the law, because nothing hits anything. It is that, when you are going to see the DGS website which groups are considered to be at risk for COVID-19, there is, for example, arterial hypertension, but there is not diabetes—there is, it is true, the expression 'among others', which is a fairly clear, concise and rigorous legal concept... Discretionality is a lot, information does not match and is a bad principle of information and a bad principle of legislation. However, Mr Secretary of State had already tried to put forward an explanation at a press conference, saying that hypertensive and diabetic patients are 'essentially compensated' — their words were — but if, for any reason, they were to decompensate, that situation would certainly be covered by the 'hat' of chronic diseases. Mr. Secretary of State, it may be covered by the « hat», until it may be covered by its intention, it was surely covered by the initial version of the law, but now it is not. And you know who took it? You were Mr. Secretary of State. So there's something here that doesn't make much sense. Therefore, in the absence of a valid scientific reason demonstrating that hypertensive and diabetic patients do not constitute a risk group, and in the absence of divinatory gifts for whom the law is applying, which you do not have to know what the unwritten intent of Mr. Secretary of State is, the CDS understands that it should return to the initial formulation and that, for these chronic patients, as for all others, a medical statement should be issued which proves that they may have the wrongs justified if they cannot resort to the telework regime, and not only for them as for all others who are described in the law and which are described in the original law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u104	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. Consequently, we will present a proposal for an amendment to this decree, which, after listening to Mr. Secretary of State, I am sure will be approved by the PS because, after all, it should already be there. So everything will be fine. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u106	The next intervention was Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, within the framework of the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, the NAP uses to bring up the debate four themes: one on health; another on transport; another on waste management; and finally another on consumer rights. With regard to health, and after Mr State Secretary's statements, we fail to see whether there is, in fact, the admission of a period of time, whether there is denial of a problem, or whether it is assumed that this problem will be solved. The interpretation we make is also that, on the option of the Government, diabetic and hypertensive persons who cannot carry out their work remotely due to function characteristics have ceased to be able to justify the lack of work by medical declaration, when, according to the Directorate-General for Health itself, these diseases are perfectly integrated in those who are risk groups for CVID-19. We all know that, compared to the general population, people with type 1 diabetes have three and a half times more risk of death after virus infection and that type 2 people have twice the risk. In fact, scientific evidence points even to an increase in people with diabetes during the initial period of this outbreak, which is particularly associated with more vulnerable communities, where the risks of disease decompensation are greater. In the case of hypertension, the option taken by the government, unless it is said here that this will be effectively resolved, does not take into account the individual difference or associated comorbidities either. From what we know, collective immunity is still very low at this time and, from these people to risk groups, we want to take advantage of this debate to understand what has happened, in this matter, to withdraw these groups of people. For us, it is clear that these cases should be examined by the assistant doctors and that this possibility should be guaranteed. With regard to transport, we would just like to reinforce, in this decree, those which are precisely the recommendations of the Directorate-General for Health. It is essential to continue to create conditions for people to have confidence in public transport and to make recommendations in this decree, in particular the marking of places and the strengthening of public transport, so that people do not stop looking for them because of lack of supply, as well as the strengthening of disinfection equipment at their entry. With regard to waste management in this Decree-Law, the exemption from licensing of the increased storage capacity of urban and hospital waste management operators as provided for in Article 35. o-B, seems to allow a perpetual license. The NAP understands that this should be resolved in the name of protection of the environment and public health and that this dispensation should be confined to the period of calamity. Finally, in relation to the complaint book,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u108	Madam Member, it is forever that you cannot even continue to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u109	It's only 10 seconds, Mr. President. As I was saying in relation to the complaint book, it should be noted that, in the phase of defination at which we are found, it must of course be put back and should not continue suspended, as is provided for in the decree-law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u110	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Within this parliamentary assessment, I begin my speech with the statements made by Mr. President of the Association for the Protection of Diabetics of Portugal ( APDP ), José Manuel Boavida, at the press conference of the Ministry of Health on April 1 : "Despite diabetics being a risk group, there is no evidence that people with diabetes are more likely to be infected. (...) In addition, if the disease is well compensated the risk is equal to that of the rest of the population», Mr President of the APDP stressed. I would like to address here, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a greeting to Mr President for his work in the direction of the Association, as well as to leave a word of encouragement and appreciation to all diabetics, hypertensives and chronic patients in our country for their resilience and their fight against the disease.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u113	As regards the rectification declaration, it should be pointed out that the rule under consideration is merely exemplary in that it refers to immunodepressants and chronic disease patients, who, according to the health authorities, should be identified as at risk, particularly hypertensive and diabetic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these risk groups are protected under the chronic diseases hat, depending, of course, on the clinical evaluation of their assistant physician or health authorities, and the risk of exposure and the clinical situation of the person should be assessed. If you're in a position to go to work, I'm sure that's what most of these patients want to do. They want to work, they want to produce wealth for the country, they want to leave their own home.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u114	That's not what's in question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u115	Therefore, the doctor will evaluate their conditions in conjunction with them. If the conditions are conjugated, it will be-CL to provide them with the medical statement to justify their absences at work, except for those who do not need, who can perform their activity in telework or other ways. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the rectification declaration does not exclude these groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u116	Excluding, excluding!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u117	The government's attitude has been guided by clinical and health criteria and not by economic criteria, as well as it has been well noted and continues to note the measures adopted during the pandemic. It is never too much to remember the remarkable work that the Government is developing in a pandemic context, but I also want, in a very particular way, to greet the Ministry of Health and to take advantage of the presence of Mr. Secretary of State of Health to, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, point out the inexhaustible and assertive work that has brought forward. Our country has been referred to as an example below. We must be proud! I'm proud and we should all have it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u118	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have heard from the speeches of the Secretary of State and Mrs Joana Lima, that we have all misunderstood the legal diploma: that, in fact, there has been a mere rectification and that we should learn better how to read these matters... It is that if these diseases were mentioned before — hypertension and diabetes — and now they do not appear to think that it is because they have been withdrawn, it is to make an effort to interpret and we all come to a legal consensus on the matter. It is a kind of telescope, but with the right to mix, with which the Socialist Party wants to present the Portuguese citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u120	Don't play with serious things, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u121	It happens that the matter is too serious. Unfortunately, about 10 % of coronovirus infections are diabetic. In countries like the United Kingdom, one third of deaths were diabetic people. We shouldn't play with this. So what was done in the law—and I don't know if it was the Secretary of State who did it or who did it—it was wrong. Even though, legally, it can be justified, it gave a bad sign to the population, and it gave such a bad sign that all parties are here today asking that this be reversed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u122	Mr. André Ventura, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u123	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm about to finish. But I also wanted to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this was done behind the head of state, and it should not be, because it was using the 'horse door' to change a legal diploma. And so I was very surprised because, at the time we were here discussing and talking to Mr. Moses Ferreira, the President of the Republic had just said that there was nothing to point out to the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u124	Always on campaign! Don't miss an opportunity to talk about the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u125	It's so sad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u126	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u127	It is a very sad rally in this matter, which leaves us all very sad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u128	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Health, Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a cross-sectional way, I will make a new approach to this matter, trying to reinforce what I have just said. The legislation approved had, and has, an unequivocal purpose of protection of immunodepressed patients and chronic patients with regard to COVID-19. The elimination of the explicit reference to hypertensive and diabetic patients in the new wording did not, nor did it intend to exclude these situations from the scope of application of the exceptional protection regime. The application of this scheme depends, firstly, on the health authorities and then on the medical statement attesting to the health condition and justifying the lack of work. Moreover, the new wording allows for greater flexibility of the assistant physician, which is still in progress when knowledge on a disease still very unknown or the risks associated with certain health conditions, and this assessment should be done on a case-by-case basis and therefore in a case-by-case manner. Finally, I wanted to say that, with the current wording,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u130	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u131	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, with the current wording, the assistant physician, depending on the clinical situation, has the possibility to manage the diseases and their conditions which should be considered as risk. Hypertension and diabetes are chronic diseases and this condition is not challenged by the new wording. The patients with these diseases are chronic and, as such, covered by the exceptional regime, provided that they are duly evaluated and signaled by their assistant physician. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u132	To conclude this debate, you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was clear here that the amendment that the Government has made is unjustifiable. To withdraw and say that you are not excluding, that you are probably still including more, although you have excluded after a rectification, in fact, you have no justification. So I think it is clear that it is really necessary to change the decree-law. The Government does not want to change it and therefore the Assembly of the Republic will certainly make that amendment. Finally, I wanted to point out that it is different to say that people with diabetes are not particularly likely to contract the disease and to say that if they contract the disease, they have a much greater risk than people without diabetes. That's what we're discussing here, we're not discussing whether the virus is selective, but the severity of the disease that the person is going to develop. And, indeed, there is scientific consensus about the fact that people with diabetes develop the disease much more seriously. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u134	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the third item on our agenda. We say good-bye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government, who now leave their seat. We move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates support for the income of individual micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 348 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19, 349 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to micro-enterprises and individual-named entrepreneurs for access to response measures to the COVID-19 epidemic, 350 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs fiscal measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, 351 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual entrepreneurs to public support created in response to the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19, 366 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the system of support for the resumption and dynamization of the activity of dealers and companies of roaming diversity, in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 416 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Determines the ineligibility of payments on account and special payments within IRC and IRS in 2020, 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the possibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, 418 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs special support measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, 421 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — All IRC PPC companies are exempt and enables the refund of the PEC that has not been deducted, 431 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support fun and catering travelling companies and 432 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a special incentive scheme for the activity developed by fairs and markets. To present the initiatives of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has promoted the scheduling of this debate with these bills so that this House can give concrete, legislative responses to the pressing problems of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (PMMEs). The impact of the epidemic crisis of COVID-19 has been brutally economic and social throughout these months. Tens of thousands of companies have suspended their activity, in cases in the face of their own measures to prevent and combat, in others by breaking orders, by falling supplies of intermediate goods and services, or by the absence of domestic or external demand. In the meantime, the support approved by the Government to respond to this situation has passed and continues to move alongside the vast majority of this economic fabric. Many millions of public money, social security funds, credit available and, after all, what appears to small and micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs are restrictions, bureaucracy, blockades, exclusion factors and impediments to access to support and financing. On the other hand, in terms of access to credit, we are faced with a real scandal, with the banks really taking advantage of this pandemic crisis and the public money mobilised. Money reaches banks and from there it doesn't go to small and micro-enterprises! Mrs. Members, it is urgent and essential to ensure that the resources actually reach the ground that those who have lost income are not left out, that access to support is not conditional on absurd discrimination. Whoever has simplified regime is not outside the law! Who is an individual businessman is not in tax havens! Who opened the doors in January does not cease to have accounts to pay! Whoever has been late with a bank payment for years is not an outlaw! It is of the most fundamental justice that effective access to these support is promoted, which ends with these exclusions, approving the PCP proposals either in support of the income of micro and small entrepreneurs and individual entrepreneurs, either in the network of contact and support for micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to ensure that they are accessible. We also propose tax measures to support MPMEs and cooperatives by suspending the payment on behalf of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) and anticipating the return by the State to taxpayers of special unpaid payments and VAT ( value added tax ) refunds on IRC and IRS ( income tax on natural persons ). And here, unlike the CDS, we do not offer nor will we allow « tickets» or tax bills to benefit large companies at the level of this discussion. We propose that it be possible to suspend energy and telecommunications contracts by the MPME that had to close the door in this epidemic crisis. Contracts shall be temporarily terminated and resumed as soon as possible with the extension of the corresponding deadline where appropriate but without penalties or contractual losses to users, avoiding situations of non-compliance or accumulation of debts in energy invoices or electronic communications. Finally, we propose measures to support and resume the activities of the merchants and the businessmen of roaming diversity, not forgetting the decisions taken in this House over the years for these sectors, approving and recommending measures which, in almost nothing, have been implemented by successive governments. What is needed is to move from words to acts, recognize the specificity of the sectors of activity and create conditions for this activity not to be lost, without future or hope, but that it can be resumed, gradually and controlled, with guarantees of safety and public health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives of the CFP that we bring to the debate are constructive proposals — which we present, listening to the MPMEs and their structures — and a contribution to a concrete and immediate response to the problems that arise, but they are also a demonstration that confirms that it is possible to take other options which even serve small businesses and not those of custom. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u136	You now have the floor to present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are considering a number of legislative initiatives, one of which is one of the CDS, which I will now introduce. I would, however, like to highlight one of the concerns in question. These are legislative initiatives on support for businesses, but there is one sector which, for us, is also worrying and has to do with tourism companies. We are talking about a sector that consists of more than 800 micro-enterprises, largely composed of the family aggregate itself. If concrete measures are not adopted, many of these companies will not be able to survive, especially if they have a seasonal activity, which means that it is a sector that has been virtually paralyzed since October last year. The CDS has a draft resolution which is under consideration in this Parliament which recommends concrete measures to support this sector. The CDS presents a draft law aimed at eliminating the accountability of payments on account and special payments on behalf of IRS and IRC in 2020. There are two reasons that lead us to present this bill. On the one hand, it is about protecting the employment and income of families and businesses, thus relieving their tax obligations. These same tax obligations correspond to payments due on account of income taxes received during the year 2020, i.e. income which is difficult for both families and businesses will have. This is an advance that is made to the State and that the CDS, through this bill, wants to eliminate by 2020, as a way to alleviate not only the treasury of companies, but also the income of families themselves. We experience exceptional circumstances that also require exceptional responses from the State. The CDS has sought, throughout this period, to add more than to divide, and has done so in an absolutely constructive way, to save jobs and to prevent the escalation of thousands of companies that can become insolvent. Is the question to be asked: does this advance of taxes to the State make sense or not? This advance of taxes does not make sense because of the reasons I have already invoked, but also because of this time when companies have difficulty accessing credit, a time when layoff has not worked for everyone, when the government's own programmes have fallen short in terms of funding and with a huge bureaucracy so that companies and families can access them. Therefore, the CDS presents this proposal in a constructive spirit and a logic in which, on the one hand, families can have more income and in which companies, on the other hand, can have a relief of treasury. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u138	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epidemic caused by the new coronavirus has put several challenges to the business fabric, especially to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, who are now fighting for their survival in significant numbers, either because they have been legally prevented from continuing their activity, or because they face a reduction in the level of demand for goods and services. In common, they have a pressing threat to their continuity. We also know that these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are at the heart of the Portuguese economy and now need all the support that the State can provide. It is true that a number of support has already been approved, but few face the real needs of these companies, because they have either not reached all that they need, or arrive at, but in manifestly insufficient value. in other cases, among the whole process of trying not to close the doors definitely, of thinking about new ways of catching customers and meeting the obligations, companies have difficulty realizing that support effectively exists and are ultimately eligible for them, as well as ways to go after the health crisis. There is a widespread lack of technical expertise in the economic and financial and computer fields in many of these companies. there arise other increased difficulties related to the dispersion and the complexity of the information. How can they make informed decisions if the essential data are not available at the same location and are often arranged almost encrypted, not accessible to a more immediate understanding? Will it not be the function of those who provide the information make it as accessible as possible in all directions? It is therefore important to create with IAPMEI the availability of the necessary information, clearly, so that entrepreneurs can become aware of the various tools they have at their disposal and choose the best option for their business. We also propose the creation of an economic and financial consultancy service which sets out ways for a better recovery of the crisis, which is able to point out more sustainable solutions and practices, including the promotion of the circular economy, so that our business fabric is finally equipped with tools to enable it to change in the way we produce and consume. This is a change as much spoken of as necessary and now, following this crisis, it can have a real opportunity for implementation. In addition to what has already been stated, we believe that we can go further in support of these companies. Thus, in this context, where there is a clear need for flexibility in fixed costs, in particular those related to electricity and communications, the NAP argues that it is possible to suspend, during this economic crisis, contracts for the provision of these services without contractual penalties. It seems to us essential to give some effort to undertakings in respect of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the provision of services which they have not enjoyed or that they do not currently need to enjoy, either because of the state of emergency or disaster, that they have been unable to have the doors open, or because they do not yet meet the conditions necessary to return to the asset. And in addition, very briefly those who have used the Moratorium of rents see-CL- will be confronted with the obligation to pay the income agreed with the additional cost of carrying out this measure. In short, there are no easy days for our companies and therefore for workers and for our economy. But we can take advantage of the time to start implementing real changes to our production system, creating effective bases for a greener economy. It is the duty of this House to debate and reach consensus on the most agile and efficient responses that must be given to the business sector, so that it can resist, avoid insolvency and ensure jobs, but without forgetting that, if we continue the form of production and consumption that has brought us here, this pandemic can only be the beginning of something more ruinous. The NAP has contributed and will continue to contribute to this debate, warning that this is a moment of change and learning. Let the path of our companies be viable not only from an economic point of view, but also from sustainability, which at present we can have work, but without jeopardising that our young people can have a future!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u140	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I speak in this debate with a mixture of feelings. On the one hand, I would like to welcome the concern of the Portuguese Communist Party with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and with the living and working conditions of thousands of workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u142	Don't bother!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u143	...and, as we have come to warn, with the thousands of situations in which workers and entrepreneurs are the same person. But at the same time, I must regret that the CFP opts not to give the same conditions to so many thousands of other workers just because they work for larger companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u144	Don't look at me! Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u145	The concept of equality for the CFP is thus very clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u146	This is all the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u147	For the PCP, if a Portuguese man works for a company with five workers, he is a son; if he works for a company with 5000 workers, he is an entee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u148	What a bad story!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u149	For the PCP, larger companies always swim in cash and never have difficulties. This says a lot about the knowledge of reality by the communists. Jobs and economic viability, called into question by restrictions on economic activity decreed by the government, do not depend on the size of companies. That is why today's proposal does not discriminate between SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and large companies, because they all have their role in the recovery of the economy and because we defend all workers equally, without prejudice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u150	All bosses!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u151	We also seek to mitigate the cruelty inherent to the special payment on account, a tax — one more — which does not consider the economic dynamics of companies — once again regardless of its size —, a cruelty that has been increased by this pandemic crisis. Therefore, more than a proposal to combat the crisis, it is a proposal to establish justice and simplification. It is a proposal that aims to decomplicate the lives of people and businesses, regardless of their size. It is another proposal of the Liberal Initiative to decomplicate Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u152	To speak the next speech, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Block of Left has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have discussed today a number of proposals that aim to add alternatives to the debate we have had in this House over the past few months on support for the economy at a time of great crisis. We know that there are still sectors of activity outside of any support, without the prospect of reopening and without the prospect of relaunching your activity sector. On proposals addressed to micro-enterprises or individual enterprises, we stress that we have been putting forward proposals since very early. In addition, last week a number of proposals were rejected again, which would be important, in particular as regards direct support or relief of fixed costs, such as essential or safe goods. In spite of this, there has been progress in the support scheme for management partners for these micro-enterprises as well, but much is still ahead of this plan. on a more specific plan, today we accompany the debate with projects relating to two areas that have not yet, like many others, had a specific look. As for fairs and markets, we speak of an activity developed by individual entrepreneurs or single-person companies, but all with a family character. Therefore, the absence of fairs, be it fresh, clothing, handicrafts, has led to the fact that entire families have been without any incomes, some already several months ago. one of the amendments to the scheme applicable to the lines of credit support for companies, the Government included trade fairs, but there is a serious risk that it will not be sufficient to respond to the impact of the current situation. The economic recovery which is intended, in this period of defination, requires an incentive that responds to the new challenges raised by reopening economic activity developed by fairs and markets, which includes support that enhances its role in supplying populations and includes the creation of extraordinary support for traders and market professionals. On the other hand, as far as the traveling sector of fun and restoration is concerned, there is a similar aspect. We speak of family microenterprises, about 800, whose family aggregates are still out of income for many months now, due to the seasonality of the activity. These companies were preparing to resume their activity in March / April, in several local and Roma festivities, but as everything was cancelled, at least until March 2021, hundreds of microenterprises and their families are facing a highly precarious situation. It is clear that the recovery could be very difficult or impossible for many of these companies. It is therefore urgent to take specific measures for these sectors, with targeted support, in particular with extraordinary support for these workers and with a well-articulated recovery plan, with representatives of the sector and with the authorities, which have a fundamental role in this regard. Therefore, the aim of the proposals is to ensure a response to the high risk associated with the pandemic, which allows the resumption of activity in health and safety conditions at work, avoiding a escalation of the social and economic crisis that has already affected thousands of families. thus, we will have and have an obligation to help at this difficult time, leaving no one behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u154	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now faced with a series of legislative initiatives which, in general, seek to contribute to ensuring the survival of micro and small businesses, until it seems to us that these companies were the recipients of this agenda and, in fact, micro and small businesses have an absolutely central role in our economy, not because of what they represent in the whole of our country's businesses, not only because of the weight they assume in terms of turnover, but also because they represent from the point of view of employment. If even before the health crisis we are experiencing, small businesses were in a very delicate situation, not only because of the excessive levels of indebtedness they were in but also because they were very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term, but because of this crisis they were in a truly suffocating situation. The figures show that thousands of these companies have suspended their activity in recent months or because the containment and confinement measures have thus required or because they have experienced a very sharp breakdown in respect of their usual orders. It happens that the generality of small businesses, even though they have suspended their activity, therefore being deprived of any revenue, have continued to bear their tax obligations and other charges, such as rents of their facilities, energy, insurance and out there. However, in view of this scenario, if support mechanisms are not created, it will not be necessary to make many accounts to realize that these companies will have no other way out than their definitive closure, with all the consequences that result from it for unemployment numbers but also for the relaunch of our economy. That is why the Greens have insisted on the need to create mechanisms that can ensure their survival, not only during but also after this health crisis, because, as all the data indicate, micro and small enterprises are very dependent on domestic demand. As we know, even after this health crisis, the internal market will delay to reach desirable levels, since families have seen their income substantially reduced — because they have been unemployed or because they have remained in layoff — which means that this loss of income will have negative effects on the internal market, on which micro and small businesses depend. We therefore argue that it is imperative that the support mechanisms for these companies should be shown much beyond the health crisis, at least until the internal market reaches the levels at which it was before this pandemic. In any event, and immediately, the Greens feel it is absolutely imperative to create mechanisms to support small businesses from now on, and we therefore accompany all the legislative initiatives under discussion which, in our view, contribute to this in order to ensure the survival of micro and small enterprises. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u156	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the past few months, the legislative priority in this House has focused on the urgency of action and the urgency of responses. That is what the Portuguese and the companies asked us to see each other from time to time with a set of difficulties that were difficult to anticipate a few months earlier. And that's where we all converged. from left to right, all defended more state in the economy, more state in social responses, more state in social action, more state to give liquidity to businesses and more state to save jobs. And, yes, everyone wanted more status! It was not just the parties on the left, it was also the Liberals, because, at a time of tightening, the market, which apparently regulates everything, makes gasket a few days of the week. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But also the PSD and CDS have changed their opinion: those who in 2012 asked for the imposition of the deficit limit in the Constitution are the same ones that now present Keynesian plans to resume economic activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u158	Keynesians? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u159	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the current economic situation does not result from poor government management, it results from a health phenomenon that affects everyone, without exception. And the certainty that this crisis affects us all cannot deviate from the central objective, which is to protect, first, those who are most vulnerable. First of all, we chose to save the lives of the Portuguese. All Portuguese, without exception, are provided with health care, without questioning their incomes. Secondly, we chose to save jobs. We have launched a broad support programme to save employment, through simplified layoff and direct investment and the lost funds of the Portuguese State, which has enabled more than 90 000 companies to support, and to these measures we have added so many others: loans with State guarantee to provide liquidity to businesses, to overcome this brutal initial impact of the economy, we have supported the adaptation of companies with the ADAPTA Programme and we have advanced with moratoriums for the payment of income. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to move forward, and we must do so with weight and responsibility. We know that we are all called to contribute to this process and with the clear objective of protecting those who need it most. It is also in this sense that the Socialist Party will make it possible for the diplomas relating to the support of the fun traveling companies, as well as support for the resumption of the economic activities of the traders, so that we can continue this debate and find fair and dignified solutions for the workers of these sectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u160	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sofia Matos of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not surprising to see the CFP standing next to the companies these days, nor does it cease to be curious that the PS does not speak of any more state.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u162	Ignorance is bold!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u163	But after a good analysis of the bills that, today, are under discussion, we realize that there are only failed attempts. Well, let us look today at a number of bold proposals, which are mostly put forward by the Portuguese Communist Party for support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is undeniable that these companies have the importance of Portuguese business fabric, constituting 97, 3 % of this business fabric, and therefore paying close attention to these companies: they have a decisive weight in the Portuguese business structure; they promote productivity; they create wealth; they create value; they are the motor of the social economy. And it was precisely to think of them that yesterday the PSD presented a program, not Keynesian, but a program to recover and resume economic activity. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] This programme, Mr President, is not a succession of far-reaching measures that do not make any kind of bridge between themselves but, yes, responds to the country's structural challenges. It is an integrated plan designed to respond to the enormous challenges that Portugal has, which are, of course, the result of low productivity, of low competitiveness, but also that it does not fail to respond to the shock caused by the pandemic, and that already in the budget of the supplementary state will materialise on several proposals that we will present to this Assembly of the Republic. I would like to highlight four of these measures: we propose several lines of capitalisation and financing for these SMEs; the reduction of the rate of IRC from 21 % to 17 %, accompanying the special rate for profits up to 100 000 €; the reduction of income for small trade, with the consequent reduction of income tax on households from 28 % to 15 %; and finally, but not less important, oblige the State to pay what it owes to suppliers within 30 days. I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, in this matter, the PSD, in a state of emergency, had already claimed the requirement to pay those due within a maximum of 15 days. If the State wants to be a good person it cannot demand from its citizens what it does not practice itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u164	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u165	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, without businesses and without entrepreneurs, there is no growth. I'm glad the Left Block and the PCP found out. There is no social protection without companies and no entrepreneurs. I'm glad the Block and the PCP noticed that. And without companies and no entrepreneurs, there's no job, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no progress. I'm glad, over 40 years, the left realized that. But the PSD did not take 40 years to demonstrate Portugal and the Portuguese that it is next to them that it has always been and will always be. [[ENP and BE and PCP Members' protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u166	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u167	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Today, as always, the PSD will remain faithful to the defense of the private initiative as the country's economic development engine. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u168	It's a flu engine!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u169	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Companies and entrepreneurs are not all on the same boat. It is precisely because of this that, above all, the attention of the State to the economic activity carried out by individual entrepreneurs, unipersonal companies and all companies with a strong family character. And that is precisely why I will vote in favour of most legislative initiatives. I would like to point out that the draft law of the Liberal Initiative looks at the business fabric as being, all of it, uniform and it is not true that this health crisis has hit all companies in the same way. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the State to effectively make the appropriate investment that is to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, avoiding their closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u171	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two issues which are important to underline very quickly at the end of this debate. First of all, these proposals, and others which have already been debated and voted on in previous weeks, have a lot to do with looking at the Portuguese economic fabric, which is largely composed of micro and small enterprises, and so far there has been no such attention. Many proposals have also been piped by PSD, PS and CDS-PP, and it is therefore good that we may again be discussing with the view of approving some of them. The second point I would like to leave, Mr President, is that, in fact, with regard to the projects on fairs and entertainment roaming companies, we note the Socialist Party's position on this matter, which is relevant—we speak of thousands of families who have been without income for months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u173	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u174	I will finish, Mr. President. What we cannot but note is the absence of someone who put his bill in the drawer — Mr. André Ventura — and who was not worthy to participate in this debate today, which was so important. After all, from word to act it's going to be a big difference! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u176	The CDS-PP still has time for a brief intervention. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I would not use the floor if I had not heard the intervention of the Socialist Party. What we heard today was the speech of the saving State — salvation of this, salvation of that, salvation of that other! — which ignores dismissals and insolvencys. This is the discourse and narrative of the Socialist Party. And the Socialist Party comes to say one thing: it is that the right comes to ask for more State, more State, more State. Have you not read the CDS initiative? Defend less taxes, I repeat, less taxes. And if, at the moment, companies need state support, it is at an exceptional time, but you still ignore it, until this exceptional period they ignore it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u178	What about TAP support? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u179	Therefore, payments on account, special payments within IRS and IRC for the year 2020 are absolutely abusive by this socialist government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u180	For the end of this debate, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a first conclusion which is beyond doubt in this debate, which is that, once again, it has been worth and worth not giving up the defence of fair and necessary proposals for national interest and development. contrary to some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not put everything in the same bag, because micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are not comparable in their reality, in their problems and in their needs to what happens in relation to multinationals and economic groups. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] What is evident to almost everyone today was very difficult to make prevail in the political debate, with many years of proposals, initiatives, debates. In fact, in the debates we are already very advanced, there is a lack of practice in many of these matters. It was many years, for example, to end the special payment on account. We put forward proposals successively and they were plunged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u183	Do you know who you are, Mrs. Deputy? For the PSD, look at it! Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD today had this unforgettable moment and, many years ago, she will miss that 4 June 2020, in which she discovered that it is the PCP that defends micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Sofia Matos.]] In fact, she will be even more frightened when she finds out that the CFP was already defending SMEs, and she was not yet born, and, come on, perhaps, even I — perhaps not, of course! Mr Hugo Carvalho, I would just like to stress the statement he made on the urgency of the action and the urgency of the answers. The urgent need for action and the urgent need for answers is in fact what the country, businesses and workers demand from the government and policy makers. That is why it was excused to speak of this slowness, of this difficulty, of this waste of time and of this so limited approach in the responses to the real problems of micro and small businesses, insofar as we could already have so many problems solved and addressed by the State itself if, for example, the proposals of the CFP in relation to the members-managers — who are still in this House — had been approved two months ago, as we had defended. We appreciate very much — and I conclude, Mr President — what we have the prospect of being approved, leaving this debate. The issue of self-payment, the issue of payers and traveling entrepreneurs, is a very important step forward, but this shows that we have so much to do, that there is so much work, so much proposal to move forward and so much struggle to do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u184	We finish the fourth point and move forward, thus, to the fifth point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos 464 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of response measures to the epidemic of COVID-19, 468 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Creates a possible committee to monitor the economic and social recovery process and 479 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, budgetary impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures of the health, economic and social crisis caused by COVID-19. In order to present its own initiative, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presented, several weeks ago — and today it is discussed — the proposal for the establishment of a possible committee to follow up on the response to the COVID-19 epidemic. If we live in an exceptional situation, and I believe that no one will deny that we are in fact living in an exceptional situation, then it makes every sense that there is also an exceptional mechanism for political and parliamentary supervision of the government. This mechanism, which necessarily passes through Parliament, already exists, has been used several times and is precisely the creation of a possible committee. The aim of this committee is obvious and clear: it must go through a balance sheet of the recent past, the exceptional regimes that have been created and the response that has actually been given under these exceptional pandemic regimes, and it must also continue to monitor this response, either the response to the health problem and the containment of the epidemic, or the decisions that Portugal will take to resume the economy and respond to the social emergency. Let's go somewhere. After the first emergency period, Parliament must have a systematic way of monitoring the evolution of public health data, the use of hospital capacity, diagnostic and immunity tests, the provision of protective equipment, masks, the timing of decisions, their impact and the effectiveness of measures. Understanding also what went wrong in the past means correcting what went wrong for the future. As far as health is concerned, there are still many things we do not know and that cannot be an excuse for Parliament not to fulfil its role. in the same way, also all the exceptional regimes that have been approved, the so-called "crisis law", and the acquisitions of the exception must be scrutinized. I would like to be clear and direct on this matter. The central and main objective of this committee is not to be a 'para-committee' of inquiry in which only tenders are mentioned, but also its aim is, of course, not to pass a sponge on the past, leaving forever in opacity everything that may have happened with this or that acquisition. This is neither a case commission nor a commission designed to prevent cases, it is a committee to monitor the response to COVID-19, either from the public health point of view, from the point of view of the economy, or from the point of view of the social emergency, provided that the epidemic has begun so far in the end and that its effects end. This is the essential point and it is from this scrutiny that Parliament cannot, should not, side by side. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u186	You have the floor, for an intervention to present the Socialist Party's initiative, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, we all know, and suddenly, the times we are going through and the times the country is going through. We all know the difficulties generated with the crisis that developed due to the pandemic of this unknown virus, which has seriously affected our collective experience. We all realize today that our society requires answers. And it requires responses from the political power and therefore also from the Assembly of the Republic. Today we realize that the role of Parliament is absolutely central, responding to the need for success that times require. Part of the success achieved in the direct response to the health crisis — a large part of this success — was achieved much by the collective consensus reached in this House. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, from the Left Block to the Arrival, it was possible to find,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u188	It was a very unfortunate expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u189	... I repeat, it was possible to find answers that gathered the community, gathered the political agents and gathered the response to this same health crisis. In the future, perhaps we may not only be facing this crisis, or that crisis, but we can be devastated by another type of crisis, which is already beginning to show. This crisis is of economic nature, surely — today we realize that there are sectors that are experiencing the tragedy of imminent collapse — and this will also bring about the social crisis, leaving Portuguese people, citizens and citizens who lose their jobs or see their situation worsen in a personal and family way. It was in this sense that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group decided to present the proposal for the establishment of a possible committee, in order to respond to this problem which will arise in our society and which is an economic and social crisis arising from the pandemic. It will not be too many of those who proceed to have solutions to respond to this same crisis. Therefore, if matters are transversal, if they go from education to health, if they go from science to economics, it is necessary to create a parliamentary platform that can gather all subjects and promote a concrete, generalized discussion, before the answers required. The figure of the committee seems to us the figure necessary to promote this debate, to promote hearing and the need for answers, to find solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u190	You have the floor, on behalf of the NAP, for a presentation of your initiative, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing whether or not Parliament wants to have a special committee on COVID-19 and the measures being taken to combat its impact. And here we must avoid falling into two temptations. The first temptation to avoid is to create a committee which evaluates the competences of other specialized committees that already exist, something which could ultimately create a super commission that would hardly be able to do the specialized, thorough and quality work that is required of a possible committee, and is due to generic and simple analyses that are not necessary at this time. On the other hand, we cannot act as the Socialist Party proposes: it only wants to keep an eye on the future and the recovery phase, refusing to evaluate the action of the Government and Parliament at the beginning of the health crisis, because there is nothing to assess, it is past and everything is perfect. For the NAP, it is also necessary to realize what has failed in the past response, what could have been better done or more effective, because we do not know whether, in the second wave, we will not have to adopt measures similar to those we took in March and April. In addition, these measures must have Parliament's supervision because, as the Socialist Party itself has said, democracy is neither suspended nor can it be suspended. But more: these exceptional measures, particularly in the field of public procurement, have not passed, as they will not only condition the country's medium- and long-term future, but will also involve a corrective budget that adapts the country's budgetary policy to the enormous financial burdens arising from these measures. Finally, there is still one aspect that is forgotten by the CDS and the Socialist Party, which is the issue of transparency and combating the risks of corruption in times of COVID-19. Moreover, GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ), the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the International Transparency, the Court of Auditors and the Prevention Council for Corruption warned precisely that corruption not only had disappeared from the pandemic but had been aggravated by an exceptional set of measures. These very diverse entities claim that the need for an effective response to the needs of the health sector, and the public sector in general, brought vulnerability to lobbyists, situations of conflicts of interest, bribes or forgery of documents and medical products. Some of them tell us that, in order to avoid this, we must create transparency mechanisms, on the one hand, and mechanisms for monitoring and monitoring these exceptional measures, especially exceptions to public procurement, on the other. These are the risks and the way to prevent the NAP from wanting Parliament to assess them. We do not want a logic of suspicion, we do not want a media circus, we want that, in the face of a problem that actually exists, if we seek an improvement of procedures. We do not want to have to reach, as happened with the 2017 fires, a situation in which suspicions and doubts are such that they can only be clarified in a committee of inquiry, which only discredits public entities and prevents nothing for the future. We cannot, in the face of disasters, continue to act suddenly without trying to improve. We hope that, on the part of the CDS and the PS, there will be a desire to combine the various positions so that we can ensure that everyone's concerns are guarded and that the concern of the NAP with transparency integrates the object of this important possible committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u192	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we discuss three initiatives of the PS, the CDS and the NAP, which propose the creation of a possible committee: that of the CDS for monitoring the implementation of the response measures to the epidemic; that of the Socialist Party for the monitoring of the process of economic and social recovery; that of the NAP for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness, budgetary impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures of the health, economic and social crisis caused by the COVID-19. Although there are several proposals within the framework of a possible committee, there are some nuances in the proposals. Mrs. Members, I would like to say the following: if there were any questions this Parliament has followed in the last two months, almost three, it has in fact been the answers, the measures and the impacts that the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19 has had on health, economic and social levels, and also the dramatic consequences that many workers have felt, such as the difficulties experienced in the National Health Service. Parliament has not been beyond its responsibility. In addition, even within the scope of its powers to monitor the activities of the Government, he said « present » and, in recent months, the work in the various committees – we can say in virtually all committees, because in fact the impacts are transversal – effectively addressed this matter and its consequences. That is why we are not faced with a lack of Parliament's powers of intervention. Obviously, we believe that it is necessary to monitor developments and implement the various measures and we also believe that measures must be taken to solve concrete problems that persist, because there have been a number of approved measures which, unfortunately, are insufficient in view of the nature and size of the problems that exist in our country. Obviously, we believe that measures are necessary for economic development and social progress. In view of all these aspects, there is something we would like to ask in this debate. There is a set of subjects whose monitoring is so extensive that, of course, within the competences of the standing committees, it takes place. We understand, moreover, that the committees will certainly not cease to follow up, that is, they will not give up their powers in monitoring these matters. Therefore, there will be a need to weigh and avoid effective duplication of work. We are not seeing — just to give an example — that the Health Committee ceases to follow up on the questions relating to the National Health Service and the necessary measures on this matter, that the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing ceases to monitor matters economically or that the Committee on Labour and Social Security ceases to follow up on the issues relating to the difficulties experienced by workers. This is the question that is, in fact, on the table and that we are concerned about this, that there should be no more committee, that there should be no duplication of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u194	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u195	I will finish, Mr. President. I will only reiterate this: Parliament has done this work. We can improve, we can improve, but these are issues that have been in the debate and that have been present in our intervention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u196	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, be welcome to a liberal minute, this time dedicated to an issue that is very expensive to the Liberal Initiative, transparency. During the pandemic, we could observe what we can call "socialist transparency". What is this socialist transparency about? It's a simple two-step strategy. The first step is to publish the numbers and contracts, but only those that give the government good. When confronted with uncomfortable issues relating to numbers and contracts that do not work with the government, such as excess mortality during the COVID-19 period or certain business involving friends of the government, they move on to the second step. What's the second step? It consists in propagating the myth of the Portuguese miracle, saying that, thanks to the Almighty State and the omniscience of the PS, the economy and health surpassed the pandemic period in a heroic way. And, if anyone refers to the deferred consultations, the delays in the support, the Kafkiana bureaucracy, the sacrifices of people and private companies, in essence, if someone questions the miraculous powers of the PS, then they repeat the second step, reinforce the highest myth, because it is already known, a thousand times repeated lie, sometimes passes. We will therefore support the establishment of a possible committee to assess the response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic, because it is necessary to ensure that this socialist transparency is replaced by genuine transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u198	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Some parties, including the CDS, the PS and the NAP, seem to believe that a new parliamentary committee is needed, adding to the 14 standing specialized committees, which are in full operation, therefore a possible committee to do what is to a large extent done by these 14 parliamentary committees, which are in full operation. For example, even last week, the Health Commission heard the Order of Nurses and the Order of Doctors, even at the request of the CDS-PP, so that the Order of Nurses and the Order of Physicians could tell Parliament, in their opinion, what had gone well, what had gone wrong, as had been the response to the pandemic and the COVID-19, in Portugal. Now, in the CDS-PP proposal, there appears, exactly, a possible commission to hear the Order of Doctors and the Order of Nurses, to come and tell Parliament, in your opinion, what went well and what went wrong in combating the epidemic in the country, something that has already been done by the Health Commission. Even this week, several unions, several structures representative of health workers were heard just to say the same thing. Therefore, there are committees in operation which are, of course, evaluating at all times the reality of the political decisions being taken. In addition to the committees, there is the plenary itself, which has never resigned from its functions, despite some parties, particularly the CDS-PP, at a certain point in time, believe that Parliament should close,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u200	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u201	...to close completely, and that there should be no plenary. So now, the CDS came back with a possible commission all the work I didn't want to have done during that time. But if the CDS, the PS and the PAN feel that there must be a new committee to add to the 14 standing committees that already exist, the Block will not oppose it. It won't be by the Block that it won't be made. But let me also make it clear that the Bloc will not allow permanent committees to be emptied, to the detriment of a committee where possible, because the powers of the specialized committees must of course be preserved. But since we are talking about committees and because there seems to be some temptation on the right side to use a commission to retrospectively make some adjustment of accounts with the National Health Service, which has proved fundamental, I think that, in this committee, we should also evaluate, for example, the role of the private sector during the epidemic, which was shameful,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u202	... that was completely irresponsible, nullifying conventions with the SNS. Now, we should also compare the responses to the epidemic, particularly with Farol countries on the right and the extreme right, such as the United States, Brazil,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u203	And Venezuela! And Spain!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u204	... where there is no health system, where its grippings, finally, people who say so much to admire, have shown a lot of response to the needs of the populations. If it is really to assess, I believe it is also necessary to make this comparison with the private sector and with the other countries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u205	Mr Fernando Negrão of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the bottom, and at the end of the line, what we are discussing is an old and latent problem in Portuguese society: the problem of prevention and combating corruption. There are those who find grace when we talk about corruption in Parliament, it is curious, but this problem has no grace at all, because we have to be careful about what is happening. The problem of corruption in Portugal has days: there are days when corruption is much discussed, in which there are many legislative initiatives and many committees of this and of that; then we have days when no one talks about corruption in Portugal. These, unfortunately, are more than the first ones. Parliament has a duty to say, when we speak of a committee which has already been explained by a number of colleagues, which is the problem of corruption, prevention and combating corruption, where it is detected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u208	Let us see the problem of corruption today through the report of the GRECO Group, which is the most prestigious group of the Council of Europe. This presented its 2019 report with 15 recommendations for Portugal. How many have been fulfilled? One — one! —, and eight in part. The remaining six were not met. And Portugal is in the non-compliance group of the Council of Europe, according to the GRECO group. Therefore, these proposed committees are of the greatest importance at a time of crisis, because it is at times of crisis that rushes with opportunity and greed. This is the broth of corruption!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u210	The PSD will therefore vote in favour of the three legislative initiatives, which are worth not only one covering all situations—backward, forward, health and economic—to ensure that there is no doubt about what is at stake and that Parliament has fulfilled its duty, in order to monitor all situations linked to the pandemic crisis, all legislative acts carried out and all the public money that have been used for its fight. We hope that this work, since we have already seen that there is practically unanimity, will be done with all freedom and without conditionalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u212	We hope to be able to ask for what we have to ask for and to assign responsibilities to anyone. In other words, we must respect Parliament. We must respect Parliament through a work done in freedom and without fear. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u213	Mr Luís Testa has the floor for a supersonic intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It may have seemed or may even have been interpreted by some that the need to set up this committee was to subsume other committees. It's nothing like that. At least on the subject of the Socialist Party's proposal, what is at stake is just the systematic and abundant finding of themes, proposals and needs that are often transversal to more than two, three or four committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u215	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u216	I do not want to understand this too is to reduce Parliament's response to the need to set up a committee so that it can discuss these matters itself, because if it does not do so, no one else will discuss them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u217	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing is, in fact, how and how we are going to monitor the business that has been done, particularly in the area of health, when the government has asked this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u219	Again? Oh, my God! What about the fairies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u220	... the direct adjustment power, in this matter. We can look to the side, but the truth is that it is money from the taxpayers that we are using and controlling it is our main task. This implies that we should not leave behind any direct adjustment that has been made, none that has not been published, none that has been published in time, because it is not my money or yours, it is the money of all the Portuguese taxpayers. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, there is no problem in analyzing private hospitals as well. What costs a lot is the blindness of a party, or of several parties, who insist on humiliating the private sector in every intervention they make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u221	You little bastards!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u222	On 4 April, the following was reported: « Private hospitals have already served more than 2200 patients suspected of COVID-19 in one week ». What's your word for them? What is your word for these hundreds of workers who pay taxes and who also support this House? The word is « serve nothing, let us monitor you». Mr. Deputy, nothing against it! Let's do this: we'll monitor the public in the same way that we'll monitor the private! [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] We'll monitor your friends in the same way we'll monitor the private sector. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u223	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u224	It is very easy to always be shooting at companies, entrepreneurs, those who pay taxes. It is very easy to always be telling them: « pay more, that we are here for this».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u225	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. Private hospitals also made an important part of the fight we all fought against COVID.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u228	And you are nothing more than that in this fight. Humility required you! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u229	You'll see and we've been saved by SAMS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u230	For the end of the debate on this point, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor as soon as there are sound conditions for Mrs Meireles to be able to intervene, which is not yet the case but will be. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting Mrs Cecilia Meireles speak. Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your kindness and for your firmness too. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, I would like to say, firstly, that this initiative of the CDS for the creation of a possible committee to follow up on the response to the COVID. And so much so that, from what we can know, others will join these initiatives. For our part, I would like to say that obviously they will have reciprocity on the part of the CDS in the feasibility of other proposals and other committees, all the more so that, in relation to the NAP, I believe that the differences between the two proposals are few and punctual, to say none, and in relation to the PS, as long as there is openness to the past, there will also be no problem. I would just like to make it clear that it is obviously not the intention of this committee to empty the others, as it is too obvious. Everyone has to start doing their job. It was said that there was a subject which was discussed in this Parliament, namely the COVID. But there were some issues related to COVID that were not discussed here, of which Parliament was left out and which have to do with monitoring the response. This has not been done here and must be done both in relation to the past and in relation to the present. Perhaps this becomes clearer for some parties, because I understood there was some consensus here, although some parties seem more interested in finding the small things in which we are dissonant than the bulk in which we agree. I confess that I did not understand Mr Moisés Ferreira's intervention, because I believe that the honourable Member creates enemies, ideas, attributes to the other arguments that they had never had and then slams against them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u232	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u233	This is a kind of discussion with yourself,... [[Mr André Ventura's laughs.]] ... in which it calls other people and other parties who have nothing to do with this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u234	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u235	... because the CDS, never in life, proposed that Parliament close. Mr. Deputy invented this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u236	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u237	I'd still like to tell you that there's something that can't be made clear. The honourable Member said: 'we must make international comparisons'. You're absolutely right. I think there are comparisons we can make, for example, with our neighbor Spain,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u238	What a comparison!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u239	... in which the party that Mr. Deputy knows well and even imitates, called Podemos, is in power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u241	...and it may be interesting to make these international comparisons to realize exactly the misfortune that you bring when you get to power.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u242	And Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u243	One more thing I can't tell you is that the honourable Member said something very serious here...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u244	To show that the SNS works!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u245	...that leads me to defend the honour of thousands of Portuguese, that you here today, offended. The honourable Member said that private behaviour during the pandemic was shameful.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u246	They shut the door!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u247	That's what the honourable Member said. I would like to tell you, in the name and defense of thousands and thousands of Portuguese workers working in IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) in Portugal, who have done much to combat the pandemic... [[PSD, CDS-PP and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u248	I speak on behalf of the workers of the SAMS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u249	... and who have very abdicated their lives, days, weeks and weeks closed in institutions in this country to defend the lives of the elderly and the patients who treat them, and you offended them. And if I was ashamed, I should have apologized. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[BE Protests and CDS-PP counterprotests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u250	That concludes this item on the agenda. We move on to the sixth point, which consists in the assessment of Resolution Projects Nos. 447 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government not support polluting industries in the context of the COVID-19 and 430 / XIV / 1 crisis. a (PEV) — Recommends that the Government do not rescue large polluting industries in the period of influence of COVID-19 and in the relaunch of the economy. To present the NAP initiative, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: History has shown us that, in the face of an economic crisis, the trend is a recovery and recovery without looking at means. Following an economic crisis, the focus is always on a productive emergency, which aims to trigger growth at any cost. The reduction in the price of oil, which will probably continue for some time, will discourage investment in clean technologies and governments will be desperate to raise the gross domestic product as soon as possible, even though this implies support for polluting industries. This cannot be the way if we want to foster a new reality that protects us from future crises that are already coming and that will be inevitable if we bet on returning to business the usual ones. At 10 years of the non-climate return point, we cannot continue to insist on the same model that has led us to the current economic and climate crisis. The moment requires us to work towards the transformation of socio-economic models, focusing on the well-being of people and establishing a relationship of balance and respect for the limits of the planet. We are not starting from zero and we must capitalize on investments already made and empower many others, in order to make the European Ecological Pact the central element for the construction of a new European Union that is solidarity, transparent, attentive to the needs of people, fair and fair and in balance with our natural base. this crisis is very clear that State intervention is essential to respond effectively, but also to other crises that we have to face. It is not possible to constantly de-invest in the structures that guarantee security, health services, education and social support, something that should be changed in the wake of this crisis. We must ensure that the operation of companies in times of crisis and at the time of their economic recovery complies with labour law, by strengthening the inspection capacity and action by regulatory entities. But in addition to all this, we must ensure that there is a concerted, coherent and coherent strategy with a medium/long-term vision in the direction of sustainability, communicated carefully and consciously, justifying well the options taken to win the support of citizens and entrepreneurs for the opportunity to operate a structural change towards environmental sustainability and a more resilient and just society. The aim should be to stimulate economically in the short term, but giving clear signs to the market of which the path will be in the medium to long term, giving confidence to the business fabric on and where to direct its investments. And a strategy with a commitment vision has as its premise that all support must be offered with counterparts in terms of sustainable development. The taxpayers' money should not be used to pass blank cheques to polluting companies or sectors. A government committed to meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the objectives of the European Ecological Pact, including the most ambitious commitments to reduce emissions to 2030 and carbon neutrality to 2050, must ensure that rescues and economic support are not directed to polluting companies or sectors, without environmental compensation. Economic recovery cannot make environmental legislation more flexible; it must place an obligation on investment and training for a fair and ecological transition in the field of energy, agriculture, tourism, aviation, mobility and transport or waste and the circular economy. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a time of difficult choices, but it is also time to define our collective future. We must therefore face it with hope and courage to promote the transition to sustainability, which is fundamental to the existence of the human species. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u252	To present the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are currently living a global public health emergency that requires the adoption of an exceptional and temporary package of measures. The various impacts that will be felt not only in health but also in economic and social terms, with the slowdown of the economy and with negative consequences in multiple sectors of activity. We must prevent that they do not feel in environmental terms as well. Is this not the opportunity for public money to be channelled to investments in sustainable models to combat climate change through inclusive and sustainable growth and green jobs? Is it not time to fulfill the promises made to combat climate change, with the change of behaviour about the planet? The Greens believe that, during the current crisis, state money should be directed towards models committed to balance and sustainability. It should, preferably, be used for a green economy and favouring micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose role is absolutely decisive in our economy, not in large polluting companies. As is increasingly evident, climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing mankind and must continue to be addressed with the right priority, and must bet on the energy transition, investing above all in clean and green technologies. We must stop and, instead of saving surplus, polluting and carbon intensive industries, instead of supporting fossil fuels with public subsidies, we must take as a guideline the promotion of tax incentives to projects that contribute to the transition of the economy. Along with all the aspects that it is important to safeguard, it is essential that the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic does not affect the global and national sustainability objectives. Moreover, investments in the production of electricity from renewable sources will also be fundamental to overcoming this crisis. The truth is that everything countries do during and after the crisis should also be concerned about the construction of more equal, inclusive and sustainable economies, basically, societies that are more responsive to the challenges we face, regardless of their nature. It is necessary to respond to health, social, economic and environmental challenges, and this is done with concrete actions and measures. That is precisely what, along with other initiatives that the Greens have been presenting, is proposed through this draft resolution. We stress that the project that The Greens bring today the debate aims, in the relaunching of the economy we need, that public money did not serve to rescue large polluting industries. We understand that this is a good sign that the government can and should give to citizens and businesses. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u254	For an intervention, I now give the floor to the Member who does not register Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will vote in favour of these legislative initiatives precisely because it is time to regulate and tax extractive industrial activity, as the main polluter. We are talking about taxing extractive industrial activity, and not supporting it or financing it, precisely because at this moment, more than at any time before, it is urgent to ensure strict compliance with environmental goals. This time of pandemic is calling us for an acceleration of the energy transition rather than its postponement. It's time for paradigm change. It is time for us, indeed, to comply with our environmental rhetoric.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u256	The next intervention is by Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the coronavirus has further exposed the inability of capitalism to the problems of humanity. In the face of the pandemic, all the dogmas and arguments of the advocates of capital, the supremacy of private initiative, consumerism, the unbridled exploitation of natural resources, the liberalisation of economic and labour relations and the wonders of the single market have been reduced to nothing. And, as it was clear that everything without workers was also exposed to the country's fragility because of the lack of national production and sovereignty, particularly economic. It was and is evident the enormous importance of public services, such as the SNS, and of public intervention in the sectors of collective life, which cannot be mercantilized. Nature and environment are one of these sectors. For the CFP, State investments and bets must take into account—and it is a constitutional right of the people—the protection of the environment. It is the social function of the State to promote a less polluting economy with less waste of resources, with strategic planning and control over key sectors such as energy, transport and waste. We will therefore follow the Greens' project. Not only is it possible to combine progress with environmental protection, as they are interconnected, because if the economy revolved around the satisfaction of human needs and not of profit, we would not have these problems, we would not be having this conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u258	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u259	If we had the ownership and management of the key sectors and if we had economic and financial instruments, not only would national impoverishment and dependence be stopped, as could the economy be oriented towards environmentally sustainable development. What is not understood is what the NAP proposes. The NAP proposes, categorically, that it not be supported, either in what way, all and any industry that uses fossil fuels or that pollutes, i.e. a company that has a car. It does not want the country to produce, that it feeds the population, that it sustains its needs and therefore what it wants, necessarily, is that we have to send out, that we stop producing meat to send it into containers in Latin America, that we abandon the food and food industry, that we do not produce textiles or even car components, even for electrics, that is to be produced by others, with the same or greater impact of fossil energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u261	Whether we continue to consume 70 % of imported fish or deliver TAP to the Dutch, so that when we want to fly, we become dependent on Ryanair or Lufthansa. Mrs. Members, therefore, not only are we poorer and more dependent, as we do the greatest environmental attack, which is the import, at the level of energy and logistics, with the aggravating that we cannot guarantee environmental standards in those countries to which the NAP wants to deliver the national catering. Obviously, we can't follow this. For the PCP, what is needed is to produce locally and sustainably, instead of sending out;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u262	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u263	... to establish environmentally demanding priorities and criteria; and to ensure compliance with environmental legislation, with the means to do so. And you cannot get into the same bag, as the NAP does, the responsibilities of small and medium-sized enterprises and those of large multinationals. The environment, the people and the country demand, yes, the control of waste, energy, more and better public transport, a diversified, balanced and modernised production that ensures internal supply and combats over-indebtedness and dependence, respecting the environment and the quality of life of the population. It's in this fight that the PCP is in! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u264	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, last week, brought to plenary a similar proposal to be voted on, so we already know the result of the vote. We propose that support for private enterprises and the economy be in line with the privileges and priority of environmental needs, energy and ecological improvement of businesses and also employment creation for the ecological and energy transition. The PSD refrains from giving any centrality to the environment and climate change in its economic recovery programme. There is an environmental crisis and a climate crisis, but the PSD considers that it is not relevant. The PS, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival voted against. Well, they want the economy to continue as it has so far, but the economy as so far, business them as usual, brings us the climate abyss and social inequalities and refuses to change this reality. The Left Block believes that it is time to change and that, when we talk about public money, we have to have social equality, create employment for social needs and adapt the economy to serve the interests of mankind. But these parties, of course, don't want to. There are still moments in the previous debate when I saw the right to speak of the workers in the private sector. And he was talking about these workers for what? To protect them from work abuse? Precautionary? To guarantee your social rights? Guarantee more pay? Don't! He was talking about private workers in order to guarantee the rights of the private sector to the public sector. Now that we're talking about public support to private companies, what does the right tell us? He says that he does not even think of talking about the environment, that private companies do what they want, that there is no state intervention to ensure that the economy evolves to social needs, that it evolves to job creation, that it evolves to social equality and that it evolves to ensure that the environmental crisis ceases. The Left Block opposes the model that you are very well defending and that has brought us the climate crisis and inequality. They have our alternative in the social area and in the environmental area. We're here for that! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u266	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Patrício Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two draft resolutions are based on a principle that we follow, that of concern to the planet, based on the priority of investing in clean and green technologies, to ensure the transition to a neutral carbon economy. Decarbonization is today a need that we cannot and should not delay. We need to encourage a sustainable economy by placing an energy efficiency and renewable energy programme. In fact, the road is going and we have to make decisions, but the fact is that the vast majority of companies, in some way or another, still need fossil fuels to develop their activity. This means that proposing not to grant support to companies that use them, at this particular time of pandemic, limits any support that so many companies need. Therefore, it would be wrong to use this type of work that affects the principle that we share, which should not allow us to forget the urgent need to guarantee jobs which, directly or indirectly, could be affected by such a measure. In fact, they imagine the social impact on local development, at the moment of recovery of a global pandemic, which would have these measures. And they would have an even greater impact on large industries, which here we want to prevent them from accessing any kind of support. In principle, I would like to say again that this is actually the time to do better. The world stop resulting from the COVID-19 shows, on the horizon, the priority that has to be given to the planet by whom it has to decide. This is the time for the government to implement genuine policies of sustainability — social, economic and environmental — based on the circular economy. The Government must assume its responsibilities and contribute to a gradual and rapid decarbonisation of the industry. Supports should therefore also, and in part, be associated with an environmental performance and efficiency commitment in productive chains by those who receive them. By the same principle consistency, the PSD, in the economic recovery programme presented yesterday, makes clear its intention to bet on measures to support a green economy based on digital transition and the circular economy. The PSD's commitment to companies and industry is precisely to make the way for a better and better environmental performance, with less impact, greater decarbonisation and more efficient and sustainable processes. Finally, the measures to be taken must always take into account the context of their application, so we must be defenders of the planet but without demagogy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u268	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The two initiatives under discussion are merely demagogic pollution, to which is also added the discourse of the Block Left. Let us separate the waters: one thing is the fight against climate change, the promotion of a green economy, renewable energies, commitment and commitment to the circular economy, and I think that there is no one in this House who does not defend it; another thing is the moment we are living and which clearly obliges the definition of other priorities, without these other priorities being a complete ralla table on environmental issues, that is, there is a need for good sense. at this moment, the public money we have heard here must be channeled to save companies and save jobs. This is the goal we have now. So this situation has forced us to redefine. What is strange is that parties that have these kinds of initiatives, then they also have initiatives, in this same House, of nationalization, for example, of TAP. We're talking about the company that has the most pollution in Lisbon! The same parties that complain and come here say « no, there can be no public money in polluting industries and companies, in companies using fossil fuels » are the same parties that say they want to nationalize TAP. You're going to nationalize her how? With private money? No, they'll certainly be public resources. So the following questions are asked: did you study how many companies in Portugal do not depend on such fossil fuels? Do you want to close a good part of our business fabric in Portugal because these same fuels are used? Do you know what impact this will have on the Portuguese economy? In the number of unemployed? Not GDP? There is a lot of demagogy here in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u270	For an intervention, Mr. Miguel Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today is not about who is more or less ecological, but about how Parliament can lead and accelerate decarbonisation in Portugal. And for some parties, the solution is easy—it is forbidden! Forbidden! It's decarbonization by decree! The projects that are being discussed today want, in the midst of the greatest economic and social crisis in the last 90 years, to prohibit any form of support for pollutant companies or — see the use of fossil fuels. This asks the question: but is there any company that would resist this generic ban and generally absurd? From small trade and services, which still use the car for supplies or deliveries, to industries and agriculture, which, however sustainable they are, as far as they reduce their impacts, always have some emission of pollutants, what these projects defend, in fact, is that no one is supported. We heard beautiful speeches, but far from reality. The truth is that the projects under discussion could prohibit rescue on the basis of unsustainable business models, could condition support for a decarbonisation commitment, but that is not what they do, as for example, to France, Germany and Austria. Your commitment is to a blind ban. Even by prohibiting these support, after some failures, after there were more people in unemployment, what was left? Pollution, pollution and climate change would unfortunately continue. And that's exactly why these projects are bad ecology, because a quick and fair transition to a neutral carbon economy does not just end polluting activities, promotes their decarbonization through business investment in this direction. We know that in the short term this is a path that implies expenditure, but we also know that in the medium term it is a better way not only for the planet but also for the profitability of companies themselves. I mean, would that be a rescue? Maybe, but a green rescue, a rescue not only from companies but also from our future, from our planet, and that would be very positive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country really needs to decarbonise, and quickly. We are facing a climate emergency, as Parliament unanimously acknowledged a year ago. If we, the younger ones, are going to face this crisis in a more severe way, climate change is already helping to spread the pandemics and accelerate the economic and social crises we are experiencing. The fight against climate change does not require easy solutions but they become inefficient or even counterproductive, based on abstract prohibitions and indifference to bankruptcy and unemployment, needs investment, a fair and rapid transition and a structured and rigorous commitment, such as the one we are preparing with the basic law of climate. Mr President, we are not against these projects because we put the economy above ecology, on the contrary, but because we need solutions and, instead of trying to solve the climate crisis by accentuating the economic and social crisis, we can fight them together. For serious ecology, the Portuguese people continue to rely on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u272	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It becomes clear that we have a fundamental challenge ahead of us, which is sustainable balance and the fight against climate change. It is also clear that we live in one of the most troubled periods in the history of business tissue. And what these projects are proposing to us is simply the end of support for the vast majority of the national industry, the vast majority of the national economy. It agrees that it should be explained that industries and businesses are concerned, so that workers from all the industries in the country know that this House has a proposal for deliberation to withdraw these support, to withdraw support from companies that are suffocated. They will say: « You are polluters, come out of support! ; « Ah, but let's go to unemployment! ; « My friends, take care! ; « Ah, but let's close! ; « They are polluters, take care! » ; « We have no more margin! ; “We care! » ; « We have nothing more! ... » Well, ask the PAN or BE for help; perhaps they support you! There is a time when we have to look at the economy! Mr André Silva, I have read very carefully your initiative, as well as another that has just come to the news about the reintegration of prostitutes in Portugal. They seem very similar because, in fact, you say that you want to end these support but you do not say why others will be replaced, you say that you want to reintegrate prostitutes and they themselves come to say that they do not want to, because they would earn less than €40 or €50 per month. You have to understand what you want, because pretending that there is no part of the country that lives on this, because you want to end TAP one day and want to...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u274	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u275	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, I want to take the support of TAP one day and want to support TAP in another, want to end the industry in the North one day and want to support the workers in the other, because it doesn't match the boot with the garbage! You have to decide what you want, because, any day, there will be no worker in this country who takes you seriously.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u276	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This theme of the environment also has its populists, priests of nearly religion, their idols, their rituals, their commandments, their heretics and, of course, their dogmas. For example, they refuse to recognize scientific evidence, which they would normally idolize, which strongly correlates the economic freedom of countries with their environmental performance. It is in the richest and most developed countries that there is a greater concern about the environment. It is easy to see that people will not be worried about the environment if they are hungry or cold, if they are unemployed, if they are poor or if they are worried about the health or the education of their children. That is why economic growth is the best friend of the environment. The populists of the environment reject this evidence and appeal to economic impoverishment pretending that they are green, when in fact they are red under the bark.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u278	What a little creativity!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u279	As has always happened in the great crossroads of humanity, it was human creativity, supported by adequate investment, which produced the innovations and technological progress that came to solve or reduce these problems. Creativity, innovation and investment are therefore the keys to solving problems and are incompatible with the type of society that the populists of the environment defend. For this reason, and in accordance with our political programme and practice, we will vote in favour of this proposal so that the Government does not grant support to the polluting industries. At least it is a case in which we can prevent the State from entering where it should not be in the economy and from harming the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u280	What an inconsistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u281	For a new intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal of the Left Block is very simple: creating jobs and giving priority to public investment in order to convert polluting companies into less polluting companies. This is different, for example, from the NAP proposal, which you think should not invest in improving companies. We want to improve companies and we want this improvement to help create jobs. Today, thousands and thousands of jobs are missing so that the people who do not have energy can have and do not die from cold in winter, so that the people who lack food today do not have, so that the people who today have great failures in their quality of life, due to climate change, see their problems solved. The energy transition takes thousands of jobs, but what we saw today in this debate is that the right comes here and tells us: "Please don't talk about the environment right now! Please don't talk about the environment! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Then, for example, we looked at the CDS and we found that during the years that it had the ministry of the environment and agriculture it did not speak in the environment either.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u283	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u284	It was an environmental disaster! It was a climate disaster! In fact, much we still have today is architecture of the PSD and CDS, of Assumption Cristas, leader of the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u285	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor also for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing this last intervention in which the Left Block failed to explain how one day it defends the nationalization of TAP and the other defends a proposal of this kind,... [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's protests.]] ... now he comes to say—and that is why I say that this debate is polluted, you are the polluters of this debate—that we need to create companies and create jobs! You didn't realize the crisis we're living in. Isn't it? [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] He did not realize that, if there is no support for companies to keep this job, there is no creation of anything. There's destruction! Besides, that's what it looks like the Left Block wants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u287	In your government, there has been job destruction!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u288	When you come to say that there was a minister of the environment and agriculture, I want to tell you that he was a great minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u289	Let the BES say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u290	I know you don't recognize that! I know you don't recognize! [[BE's protests.]] But there's one thing I know: if the Left Block were government... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Well, I would like to conclude, if there are any conditions, Mr President, by thanking you for your tolerance. If the Left Block were government, there would be one thing we'd be sure of: companies would disappear and jobs would disappear. That's what we don't want, and that's why we don't follow you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u291	To close the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many continue to claim in this debate that economic recovery must be blind to the challenges of climate change and ecosystem protection and that the NAP does not want to know about the economy. We have seen the Communist Party – and it is not new – handing over to the great interests, standing next to the PSD, the CDS and the Socialist Party. [[PAN's applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] The PCP, the only party in this Chamber who has not ratified the Paris Agreement, comes, as always, to defend the great interests, comes to defend the TAP and, in environmental matters, as for the CDS, PSD and PS, the worst. They then come, like the other parties on the right, like the other parties that defend the great economic interests of the biggest polluters in the country, to distort our initiatives, such as the PSD, which means that they do not grant support to companies that still use fossil fuels limits them. Obviously it limits them! In fact, I ask the PSD: should we or should we not, as a State, support these companies with public money, of all of us, make it possible for them to improve their environmental standards? That's what I'm asking you. [[PAN's applause.]] Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, came to speak in priorities and common sense. Obviously, we should have priorities and one of the current priorities is to save companies, to rescue companies. I ask you: is there any sense in putting millions of euros to rescue highly polluting companies without counterpart? And now you have to tell me where is a statement, or a position of principle, or an initiative of the NAP, that you want to nationalize the TAP. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] You, speaking of these initiatives, have missed the truth here! I asked the Prime Minister about TAP yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u293	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u294	I shall conclude, Mr President. I asked the Prime Minister whether or not he was going to condition the support, regardless of how we put them in the TAP, with a view to improving environmental standards. On the other hand, contrary to what the Socialist Party Member said, we do not want to ban anything, we want to condition. You want to invest millions of euros...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u295	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u296	... in companies, in particular in the TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u297	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u298	... without at least requiring them to improve their environmental standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u299	Mr André Silva, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u300	And this, from an environmental point of view, is unacceptable! We are going to nude what you have put in the electoral programme, because it is seen as a mistake the priority they say to combat climate change. Mr President, I apologize and thank you for your tolerance. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u301	Before we move on to the last point of our agenda, I just wanted to draw the attention of all the ladies and gentlemen. Members in the sense that when they use the word not of the first row but of the subsequent rows, they comply with the rules we are bound to in the Assembly of the Republic. I therefore ask that they wear a mask so that there is no violation of these standards. Let us therefore turn to the joint assessment of the Bill No. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Amendment is made to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, for the elimination of taxation, at the IRS headquarters, on compensation and subsidies taken by Portuguese firefighters in the provision of voluntary service and draft Law No 413 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure fair treatment for volunteer firefighters ( Amended Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, Decree-Law No 87 / 2019 of 2 July, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2006 of 15 March ). To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are pleased to see the Parliament of the Autonomous Region of Madeira bring this important matter to the Assembly of the Republic, which we could not fail to follow by presenting an own initiative. The COVID-19 made it clear, and in different dimensions, the weaknesses we have. If there is a lesson to be learned it is the need, more than imperative, to recognize those who care for us their fair claims, and that proclamational speeches, speeches full of good intentions, palms or congratulations do not arrive, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! After years in which Parliament and successive governments have listened to the demands of the associations representing firefighters, the catastrophic fires of 2017 were needed so that some of these fair claims would finally be met. But for the NAP, the recognition and appreciation of those who care for us cannot take place only in the heat of disasters, must be something structural and permanent in time. Let us take note of the case of volunteer firefighters and how much our country still has to do to ensure their worth and dignity, taking into account the numerous risks they face to carry out the honorable mission of serving the community without requiring anything in return. The volunteer firefighters, alongside the professionals who work in this area, are the backbone of our civil protection, either in the fight against fires that tragically have engulfed the country from north to south and islands, year after year, whether daily in support of the populations, particularly the most isolated ones. It is because they are important for the safety of communities and for all their courage and altruism that voluntary firemen deserve Parliament to be able to finally recognize them the public service they provide to the country every day, paying with the adoption of concrete measures and not only with votes of appreciation. Therefore, today, the NAP brings to the discussion two proposals that take a step forward in the process of valuing volunteer firefighters, which can only be welcomed by the other parties, which we hope will accompany us, on the shame of perpetuating a tremendous injustice and ingratitude towards these people. The first step we propose is to ensure the replacement of the IRS tax exemption on compensation and subsidies taken by firefighters in their voluntary activity. We must not forget that the 2017 State Budget revoked this exemption, i.e., it took a step back penalizing all these people, which means that today these incomes are not subject to retention at source, but, yes, autonomously taxed at the rate of 10 % at the time of the annual liquidation of the IRS by the Tax Authority. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a situation that needs to be reversed, not only because it penalises firemen but also because it discourages volunteering. On the other hand, we also propose to ensure that the age of access to the pension, as well as its complement, for volunteer firefighters who have at least 30 years of service effectiveness, is reduced by six years in relation to the general scheme. This amendment is an old claim from voluntary firefighters' representative associations and will give them access to a treatment equal to the one that today, and well, it already ensures that firefighters are flying and municipal. For us, this fair measure should not be limited to voluntary firefighters integrated in the staff framework of the associations, not only because this situation would leave out most firefighters, but also to deal with different situations that are the same, which is unacceptable to the NAP. It is important here to remember that there are many, more than 42,000 volunteer firemen in our country who, without being integrated into the staff of the associations, abdicate their personal time, their safety, their leisure moments to serve the country, often in night pickets, without any conditions, starting at 21 hours and who, in the morning, at the end of this picket, have to resume their normal life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u303	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u304	I conclude now, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal is of the most fundamental justice. We cannot continue to send these people to the front line of combat and not give answers to their fair demands. That's what we asked for today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u305	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, author of this initiative aimed at resolving a situation that is unfair to volunteer firefighters, not only in Madeira but throughout the country. In the 2017 State Budget, a rule was unanimously adopted which has created a confusing situation in which the same IRS Code defines in Article 3(7). the, that the IRS does not affect compensation and subsidies relating to voluntary activity made available to firefighters and Article 72 ( 18 ). the, defines that compensation and subsidies relating to voluntary activity placed at the disposal of firefighters are subject to a limit of three times the IAS (indexing social support) if they are taxed autonomously. The legislator's intention does not seem to have been to create a tax on compensation and subsidies relating to the voluntary activity of firefighters. The limitation laid down in Article 72. the, in view of any taxation of these compensations, should not exceed the negative delimitation of the tax provided for in Article 3. o. This created doubts which led the AT ( Tax and Customs Authority ) to disclose in a trade which, although recognizing that the legislator said less than it intended to say, its interpretation was that these incomes should be taxed. What the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira has suggested in this Bill is that the IRS Code be amended to ensure that the rule allowing such interpretation by the AT is removed and also to extend the scope of Article 3(7). the IRS Code to include compensation and subsidies made available to firefighters for all civil protection authorities, including, therefore, the regional civil protection services of autonomous regions that were not expressly contemplated. In the view of the PCP Parliamentary Group, this measure makes sense and resolves an injustice against firefighters, which are the basis of civil protection in Portugal. We will vote in favour of this initiative, but much more needs to be done to ensure more support for volunteer firefighters. Incentives are needed for volunteering, more funding, guaranteeing individual protective equipment, measures to support firearms bodies, such as access to green gas oil, as the CFP has proposed in various State budgets, and a law on the basis of civil protection that does not subaltern firefighters and that gives proper command and territorial structure to the reality of the country. The Portuguese firemen demand respect and justice for all they do for our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u307	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal for the Law of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which has motivated the scheduling of this debate, is easy to understand. In 2013, by proposed law of the then PSD Government / CDS-PP, the compensations and allowances taken by firefighters in their voluntary activity during the vacation or rest period were exempt. At that time, with the granting of this exemption, a final point was placed in the remaining doubts about the regime of taxation of the soldiers of peace — doubts which, it is recalled, remained 22 years ago — while reaffirmed the irreplaceable role of the Portuguese firefighters. As already mentioned by the Member of the Communist Party, it happens that with the State Budget for 2017, the tax of 10 % was paid back under IRS on these compensations and subsidies when not awarded by the employer, a situation that remains until today. What we are discussing in both initiatives is, however, the repeal of this taxation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our thoughts on this matter are very simple and very clear. The PSD has always argued that, in defining public policies, special attention should be given to protection and relief matters and, we would say, that we should even prioritize them. Similarly, we always advocate the valorization of all those who take on the mission in their lives to protect others and, finally, without ever losing sight of the sustainability of public finances — I insist, without ever losing sight of the sustainability of public finances — we argue that tax matters can also be seen as a stimulus to volunteering and to what is good and positive in our country. Therefore, in this context, as well as in the context in which we are currently living, we understand that this debate has conditions to continue and to be deepened in the field of expertise. We therefore believe that this initiative goes down without a vote to the Committee on Budgets and Finance so that this deepening is continued, in particular in the evaluation of the financial impact, which we now suggest is done by UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit). For the same reasons, in this case added, since the draft law of the NAP talks on this tax matter and also on matters relating to the situation contributing to the social security of Portuguese firefighters, we leave the challenge for the NAP to require equal procedure with regard to its draft Law. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u309	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen : We know that firefighters are the first civil protection agent. In Portugal, and it is a particular situation in the world panorama, the overwhelming majority of firefighters are volunteers from the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters, although some of them are professionalized, hired by the associations. In this regard, however, it should be borne in mind that even these have served on a voluntary basis. We also know that this is an activity of great risk, made in sacrifice of the very safety, of the free and family time of each one and therefore we can only be infinitely grateful to these men and women. But gratitude does not pay the bills at the end of the month, it does not solve the problem of who, during these functions and activities, suffers accidents and is temporarily or, sometimes, permanently disabled for work, nor is it enough to recognize the fundamental role that volunteer firefighters play in the protection and safety of each and every one of us. Now, see who was also in the front line in response to the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 : firefighters. What would pay the accounts at the end of the month, what would respond to the difficulties of these men and women and what would contribute to the recognition of the voluntary firefighters, which are essential to the country—since the State, which should be the first responsible for civil protection, has resigned from doing so— would be adequate funding for the performance of these functions; it would be the resolution of the problem of the insurance of volunteer firefighters, which do not cover the risks of the functions; it would be the payment, in time and time, of the debts of the State by the services provided, which is not now happening, either near or far; it would be the responsibility to guarantee all the personal protective equipment to these men and women who were and continue to be in line in front of the fight against the pandemic; it would be the payment of the service provided in that response to the pandemic. The Left Block has long argued that the State cannot continue to relinquish its responsibilities in civil protection and to leave all risks to firemen. The State must recognize that this is not a volunteering like the others and must guarantee the professionalization of this sector and all security conditions, including support and incentives, to whom it would also want to contribute voluntarily to the protection and security of society. Because it is fair to recognise to these men and women their surrender and effort in behalf of others, we follow the proposals, which are on the table, guaranteeing equal treatment, which seek to restore the exemption from the IRS tax of compensation and subsidies relating to the activity of volunteer firefighters who were wrongly withdrawn in the 2017 State Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u311	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party recognizes and values volunteering, in particular all the volunteer firefighters in Portugal who serve our country with delivery and service to the next, often at risk of their own life. In our fight against the pandemic, since the first hour and as always, we have all checked the ready response and the fundamental action of firefighters and even the various forms of volunteering in general. The measures that encourage and support volunteering are just and, at this difficult and demanding moment for firefighters, we share the need to continue to motivate peacekeepers and to pursue the path that the Government has already taken—and it is good to remember and point out here—with Decree-Law No 64 / 2019, which enshrines the allocation of social benefits to firefighters. As regards the legislative initiatives that we consider, it is considered that they are based on some misconceptions and also that, with their approval at the moment, they could be impermissible by breach of Article 167 (2). the Constitution, which determines that Members and parliamentary groups cannot present initiatives involving the increase in expenditure or the decrease in revenue provided for in the State budget. With the approval of these proposals, as they are, that is what would happen, violating the Constitution. the preamble to the Proposal for a Law on Firefighters' IRS also finds that the interpretation of the provisions of Law No 53 / 2013 for amendment to Article 12 ( 7 ). the IRS Code is not correct. In fact, the non-incidence foreseen here does not refer to all the voluntary activity of firemen, because, as has already been recognised, only the subsidies and compensation granted by the National Civil Protection Authority, municipalities and inter-municipal communities and paid by their firebomb holders » in certain situations of the firefighting device, in particular in the protection and relief in the Serra da Estrela. These are topical situations, therefore, the assumption that in 2013 there was a law that exempts firefighters' income from taxation in voluntary service. It is also not true that the 2017 State Budget has replaced or aggravated the taxation of compensation and subsidies allocated to firefighters in firefighting situations. Article 72 ( 17 ). the IRS Code aims at only the situation of firefighters in voluntary activities, such as event assistance, football games, etc. — in which gratifications are attributed, distributed by firefighter corporations and then by firefighters, and it is only for those who have created the specific tax regime. thus Article 72 ( 17 ). the IRS Code does not contradict Article 12 ( 7 ). the same Code, but before granting a more favourable tax regime in relation to the return of the volunteer activity of firefighters, than the fight against forest fires. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the NAP proposal, it must be said that it may have implications for the recently revised firefighter social support system and should be considered taking into account multiple factors beyond the treatment of firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u313	Mr President, it has already exceeded the time available, so it must end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u314	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Any change in the rules on access to pension by volunteer firefighters should not be enacted in a gross, incoherent and fragmented manner from a global perspective, either from the system of access to retirement pensions in its entirety or from the system of social support for firefighters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u315	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u316	Mr President, I intend to make the final statement. The Socialist Party believes that both initiatives have good intentions, but not enough intention. The moment, the assumptions and the normative body in which they are based, of course, on matters of constitutionality, do not appear to us as the most appropriate and correct ones to continue the motivation and valorization of the volunteer firemen we want to pursue and implement, so we are open to suggestions in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u317	Mr President, what a final statement! Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before an initiative of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to amend, within IRS, the taxation made to the gratifications that firefighters receive during their voluntary work period, to which the NAP has associated. from our point of view, often more than speeches to heighten firefighters, it is clear that the way they are treated fiscally, how it benefits, or not, the volunteering from the fiscal point of view is that it has an impact. So, on our part, there is all openness to these initiatives. It remains to be added that the NAP, in addition to the tax issue, also talks about the reform and counting of time for reform. I believe that we must deepen this matter, which of course we can do in the field of expertise. It is also in the field of specialty that I suggest that something be done about the law-work—and this is no longer the first time we have talked about this issue today. In fact, we cannot add expenditure or adopt rules that involve more spending for the current year without a new budgetary instrument. But as — by coincidence or perhaps not — next week will bring in a supplementary or amending budget, on the basis of the political notion that it is intended to have, but which, in any event, legally, is a budgetary review law, it seems to me to be clear that there we can solve this problem of labour law. It is enough for these proposals to go down to the committee, with or without a vote, and each party will do what is necessary, in the field of expertise, to enable them to be made viable, and then we will be able to correct this and other matters. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u319	To close the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to what has been the different comments on this proposal, I should like to mention here, of course, the question raised by the PSD, a fair concern about the sustainability of public finances, which I am sure that the PSD also accompanies us in what is a fair concern with the demands of firefighters and, in this sense, repays the question. What is important to realize is how much the State saves by sending to the front line of the combat volunteer firefighters, people who are not professionalized, rather than having the necessary and fundamental means to combat fires. I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, of the 42,000 firefighters in our country, 87% are voluntary firefighters. But on this side of the coin, the PS, for example, does not speak. However, we are talking about the labour law as if, in fact, there were no exceptions to the legislative process carried out by this House, in which it is perfectly possible to address this concern in any way. And having Mrs Cecilia Meireles say that very soon we will have the Reform Budget here, it will be exactly in that seat that we will be able to fill all these matters that are on the table and that cause concern. But we can't forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the self-denial these volunteers have shown in our country, because they are going out on the street. What the PS, or the government, will do on the day the volunteer firefighters say: « You will fight the fires because we do not leave home! "? Are you the gentlemen going? Oh, my God! In fact, there is a structural problem in our country with regard to the fight against fires. When, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the populations needed to deliver essential food or medicines there, these men and women who went out and quickly responded. Mr Nuno Sá recently noted that peacekeepers quickly responded. Well, what we're asking for, sirs. Members, this is the same speed in the revocation of a measure contained in the State budget for 2017, which was to withdraw from the exemption plan the question of voluntary firefighters and consequently in the fair replacement of that exemption, within IRS. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the field of expertise, we are available for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u321	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u322	I'm done now, Mr. President. But there must also be a serious effort on the part of the Socialist Party and the other political forces to look at these demands, on the difficulties that firefighters face in the fight against flames, one of which is, even, having a decent meal in those days. So we're talking about quite serious issues for these people and they can't be underestimated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u323	Concluding the joint assessment of the Bill No. 15 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRM ) and draft Law No 413 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), and before communicating the agenda by tomorrow, Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will make an announcement to the plenary. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u324	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to point out to the Members who were present, by video conference, at today's plenary meeting: Members of the PS João Azevedo Castro, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and Paulo Porto, elected by the electoral circle outside Europe, and Member of the PSD Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-06.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow's next plenary meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on the agenda, in the first item, an urgent debate called for by the BE Parliamentary Group on climate justice and crisis exit. In the second point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 604 / XIII / 4. a (Sérgio Garcia et al.) — They call for measures to be taken to end wage inequalities in private social security institutions, together with Bill No. 376 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Update of the Cooperation Commitment concluded with social and solidarity sector entities in a value covering the costs of increased guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration and other factors such as inflation and with Resolution Projects Nos 259 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By increasing support for Integrated Continuous Care Units, 283 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government daily increases in Integrated Continued Care Units of the National Integrated Care Network, 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote a study on the financing of the IPSS that ends with the chronic sub-financing of the sector, heed regional modulation in order to correct existing asymmetries and promote the harmonization of professional careers in the IPSS, 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the flexibility of the financing line « Social Investment Credit » and 482 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Promotes equality and values the wages of IPSS workers. At the third point, we will appreciate Petition No 613 / XIII / 4. a [ National Union of Workers of Local and Regional Administration, Public Companies, Dealers and Affins (STAL) ] — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the application of the supplement of health, penosity and risk, together with, in general, the Projects of Law No. 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the criteria for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under risk conditions, penosity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June – General Public Works Act ), 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( Tenth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June - General Public Works Act ), 398 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Allocation of compensation in addition to pay supplements for work performed under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 General Labour Act in Public Functions), 399 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Application of the risk supplement, penosity and insanity ( Amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 General Labour Act in Public Functions), and 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Regulates the supplements of compensation and other royalties of risk, pesosity and insanity (Twelfth Sixth Amendment to the General Law on Public Works). The fourth point is draft resolution No 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Assessment of the implementation of the state of emergency, declared by Decree of the President of the Republic No 14 -A / 2020 of 18 March, not having been allocated time for discussion. In the end, there will be a regiment vote. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 57 minutes.]]
