ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 9 hours and 37 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities opening the gates of the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we should start our work with the current debate required by the CDS-PP on the country's response to the coronary virus — COVID-19, but the Minister of Health is slightly late, so I think that, if all agreed, it would be good to start with the second item on the agenda, otherwise our work will end very late. The second point concerns the general joint assessment of Bill Nos 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters (first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April) and 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the composition of the National Firefighters Council, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, I will give the floor to the fireman of the Left Block, who is present, to present his own initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u2	Mr President, if I may, I ask you only one minute to prepare the intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u3	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Therefore, if the Minister of Health arrives in the meantime, we begin with the current debate. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, is there a problem if the NAP is the first to present its own initiative?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u4	No, no, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u5	Mr President, I am sorry, but we are not yet in a position to begin.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u6	Oh, isn't he? Oh, my God! So, let's wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u7	I can ask the questions now, Mr President! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u8	Depending on whom to get first — PAN, Left Block or Government — we will start the work. [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares is already in a position to submit Bill No. 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April), for which you have the floor, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u9	Mr President, first of all, I appreciate the waiting time. We were not prepared for this amendment on the agenda, from then on, which was useful for us to prepare ourselves. The Left Block has scheduled this debate in order to change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters and with a very simple intention, which is to enable the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters in this National Council. This debate, not being new in the Assembly of the Republic, because there are initiatives coming from the past legislature, is relevant. As many people say that firefighters are already represented in the National Firefighters Council, because of their presence through the Portuguese Firefighters League, the truth is that the League represents much more the humanitarian associations of firefighters than the volunteer firefighters. It is therefore to repair this situation, to correct it and to improve this representativeness that we bring this bill to debate. I want to make it clear that this initiative is not against anyone! One of the first aspects which, in the political debate of this kind of initiative, tends to be placed is whether it is against someone. It is not against anyone, it is in favour of a decent representation of firefighters professionals in the National Firefighters Council, and I believe that against this intention no one can be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u10	As long as the NAP is not in a position to present its own initiative, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Given the current situation and the fact that one project is currently being presented and another one is about to present, the PSD will already take its position as it already knows them. There is one or two things that I find important to declare right now. Voluntary firemen are, as we all know, often the first to be called whenever there are problems in Portugal. Voluntary firemen are a large part of our civil protection force in all of the country's councils. This too is, therefore, a moment of tribute to the volunteer firemen, who have been so often called and so many times will be called, unfortunately, to help the Portuguese. in this house, for more than once we discussed measures of support to volunteer firefighters, which are often forgotten by government entities and also, often, by society itself, because they are all dressed equally, but the truth is that volunteers are always there. They have their own lives, they have their profession, but when it comes to gathering, they are the first to say "present" and are often the first to come. What is at stake here is whether or not to have an acknowledgement at the National Council of Firefighters of volunteer firefighters. It is true that the League of Portuguese Bombers already represents the humanitarian associations in this Council, it is true that the National Association of Professional Firefighters already represents the professional firefighters in this Council, but it is time for Parliament to discuss whether there should also be a direct representation of the volunteers, men and women who perform their duties, and not only of their humanitarian associations, who in some way end up representing them. Therefore, the PSD position is in order to enable this debate. For us, these initiatives can go down to committee, to hear a number of entities and — who knows? Oh, my God! — the Observatory supporting the Assembly of the Republic on the relevance of this and not another association to join the National Firefighters Council. Everything this House can do to recognize volunteer firefighters and their importance must be understood as a tribute to those men and women who leave their families to take care of our own. The Assembly must always be with the firemen, respect them and, as far as possible, protect them. This is our position, Mr President: we are available for the next debate, particularly in the field of expertise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u12	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no way to disagree about the bills that are currently under discussion. In fact, it is proposed that the National Firefighters Council should also become a member of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters, and this makes sense, because indeed, the Portuguese Firefighters League represents the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters, which provide invaluable service to the country. It happens that, as has already been said, the League represents the associations, it does not represent the firefighters individually considered. We know that there are several different firefighter bodies, we know that there is an association that represents professional firefighters, that is, those who belong to non-voluntary firefighters bodies, including the Special Firefighters Force and firefighters who belong to municipalities, but in fact there is this large universe of volunteer firefighters who have a representation, which is precisely this Portuguese Association of Voluntary Firefighters. They are firefighters who not only do not carry out their firefighter activity at all times, have another professional activity and are voluntary firefighters, but also — and I call attention to this — firefighters who, being volunteer firefighters, professionally develop their firefighter activity in humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters. These firefighters are in fact represented in this Association which proposes to join the National Firefighters Council. So it makes sense, it is a representation that is relevant to take place. I greet Mr Duarte Marques for the intervention he has just done, raising the role of firefighters. I would only say that your speech, Mr President, and do not hurt me, is slightly overstepped when it refers to the need to hold a set of hearings on this matter. I think it makes sense to make hearings on firefighter-related matters, but this is such a simple matter that I think we can solve it in the field of specialty, without the need for a wide range of hearings. We can leave the hearings for another time, until the moment we are going through is not very conducive to audiences with many people, since this problem can certainly be easily solved in the specialty, it is a relatively simple matter. This is a problem that we can solve now, we still have many others to solve, related to firefighters, and we hope to find the opportunity to do so within a time limit that is not too long, but we do not need this legislative process to wait for the resolution of other problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u14	To submit Bill No. 203 / XIV / 1. a — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April) of the NAP, now yes, has the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project we bring here, which aims to change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, seems to us to establish justice for the participation of all firefighters in this Council. We know the importance of it and therefore I would like to highlight here some of its competences that justify the relevance of the presence of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters. The National Firefighters Council therefore issues opinions on support programmes to be allocated to humanitarian firefighters' associations and firefighters' bodies; defines general criteria to be observed in the training actions of firefighters' personnel; defines general criteria to be observed in the creation of new firefighter bodies and their respective sections, as well as their verification in particular; defines internal regulation of firefighter bodies; defines rules of obedience for firefighters' equipment and equipment, with a view to technical standardization of activities, among a number of other aspects relevant to the activity of these professionals, which we all here, of course, recognize as important in our society. The Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters was founded in November 2005 and has as its main objective the congregation and representation of volunteer firefighters in Portugal, in particular the interests of its associates and the defense of the code of ethics of the class of volunteer firefighters. Therefore, taking into account the competences of the National Firefighters Council, we believe that the presence of this Association in the Council is essential because of its tasks it may make fundamental contributions. The NAP is available to discuss these projects in the field of specialty, if they understand it, because the important thing is to ensure that all firefighters and all firefighters in Portugal are represented in this National Council. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u16	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Eurídice Pereira now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today to discuss two legislative initiatives aimed at the inclusion of a 12. the member in the National Council of Firefighters : the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters. Gender initiatives have already entered this Parliament in a not very distant past; two have expired and, before, in 2017, one has not won maturity. From a material point of view, the proponents base their initiative on the nature of the tasks of the National Council of Firefighters, stating that the same is, and I quote, «a consultative body of the Government and of the National Civil Protection Authority in the various matters relating to the Portuguese firefighters ». In fact, in accordance with Article 19. the Decree-Law No. 45 / 2019, the National Firefighters Council is an advisory body exclusively of the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority and not also of the Government, as previously foreseen, regarding firefighter activity. The current composition of the National Firefighters Council includes representatives of Portuguese firefighters, including the president of the Portuguese Firefighters League and the president of the National Association of Professional Firefighters. It is advised to take this approach to extend the framework vision. In fact, the legal status of the Portuguese Bombers League and its role is conferred on it by various legal diplomas, in particular by Article 45. the Law No. 32 / 2007, which approved the legal regime of humanitarian firearms associations, confers on it a high degree of representation of the sector. In this regard, it is recalled, for example, that the League is heard in negotiating collective working conventions applicable to humanitarian firefighters' associations and professional firefighters held by humanitarian firefighters. Therefore, it is true that the Portuguese firefighters have two representatives in the Council, a total of 10 members. It is also true that the political-legislative option for the composition of the Council does not have so much time—in favour of the truth, it has not yet been one year. Now, with complete openness — I repeat, with complete openness — we ask whether it is justified to deepen the knowledge of the representativeness of the Portuguese Volunteers' Association and, consequently, to examine whether the proposals have been welcomed for the purpose of defining, in particular, the meaning of any amendments to be introduced in the legislative order. Our answer is that we believe that yes and we have complete availability for this approach in Parliamentary committee. Here, I would leave a note of agreement with Mr Duarte Marques: it is necessary to obtain, in fact, some opinions. I shall finish, Mr President, with a word of appreciation and recognition to all the Portuguese firefighters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u18	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u19	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said by several Members of various boards, the discussion we are having is very simple and has to do with the composition of the National Council of Firefighters and the representativeness of firefighters in this Council. It must be said that the question is not quantitative. Firefighters have a lot of representativeness in the National Firefighters Council is obvious and logical. Regardless of the National Firefighters Council, it is an advisory instrument of the national authority belonging to the Administration of the State, of course, that the main civil protection agents, the firefighters deserve, in this context, all representation and dignity. The issue is to know who the firefighters represent so as to be able in this Council to make the desired contribution. The changes that have existed in the structure of firefighters in Portugal have motivated several changes. For example, a few years ago, it was difficult to consider that the National Association of Professional Firefighters, through the Trade Union of Professional Firefighters, with the humanitarian associations, regarding the professional status of firefighters who are, in fact, professionals of these associations, because they are waged and perform their functions permanently in these firefighter bodies. What must also be considered is whether the representation of the Portuguese Firearms League — which has always been a global representation of the Portuguese firefighters, not only of the humanitarian associations and their directions but also of the firefighter bodies of each of these associations — today, continuing to be, must be exclusive or must be complemented by the representativeness of the firefighters, individually, through their association. This is a relevant discussion, which has already been held in the past. It does not only have to do with the institutional and organic issue, it also has to do with the representativeness that each of these institutions effectively have. This is a discussion to have in the specialty. We welcome the fact that these initiatives could be brought down to the Commission without a vote because this will allow for a thorough discussion and a more informed decision on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u21	To close the debate, since there are no more entries, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It seems to me that it has been clear from the speeches that have been made on this issue, that it is justified, yes, and that this amendment makes all the sense. Indeed, it makes no sense that this advisory body of ANPC (National Civil Protection Authority) has not represented the volunteer firefighters and the volunteer firefighters of this country, who are so many men and women who work for our safety and protection. It is an advisory body with 11 entities, but which leaves out this entity which represents precisely these men and women. This entity, however, has already collaborated with the legislative process, with the creation of public policies, through the issuance of opinions, of valuable contributions, because they derive from knowledge of the terrain and knowledge of the specific characteristics, needs, but also of the potential of these men and women, firefighters and firefighters. So it makes all the sense. This knowledge makes this entity an invaluable partner and should not continue to be disregarded. I would also like to point out that the opinions we have already received, both in past legislation, when projects were presented in the same sense, as the two that we have now received, that of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and that of the National Association of Professional Firefighters, are in favour of this inclusion. In principle, there is no one against, it does not move anyone, it makes no sense that they continue not to be part of this advisory body. In the Block on the Left, we consider it to be of all justice, and of the interest of all, that the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters has presence and permanent place in this advisory body. Of course, we believe that, in the field of specialty, we can consult everyone who, eventually, still lacks and succeeds what may be missing. We are open to this possibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u23	We will now move on to the first point of our agenda, with the current debate required by the CDS-PP, on the country's response to the coronary virus — COVID-19. To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u24	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I would like to say, first of all, in relation to this matter and the fight against this epidemic, that the CDS always said that it would have a position of responsibility, of a sense of State, and, of course, we maintain that position of responsibility and of a sense of State. Yesterday, early in the morning, even after Mr. Prime Minister's statement, we realized that there was a change of attitude and a rise in the degree of responsibility to deal with this situation. What I wanted to say is that, in the face of Mr Prime Minister's call for union, the CDS does not run away from this call, but of course, if we do not run away from that call, we also demand determination. And it is important that, in addition to that determination, we have the notion that mistakes have been made in the past and in the recent past. In our opinion, Mrs Minister, several mistakes have been made, the main of which was that for some time, we will devalue the seriousness of this situation. And the CDS was saying it! We did not control flights when we should have done so — indeed, flights to Italy were cancelled almost one month after such a power was made. The contingency plan arrived two and a half months after this epidemic. They were not immediately strengthened, Mrs. Minister, neither the human resources, nor the health professionals and, of course, understanding up to the difficulties, the Health Line 24 did not work, entered into collapse. I wonder how in some cases the Health Line 24 may have given different indications in relation to citizens who have come from very high-risk areas and from contamination, Community and endemic areas. How is it possible for the Health Line 24 to have said'make your life normal', possibly creating some of the contagio chains? Mr. Minister, in our opinion, we are wasting time. Obviously, I am not going to speak to you in the communication that has been made and that, in many cases, has been completely erratic. We welcome the decisions now taken, but note that the CDS had proposed, at the beginning of the week, the closure of schools and what we attended was one day at an extensive press conference in which, in addition to the personal complaints of the Director-General of Health - and I am not talking about it - the conclusion was that it was not necessary to close schools and the next day the government decided 'we'll close all schools', and well, it should have already been decided before. But we're not going to talk about this anymore, we're not going to keep insisting on that point, we're going to talk about, not yesterday, but tomorrow and what we have to be ready for, and we may have to come face-to-face. From that point of view, Mrs Minister, there are a number of concrete questions that I would like to ask you. Mr Minister, one of the possible mistakes in this area is, I say, not to test - I ask you if you agree. Are we, or are we not, able to extend and test more suspicious cases, how do we stop this contagion? I also ask what assurance the Minister can give us in terms of support for health professionals, a matter of the greatest importance. We have heard complaints—and I ask how well-founded or not—from health professionals who are on the front line without enough protective equipment, without getting them that protective equipment. Mr. Minister, can you or will you not guarantee that the stock is sufficient? Can you assure us that health professionals will not be without the necessary health equipment to face a possible peak in the coming weeks of this epidemic? Ms.Minister announced 81 professionals, I believe that even related to the Health Line 24. Question : How many professionals will enter? How many professionals will strengthen the National Health Service (NSS) to combat this epidemic? Are we, or are we not, about this epidemic, to get rid of the captives of the Minister of Finance and to ensure that there will be no serious reinforcement in this fight? Recently, Dr. Filipe Froes, referring to the number of beds, said we cannot confuse theoretical availability and practical capacity. Question, Mrs Minister : how many beds will we have and how many beds will be effectively available from the, I think, about 200 isolation beds and the more than 1500 intensive care beds that have been mentioned? What guarantees can this House, and the country, of course, give in relation to this matter? Looking at the example of other countries and hoping that the most serious one will not happen in Portugal — the situation can be complex, this is inevitable — we also know, Mrs Minister, that there is a critical factor in the most serious cases, which has to do with ventilation. I would like to know what the country's ventilatory availability is, what capacity and what measures will be taken to ensure that all the country's ventilation capacity will be available in a more critical situation, including using the social sector and the private sector, if that is the case and that is the need. On the other hand, Madam Minister, would it not make sense, as the Order of Doctors has already said, to create own hospitals only for this matter, to the north, to the center, to the south? That's another question I'll leave you with, too. If this is an emergency, how will it resist and how will it respond, in future, to the National Health Service that is now, and well, to cancel surgeries and anything that is not urgent? What effect will this have on the future and how will we get out of this most urgent situation?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u25	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u26	I really am concluding, Mr President. I would also like to ask what assurances we have regarding the Health Line 24, what will be done and what changes will be made. Don't you think we could take more serious measures in terms of borders? What is the prospect of mobilising European funds?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u27	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u28	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I would like to know, above all, Mrs Minister, whether or not we will be able to control this curve, which we have all seen every day in several graphs and avoid the most serious situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u29	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time by almost 1 minute. However, soon you will have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u30	I conclude by saying, Madam Minister, that we expect determination and adhere to the national union necessary to combat this severe pandemic. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u31	You have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health, which I use to greet and wish for a good day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u32	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. at this time, it is known that the pandemic situation was decreed on 11 March. Yesterday, the Government listened to all parties and at this moment thanks everyone for their collaboration, open dialogue and availability to work. Days of enormous effort are coming near for all health professionals, for all Portuguese, for all those who take responsibility. I'm sure we can count on everyone. at this moment, our availability here is to provide the due clarifications. I would like to thank Mr Telmo Correia for his reservations, taking advantage of the time we all have, to respond at the end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u33	Mrs. Minister, for clarification Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, we have a few more concrete questions to make that they do not fully cover Mr Telmo Correia's speech and that, I think, they reflect the concern of the people at home who are, eventually, listening to us later until yesterday's announcement. The first question has to do with borders. The CDS strongly insisted that there be some control, for example, at airports, especially in relation to flights which, at the time, came from Italy and the same thing in relation to cruise terminals. However, the situation of cruise terminals was resolved through the package of measures announced yesterday by the Government, but there is still, in relation to airports — not now in Italy for obvious reasons — flights from particularly affected countries, and I am thinking of France and Spain. I would like to know whether there will be control at the airports or whether we will simply continue with all flights arriving in Lisbon, the port or the Faro without any control and without any guarantee of oversight of the people coming from those countries. Mrs. Minister, we are also concerned about the area of public transport. People do not have confidence, they do not have full assurance that transport is at this time a safe way to move around in their cities, to make the routes they still have to do. What is being done to ensure that public transport is not a contagion focus, which, of course, would in normal circumstances be? I would also like to ask you, Minister, about medical care. What is right now in people's heads and what concerns them is the following: the contagio chains have become more complex, more and more each of us knows a person who in turn has been with another person who is infected or in possible case of contagion. This will lead to an additional weight on the SNS 24 Line, which is already overloaded and unable to respond, and at the moment the government continues to point people to that line. So the probability of more and more waiting calls, paid, for 40, 45 minutes, and unanswered calls will increase. What will be done in particular, knowing that from today on there will be more and more calls? Doctors also tell us that when they use this line either to the line of support for their own doctors so they can be allowed to apply a test kit, they also have a long wait. For this reason, doctors ask the government to allow those responsible for the area of infection themselves to apply the tests when they understand that the criteria are met. Will this possibility be agile? Can the Minister assure us here today, all of us, that there will be no lack of kits, that no people will be left without being tested for lack of kits? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u35	Mr. Secretary of State Duarte Lamber asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u36	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u37	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u38	Mr President, I would like to ask the Parliamentary Group of the CDS if it does not bother that, on a matter of time management, the Government answers at the end, because probably more questions will still be asked during the debate. Although the CDS has made a request for clarification directly to the Minister, I would like to know if it is not uncomfortable that we make this time management.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u39	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u40	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, no, we do not bother with anything, as it is obvious. We realize that the government has little time. The CDS has already left — even though one or two are still missing — a huge number of questions to which the Government will answer later. What is important is that you answer and that the country be clarified. So we don't have any drawbacks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u41	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u42	We're going into the intervention period. Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: All we have to do to be one step ahead of the coronavirus and this has to be a moment of union. Everything has to be done to save lives. This is a matter of life or death. Dramatic reports of my Italian medical colleagues arrive every day. They have come to the point of publishing written recommendations with rules to decide who lives and who dies due to lack of access to intensive care beds. I read only two recommendations, to understand what we are talking about: "It may be necessary to establish an age limit for access to intensive care" and "beyond age, the presence of other diseases needs to be evaluated(...) and a relatively short treatment in healthier people may take longer and consume more resources in the case of older and weaker patients. Do not keep on seeking. ” This is the daily dilemma that lives in Italy: choose between a man 50 years old and two children and a diabetic woman with three children, who has to let himself die to allow the man to live. Portugal cannot be objectively another Italy. We must therefore give our full support to the government for the measures it needs to take, including buying all the possible fans that are currently on the market already very saturated with demand. We have 1400 beds with fans and we can have 20,000 Portuguese people need access to beds with fans. We can't get to the point of having to decide between who lives and who dies. To do this, we have to buy the fans and we have to test as many people as possible to know who is objectively infected. More: at this time of emergency, we must ensure that all professionals are mobilized and have all personal protective equipment. The Government will have all our support for all the measures it needs to do so. They are also called upon to university medical students — they are more than 3000 and are trained to support telephone lines and health services — nursing, pharmacy, military. We need everyone! These doctors, these nurses, these health professionals are our heroes of modern life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u45	at this moment, they are going to hospitals and health centers with fear—afraid because they are facing an unknown enemy, afraid because they can infect their relatives when they get home. They're scared, but they don't stop going. They will therefore count on us to find all the means and we must ensure that the government has all the means to respond. The country, Portugal is in a state of war against the coronavirus. This is not a time for political evaluation, this is not a time for debate between parties. This is the time, for the PSD, for all of us, to join together. We must clearly and unequivocally support all the difficult measures that were announced last night by the Government and that will have to be enforced in order to give the necessary answer to an unprecedented challenge in our contemporary history. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The only vaccine we have against the coronavirus is information and knowledge, the only treatment we have is to postpone as much as possible the maximum number of cases. Delaying the coronavirus saves lives, particularly those of the oldest, the most vulnerable, our grandparents, our uncles, our parents. It is our duty to save those who have done so much for all of us. So I leave a sense of appeal to each of the Portuguese: cancel everything! Cancel the scheduled exit, stay at home; cancel the trip to the beach, stay at home; cancel the party, cancel the conference, cancel the wedding, the baptized, the bachelor party. Cancel everything! Cancel everything, cancel everything and stay at home! When you stay at home, you're delaying the coronavirus. while staying at home, it ensures that there is another doctor, there is another nurse, there is another bed available for our grandparents, for our older relatives, for all those who will need a hospital. This is very simple, this is very important! Cancel everything and stay at home! For those who have done so much for us, for Portugal, for all of us, please cancel everything and stay at home! [[PSD's applause, standing members, IL's and PS's.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u46	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the seriousness of the moment requires all serenity, but it also requires responsibility. After the World Health Organization declared a pandemic this week, after the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control recommended caution to States, I believe that we should not ignore and waste the opportunity to be once again in this plenary. After last week, Mr. Prime Minister brought the topic of the coronary virus to the 15-year debate and the Minister of Health and the Director-General of Health had been inexhaustible in contact with the population, information and reporting here in the Assembly of the Republic today, what is required is that we also highlight the measures taken yesterday. The measures taken yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they may even harm each one of us's daily lives, but they are absolutely essential, because they are appropriate, proportionate and necessary at the time we live today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] what we are dealing with is an worsening of the public health scenario seen in recent days, and therefore this serious scenario cannot, should not be neglected by any of us, here and outside. We are all aware that the particular moment in which we live has demanded these measures. And these measures, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have not yet been mentioned, demand, first of all, the best vaccine we have today in front of the unknown. And the best vaccine is information and knowledge, it's information and awareness, it's prevention, it's caution, it's to explain to people that we're not facing any situation, we're facing an exceptional situation that requires all of us to have our own responsibility in the fight that is jointly imposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Measures have been taken within the framework of the National Health Service and what a good thing it is to be in the plenary of the Portuguese Parliament and we can say that we are of the few countries that have a good National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The measures that have been adopted over the past few months have been added to other measures yesterday — measures in the field of the autonomy of the hiring of more professionals, measures to facilitate the hiring of services, measures to strengthen our Health Line 24, i.e. measures that follow the Government's appeal to strengthen the National Health Service. I would like to highlight here all the health professionals who are now called, but also those who have jointly made themselves available to help fight this scourge. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, social cohesion measures have also been taken, because we want to protect families, give families conditions to stay with their families at home, provide conditions for social cohesion and solidarity among all. Measures have also been taken to enable the economy to function and, as a result, unemployment does not increase and jobs do not end, but people's work can be guaranteed to ensure that life can continue within normal conditions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, more than ever, we need not partisan complaints but the cohesion and solidarity of all, and so I want to heighten the great consensus that was reached yesterday with the parliamentary seats parties so that we are all united in this fight. But this is not a fight that only has national responses, it has to have European responses and Europe, more than ever, cannot fail again as it has failed in other crises, it has to be united, cohesion and solidarity in the answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end with a sincere appeal to everyone out there and to everyone in here: each of us, each family, should now have its contingency plan and should know exactly what to do and what not to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u49	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, now, more than ever, we need solidarity, cohesion, everyone's responsibility to fight this virus, and I am sure that we will defeat it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u50	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u51	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The pandemic caused by the new coronavirus will be a hard and prolonged battle, that no one will be wrong about it. We will be better off, as a country, in this battle because of our capacity as a community, to adopt, or not, the public health measures necessary for the containment of this virus. We will leave - we will be better, as Country, in this battle if we are able to strengthen the response of the National Health Service to take care of all people who eventually become infected. at this moment, the first word of the Left Block Parliamentary Group is, as it should be, for all health professionals. For public health professionals who are doing tireless work; for professionals who are in laboratories doing tireless work; for workers of INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) and of the entire medical emergency device; for all SNS professionals, from hospitals to primary health care. We know that these professionals have always been indispensable and, today, more than ever. We mean that we fully and fully trust all of them and that we appreciate the work and dedication they have and that they will perform in the coming times. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The second word is to emphasize the very important role that each and every one of us has to play in this epidemic. Each and every one of us can be an agent to break the transmission, to prevent the evolution of the disease. Together we can protect ourselves as a community and we must adopt the recommendations of the Directorate-General for Health: the hygiene of our hands; the respiratory label; the social distance; avoid clustering; call the SNS line 24 if we have symptoms; do not expose others to risk. We know that, in a time of technological sophistication, these simple rules may seem little, but that no one has any doubt that these simple gestures are of the most effective that there is, and we have to adopt them on a daily basis. If we do, we protect ourselves, our own and the community. If each one does his part, we will be stronger in community to meet this challenge. Madam Minister, we will deal better with the epidemic if we already strengthen the National Health Service and its response capacity, and we must do so immediately. We know that the National Health Service is a protective factor of the Portuguese population, we know that we are much more protected than countries that do not have a public and universal health service, but we also know that the tendency of the epidemic is a rapid growth and a growth that will exist. Therefore, the response of the National Health Service should also be this way, i.e., of growth and a rapid growth response, too. Yesterday, the government announced several measures, some in the area of health, and we want to take advantage of this debate to add others, which will become inconsequential as the epidemic grows. The immediate mobilization of all reformed health professionals, of all internal physicians and of all medical students is needed to strengthen, for example, the SNS 24 Line, the Medical Support Line and the monitoring of people under surveillance. It is necessary to require professionals, means and facilities to the private sector to strengthen the number of professionals and the ability to receive and provide care from the National Health Service. The immediate autonomy of all public health institutions is required to hire professionals and buy the materials that are needed on a daily basis and adapt their responses. The time we live does not coincide with bureaucracy; it is a quick and immediate response that we need. It is necessary to limit exports of personal protective equipment. Companies which in Portugal have the capacity to produce such personal protective equipment only under the express authorization of the Government must export such equipment. These equipment are needed in the SNS, are needed for our health professionals, to protect our health professionals who will be on the front line. Therefore, these equipment cannot be exported. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are proposals that we bring to the debate. We know that they will become inconsequential when the epidemic grows, but we know that they have to be adopted now, not in the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u52	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We face a moment of great complexity and uncertainty, considering the existing scientific evidence, but being aware of all that is still unknown from the scientific community about the coronavirus. A moment that requires everything to be done to fight COVID-19. The National Health Service is fundamental in this battle, we would even say that it is essential and the central instrument to assist the population, to treat, to combat the outbreak. Sensitize, inform, prevent, yes. Strengthening the capacity of the SNS is absolutely strategic and decisive in this fight we face in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u55	We have no doubt that, if the National Health Service did not exist and the provision of health care was entirely in the hands of the private sector, the State would be hostage to private groups and had no means or instruments to intervene in this situation. The insurers soon came to the public saying that health insurance did not cover outbreak situations. If there were no National Health Service, in the event of an outbreak, those with economic conditions would be able to have access to health care, but those who had not been left to their fate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u57	hence the importance of the existence of public health services that ensure the access of everyone to health. Preparing the country for any scenario, ensuring the tranquillity of workers and the population, providing safety to health professionals in the performance of their duties should be the priority. We bear in mind that it is a time of enormous requirement for the SNS, because, in addition to putting the response to the outbreak, it has to ensure the care activity to all other situations of disease that arise every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u59	Regardless of the numbers of beds or rooms with negative pressure available that have come to the public, significant part will surely be occupied. Therefore it is necessary to find solutions from now on to increase bed capacity in intensive care, to increase the ventilator response, to increase the isolation response. For example, we leave this suggestion here: are you going, or not, to take advantage of the existing infrastructure of the Pulido Valente Hospital? Solutions and answers are needed for any eventuality. 15 days ago we questioned the government about simplification and speeding up of contracts. All conditionalisms must be removed for the acquisition of materials, protective equipment and medicines for all health centres and hospitals. It is also necessary to expedite procedures for hiring health professionals so that they are in the services, when necessary; to strengthen the hiring of health professionals for the Medical Support Line and for the Health Line 24 to solve the problem of calls, which remain unattended. Regarding the Health Line 24, it is also important to say the following: since last week that difficulties are identified and this line has been the privileged point of contact of users with the National Health Service. Therefore, the presence of more nurses in this line must be guaranteed. More: it is necessary to ensure the supply of medicines in Community pharmacies and to strengthen the means of transporting patients. We cannot waste the capacity installed in the Military Laboratory...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u60	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u61	... and therefore, from now on, the conditions must be created for, if necessary, it may produce medicines that are in stock rupture. The impacts of COVID-19 on the lives of all of us are in sight! The outbreak cannot be the pretext for attacking and weakening the SNS, nor for opportunisms from the emboldening of the economic crisis in order to increase exploitation, attack workers' rights, cut wages and even advance to layoffs. Workers must have their rights and income assured. workers in isolation, following their children, in disease or lay-off situations, should be guaranteed the payment of the salary at 100 %, such as income to self-employed persons, green receipts or in other situations of extreme precariousness, which see their activity reduced. The activities are suspended, but the household, energy, water accounts continue to have to be paid. I finish by leaving a word of appreciation and consideration of the Portuguese Communist Party to all health professionals—to doctors, nurses, technicians, technical assistants, medical action assistants. We value and recognize everyone's effort to treat patients and to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u62	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Health : in this current debate, The Greens want, first of all, to address a word of recognition and appreciation to all those men and women who are in line with this fight and, from the outset, to all the professionals of the National Health Service, as well as to all the firefighters and professionals of the National Institute of Medical Emergency who, together, are face-to-face in this battle. They are doing extraordinary, exemplary work, and it is necessary to underline how they are dealing with this serious threat that the coronavirus represents for all of us. It is a collective threat that comes, of course, to reinforce the need to be provided with a strong and robust National Health Service that is able to respond to Portuguese health problems on a daily basis, but also to situations like the one we are currently living. In fact, even though some people want to give, there is a data of which it is not possible to escape: it is that the more strengthened our National Health Service is the most suitable to respond to cases such as that of COVID-19. This is all the more true especially when we realize that we cannot count on the private sector, with health interests, to deal with problems of this nature and with the potential dimension that it can achieve. As, over the past few weeks, the Greens have already had the opportunity to point out, in our view, the best answer to the problem that the coronavirus represents for all of us must be based on the search for a balance between, on the one hand, not to facilitate in any way and at any of its angles and, on the other hand, the need or responsibility not to contribute to empower or encourage social alarm, which will certainly not help, on the other hand. This balance that needs to be found, in our perspective, will only be possible if we hear who knows, and who knows are the technicians, specialists and scientific knowledge, science. Therefore, we believe that the containment measures to be taken must have as minimum support the guidelines and recommendations of the health authorities, in particular the Directorate-General of Health, or at least be taken in conjunction with these entities. If it is true that no one has the magic formula to solve, so suddenly, a problem with similar gravity and complexity, whose scope, in fact, is manifestly unpredictable, it is also true that we will only have to win if we meet what the health authorities say. However, there is still a number of concerns, regardless of the guidelines of the health authorities, which the Greens believe the government can and should start to equating and guaranteeing. We are talking, for example, about the need to strengthen the means of prevention, especially of health professionals, who are people who are more closely dealing with the problem, and for these professionals there can be no lack of clinical material, of course, masks or facts appropriate to the requirements that the circumstances impose, not only so that these professionals can properly develop their work, but also to enable them to do so in safety and safeguarding their integrity and health. It is then necessary to ensure that there are no budgetary imperatives which, in any way or in any other way, prevent or delay the adoption of measures necessary to address this collective threat. We are talking, for example, about the opportunity to equalize the possibility of speeding up public procurement processes so that health services can, in a timely and timely manner, acquire the necessary means to respond to this serious problem. But it is also necessary to ensure that the people who work are not abused because of the measures being taken, either from a wage point of view or from the point of view of their rights. It is also necessary to ensure visible support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that are facing this serious threat. Finally, we also talk about the need, no less important, to revisit the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay ( LCPA ), in order to free the health sector from the scope of this law, so that health services can acquire the materials they need to respond to problems in general, and in particular to COVID-19, without having to use the Purchasing Centre and therefore to be able to do so with less bureaucracy and in a more timely manner. It is that, in the face of what we are living, time is not money, time is life and, with life, we cannot facilitate. Having said that, the Greens continue to be available to share information and monitor the development of the process with the Government in a collective effort, because the threat is also collective. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u64	Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u65	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are faced with a complex situation, which requires action, responsibility, determination, without facilitation or recklessness. Today, in this House, we all have an obligation to know that the mortality rate of this virus will be directly dependent on the social and political mechanisms and instruments that the country is capable of implementing. With the knowledge that we have today, there are political decisions that seem fundamental to us, of which we stand out three. From then on, report widely, insistently and asserts the entire population. It is essential that the message be understood by all people, regardless of their resources, their literacy, their individual and social characteristics. How will it be ensured that the information is passed efficiently to more vulnerable people, such as the elderly, and people at greater risk of social exclusion, such as people who are homeless or even inmates? How will it be ensured that it is understood, across all sectors, from people with specific needs to transport and mobility professionals, hairdressers, restoration, finally, by all who are in contact with the public? If we want everyone to have access to up-to-date information, it seems essential to us that government press conferences go through all public channels and not only on RTP3 and Antenna1. The second point we would like to bring here is the need to reduce all the risks of unnecessary contact, encouraging social isolation and the containment of non-essential convivial habits. in this sense, the restriction of access to public spaces seems fundamental to us, as well as the closure of school contexts, provided that the conditions of family care for children, telework and the maintenance of the jobs of education managers are guaranteed. Given the recent extraordinary measure of support for families with children up to 12 years of age, which we naturally welcome, what families are asking themselves today is how they will stay caring for their children, ensuring that they will also be able to meet their expenses, so it is necessary for the State to reassure them in this regard. Mrs. Minister, yesterday, 25 pre-school children were confined in Maia, for suspicion of infection, demonstrating that the virus does not choose age. The parents waited more than 5 hours for information. in these situations, communication is essential to ensure the feeling of security and reduce the emotional risk of parents. Can you tell us what happened in this situation? And knowing that here, as in other places, similar situations will happen, what psychosocial support resources are defined to act in these situations? Even on schools, Mrs Minister, we must disagree with Mr Education's statements regarding the presence of teachers and non-teachers in schools. We agree, of course, with essential services, but we do not understand why telework is not encouraged in a more assertive way. It is essential that all political decisions combine the need for social distance with policies to encourage distance work. at a time when technologies already allow it, this must be the great bet to ensure the isolation and safety of all professionals, whether they have children or not. Yesterday, in this House, the NAP has already sought to raise awareness of the importance of providing a responsible example for the country, transiting all possible situations for telework. We expect other parties to be able to accompany us in these concerns. I would also like to note that, at the time when it was declared a state of national alert, and knowing that the peak of this outbreak is still to come, this period will be of high demand for all, but in particular for health professionals. It is necessary to ensure the very rapid application in the health contexts of everything announced by the government, from the unburocratization of the purchase of materials to the hiring of professionals and the payment of extraordinary hours. It is essential that human and material resources exist, so that health professionals can exercise their work properly and safely. INEM will play a key role in this process, since it is the entity that contacts patients more directly and in the first line. Firefighters have also expressed their concerns in this matter. Therefore, we would like to know whether the concerns of INEM and firefighters will be safeguarded. Finally, Mrs. Minister, we know the worst is yet to come. We know that risks are too high, so everything can be done to contain the worsening of the current situation is fundamental. in this race against time, we have a common goal, save lives, and we cannot lose this focus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u66	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u67	What we expect from the government is focus, determination, assertiveness, responsibility, where life and health are, in fact, first of all. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u68	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: Ironically, tragically, today we're going to talk about people's life and health and I'm going to use numbers. These are figures summarizing the knowledge, much of the knowledge that has been obtained from the disease in the last two months, worked by me and which only hold me responsible. I hope I'm wrong, but I'm afraid I'm right. In health systems with response capacity, the mortality rate is about 1%; in those who break up, this mortality rate is 4%. The break-in line of our health system is about 20,000 infected. Yesterday, we had 78 official infections. Today we know the way and the scale with which this number underestimates the real infected: Portugal today will have no less than 1500 real infected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u70	Boatman!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u71	With the current transmission rate, we will reach the breaking line of our system within 20 days. With the measures adopted yesterday, we will reach this break line within 24 days, i.e. four days of difference. What was decided yesterday is not enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u72	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. We need more courage, Mr President! We need the government's courage to take additional measures now, because every hour counts. We need the courage of health professionals, true heroes, to whom we owe so much. And it takes courage from all of us to do what has already been said: cancel everything! Social isolation is the only thing that can help to deduce this epidemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u74	Mr André Ventura, from the CH, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u75	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members : It will certainly not be by this House that you will not have the unit you need to take action. We must not forget that there have been late measures and, above all, to think more about safeguarding the economic and political climate than the health of Portuguese people. [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u76	What an indecency!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u77	That is why we have reached the point where we are today. Let me ask you, Minister... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the speaker to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u79	So, Mrs. Minister, I would like you to clarify three or four things. Are we going to have controls at the borders and airports? What happens at Lisbon airport is something unthinkable for those arriving in Portugal. Are we going to have equipment distributed to professionals or not? We know, for example, that the police have operations marked for this weekend and that they have no protective equipment. How is that possible? Today we have heard from newspapers that we have the lowest rate of beds in Europe in intensive care. How is that possible? And above all, I would like to ask you, Mrs Minister, whether or not we are going to have a long and long information campaign because what we have today is a complete confusion about what is going on and what must be done, especially at the level of professionals. But let us once again challenge the government: don't be afraid to control the borders. Spain has huge cases, and growing every day! What we don't do today we're going to regret here some time ago we haven't done. And when we look back, we will say that we did not take the measures that we should have taken for lack of courage and, above all, with fear of creating chaos and confusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u80	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u81	But this confusion, as Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo said, is already being launched and may be much more marked within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u82	Now you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, while we continue to work disciplinaryly to combat this new disease, the COVID-19, we must not neglect the duty to which we are called, information and clarification. So these answers that I want to share with you and which were also shared yesterday during the working day we had. First, the new coronavirus was identified on January 9. On 11 March, the pandemic situation was declared. in this period, the Government of Portugal, the Ministry of Health and the national health authority were not stopped, as health professionals were not stopped. We prepared the medical device, brought back the citizens who were in Wuhan, welcomed them to the Clean Valente Hospital, tested them, guaranteed them tranquility in the best possible conditions, returned them to society. During this period, we activated the response lines in all health services, we activated the reference hospitals, we set up the second line of hospitals, we set up the National Reference Laboratory, we set up the National Reference Laboratory to provide training to hospitals, we distributed kits, we distributed individual protective equipment, we constituted a strategic national reserve, we set up a stock management system, we strengthened the Medical Support Line ( LAM), we strengthened the Health Line 24, despite its weaknesses we will still continue to improve. In all regional health administrations (ARS) there are public health teams operating in facilities that have prepared to respond quickly and effectively to the concerns of the entire health system. We prepared various guidelines, we launched the National Plan of Preparation and Response for the Disease by new coronovirus (COVID-19), which is now available for consultation, information and guidance from all Portuguese. We associated with the other government sectors. We took part in huge meetings with other ministries from other countries, presently and without being present, we exchanged hundreds of e-mails, we read hundreds of documents. We haven't been stopped. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And yet, like all others, we fear not to be prepared, because it does not depend only on us. Restrictions on travel had the illusory effect of protecting us from what is an increasingly global world. We went along with the travelers from China, identifying them and locating them, and we started applying the same system to those from Italy. We will probably have to think about the same system for others who come from affected areas. But what they ask us is whether we should have limited our travels. Should we also prevent our citizens of Lousada or Felgueiras from having access to what Portugal is all about? We don't agree. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Measures to extend tests introduced - we will introduce them as the authorities recommend it. at this time, we have extended the tests according to the new definition of case. We have concerns, clearly, and that is why we shared them with all and asked for everyone's help. We are committed to ensuring that all personal protective equipment that are available in the supply chain are purchased by our country, distributed and reach whom they need. But these equipment will be carefully used, because we live at a time when we have to use the available capacity carefully. We are committed to strengthening the medical support line and the Health 24 line, so a new call center will start operating on the Health 24 line and a technological reinforcement will be made to respond to 2000 calls simultaneously. However, previously, the search for the line was of 40 000 calls, which is a significant number. Let's get ready to keep answering, the same with beds and fans. This is the time for everyone's responsibility, for the government, for the authorship, for the companies, for the schools, for the people. It's time to read, inform ourselves, study. It is time to be careful and careful in the absorption of information, to discuss calmly, to share teachings. Science cannot stand behind this moment we face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, above all, this is the time to align restraint, caution with mitigation, but never leaving to help, never letting anyone stay home alone, isolated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u85	...no bread, no water, no basic services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] that we will not abstain, because this is the time for everyone's responsibility and we are here, serenely, responsibly, disciplinaryly, in solidarity, to work with all and with all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u86	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for the closing of this debate, scheduled by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was scheduled by the CDS, which thus spent its only opportunity to use this power right in this type of debate. And in a good time we have scheduled it, because I think this is the time to discuss these matters. At the end of the debate, many questions remained to be answered, Mrs. Minister. But we'll have a chance to see that. No, no, no, no. [[Almost all of them!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u88	However, I wanted to say that I agree when you say this is the time. But this is the time when we cannot continue, with the country on the alert—and well! — to make the systematic discourse of « nothing happens» and « no alarmism». [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u90	Either we choose one thing, or we choose the other one. So we have to make that choice. And this is the time for all of us to set the example, and eventually this House will also set the example, which you have not done so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u91	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u92	I shall finish with three words, Mr President. I leave a word of solidarity, of course, to those who are sick and who need our help. I leave a clear word for those who decide, and for the government itself, saying that this is a turning point and that there is no hesitation in taking action that will be necessary in the future. Let us not lack the courage to take these measures. I give a word to health professionals, saying that, from the point of view of politicians and those who have responsibility, we are with them and we will do everything we can to ensure that their support is not lacking. For those who are risking their lives too, because they are on the front line. They'll have all our support. Finally — and as has already been said — I also leave a word to all Portuguese people, so that they may meet, so that what we saw two or three days ago will not be repeated when the first educational establishments are closed. That there is responsibility, that Portugal gives here a huge example of civicism, civic behavior and mental responsibility. I even finish Mr President, with one last word—and believe that it is sincere: Madam Minister, good luck and that you do not lack courage! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u93	We have thus reached the end of this debate, which was the first point on our agenda. Since the discussion of the second point of our agenda was preceded, we moved directly to the third point, with the appreciation of the Draft Resolution No 115 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of an advisory council of the rural world together with the general discussion of Bill No 204 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World. Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS, for an intervention to open the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After this debate on the exceptional situation we are living in Portugal, although it could be expected that Parliament will set an example of this exceptionality and that we would realize that we are in fact experiencing an exceptional situation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u95	The CDS didn't propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u96	You proposed to the President!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u97	... we will continue with this debate, with almost 300 people gathered in this room. Mr President, today the CDS proposes the establishment of a consultative council in the rural world. The first reason, and obviously, that motivates us, is to give a voice to the rural world, because this voice needs to be heard, at a time when some more politically correct thought—I would say even more urbanly suspicious—either condemn it to silence or forgetfulness. We know that Portugal does not divide or can be divided between the coast and the interior, between the city and the province, or between rural and urban. Portugal is of everyone and our national identity, what we are as a nation is only complete with the voice of all. Then we present this project because the CDS looks at the territory as an asset that has to be preserved and empowered. To this end, and to counter desertification of parts of our territory, the most rural, we believe that it is necessary to value agriculture, livestock and forest as assets for the preservation of the territory and also as economic activities, which are dynamic and can provide young people and entrepreneurs with opportunities for employment, quality of life and growth. This can only be so and continue to be so if they are not consecutively created obstacles and complications by the State and by the legislation to these activities. We also know that the agricultural sector produces a set of public goods that is important to preserve and that have a vital role in promoting biodiversity. These are examples of many protected areas, where the values that are intended to protect depend directly on agricultural activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no more committed environmentalist than a conscious farmer. Therefore, we present this project, which is not only symbolic, is also symbolic, but above all very practical, because it brings together all producer organizations so that the decisions that are made are based on technical opinions and scientific knowledge and not on prejudices or ideas made, so that they are given opinions and opinions by whom every day works and produces in these areas. We propose that this council function as a non-remunerated consulting body with Parliament so that legislative initiatives can be better adapted and better informed of the political power and society as a whole. We are open to all the amendments and opinions that can improve this advice. However, we want to make it clear that what we are proposing is not the creation of another public service, another ministerial division, with more officials conducting further studies that have already been done. The aim is not to give another voice to the government, it is not to create another division. The goal is to give the time, to give the word, to give voice to the rural world and to all who live and work every day. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity to greet the House. You now have the floor for an intervention in the presentation of Bill No. 204 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no question of the support of the CFP for the interior and rural world. Our intervention is not only in defense of family agriculture, small and medium-sized farmers, forest producers, livestock producers, populations, but also in defense of our struggle for a set of public services that respond to the needs of the population living in the interior and in the rural world. Our struggle in defense of this inner and rural world is so well known. For the PCP, the development of Portugal must be achieved by counting the country as a whole. There will never be development abdicating parts of the territory. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we present another initiative, this time a bill, which, to be approved, has created a multidisciplinary structure, integrating institutional representatives, interested entities and populations, able to give the necessary response to the realization of Characterization and Diagnostic Studies and the formulation of policy proposals that promote the development of these regions, which is a way to respond to the many problems that the interior and the rural world face. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we propose that the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World should have the following tasks: to define a set of specific indicators for the development of the interior and the rural world; to present elements and studies for the diagnosis and analysis of the development of the interior and rural world; to formulate the proposals for investment and intervention necessary for the desirable development of the territory, favouring cohesion between the different regions; to submit annually to the Assembly of the Republic a report on the state of the interior and the rural world. With regard to the draft resolution of the CDS, which recommends the establishment of an advisory council in the rural world, the CDS understands that Parliament should have a consultative body in this area. We are separated from this project three central issues. The first, and quite relevant, is the fact that this House is about political and ideological options and choices on agriculture issues. Options and choices each one takes what he wants and advises himself with whom he understands. The second central issue is the fact that we do not understand exactly who the CDS wants in this committee and why it only considers producer organisations, when the rural world has so many problems in other dimensions besides agriculture. The third question is the fact that, once again, the CDS is seeking, in a hurry, to clear its disastrous policy of destruction in the rural world. In the years when his former leader was minister of agriculture, he contributed to the destruction of family agriculture, imposing inordinate rules and bureaucracy, such as the obligation to register in finance to sell half a dozen products; liberalized the planting of eucalyptus; he adulteryd the Law of the Baldies; he gave a machadada, which he wanted it to be final — fortunately, he failed — in the House of Douro; he supported the large retail distribution, in his action to crush production prices; he continued the process of destruction of public services, closing hundreds of schools and health units, particularly in the rural world; and it ended with the free transport of non-emergency patients. As many and so many evils as the CFP has been fighting, which have led to a depopulated interior, without infrastructure, without public services and without diversified economic activities, capable of promoting the fixing of the younger population and attracting new residents, which makes it much more difficult to safeguard and protect their development. For this reason, the CFP proposes that the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World be set up, involving all the forces related to agriculture and the rural world, to function with the Government and advise its action, equipped with the human and material resources necessary to develop it. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u100	Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u101	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: This debate has, of course, a virtue, which is to enable the discussion of agriculture and the rural world, which is never of mere time in so many urban myths, dogmatisms, positions against science, where science is not respected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u102	The rural world is not just agriculture!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u103	Now we are talking about new tribalism in some ways and, indeed, that is what we have, which, being positions against science, against good practices, gives a very distorted view of agriculture. It is thus visible this ignorance of the rural world and agricultural activity that we see a race to supermarkets and hypermarkets because of the problem of the COVID-19 pandemic, in an almost total ignorance of food conservation and the reality of agricultural production. Only for this reason, even if it was not for nothing else, is it worth discussing these initiatives of the CDS and the PCP, because the PSD has often fought almost alone in an almost inglory struggle, against these myths, these dogmatisms, these current trends, populists, to see the rural world and agricultural and forestry production as if it were an enemy to be hit in this time of climate change. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Having said that, and repeating — Mr President, it is not worth getting so angry — it is only for this reason that we have to discuss these initiatives. We have some reservations about these initiatives, particularly those of the CFP, since we are talking about 31 entities to be part of this committee,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u104	Yeah! The rural world is complex!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u105	... what makes the work, I would say, almost impossible by complexity, and also the fact that it is expected that it is somehow dependent on the government by being up to three ministries. This does not fail to raise a few reservations, such as the one we have already conveyed, that we can be faced with a proposal that deals with the so-called 'law-work', because of its budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u106	That's settled!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u107	However, honourable Member, it is not worth being nervous. It will not be by the PSD that your proposal will not be feasible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u109	As for the CDS diploma, we also think you have some gaps. However, it is not by the PSD that these proposals will cease to make their way and be discussed, because we are on the side of science, rigour and everything that contributes to the rural world being seen differently. We avoid proposals, such as some that have been discussed here, which are an attack and an attack on the reality of agroforestry and livestock production. In short, whatever is on the side of the solution, we will be there too. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u110	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u111	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are debating a draft resolution of the CDS with various concerns about rural development, on the enhancement of the territory and its multifunctionality, on the exploitation of forest and agricultural products, on the ageing of the population, on the preservation of ecosystems and on the response to desertification and climate change. We wonder if this is the same CDS that was in the government for a few years, that government that liberalized the planting of eucalyptus with the "Crist law" and handed over the territory to cells and fires; that government that closed public services in rural areas, from north to south of the country, and advised young people to emigrate. How many young people have responded to the PSD / CDS Government appeal and left the country to work in the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, Switzerland, France or any other country? [[Exactly! Well seen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u112	Today, all these people are needed and many will not come back. The project exposes many legitimate concerns, but when we look at the concrete proposal we find that it is the creation of an agricultural lobby council on the Assembly of the Republic. They call it 'advisory Council of the Rural World', but it consists only of representatives of producer organisations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u113	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u114	Most Portuguese farmers are not part of any producer organisation and people living today in rural areas do not work mostly in agriculture or in the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u115	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u116	For the CDS, services and industry do not count for rural development and the Left Block will vote against this project. As for the PCP bill for the establishment of a committee for the development of the interior and the rural world, the proposal seems to be useful so that we can all better understand and evaluate the constraints of development, especially in rural areas. The Block will vote in favour of this proposal, but the same needs to be worked and improved in the field of expertise, and we are available to do so. We consider the number of members and their competences inadequate to the objectives set and the proposed secondary economic activities essential for the development of these territories, for the national production and for the resident population, of services to industry. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u117	Mr Mariana Silva, from the Green Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was once a country of rural genesis, which saw all the investments to be made on the coast, where everyone who sought a better life, a right salary at the end of the month and left behind a hard life from sun to sun, no vacation, no holidays and no weekends. Yes, because life in the rural world does not have the two days that those who live in the city enjoy to rest, relax and relax. The idyllic world exists only for those who go there on vacation. Whoever stays, who chooses to stay, does not intend to build a tourist space of the size of a village for tourists and Saudiers. Whoever remains, who continues to live in the desertified and abandoned rural world by the policy that PS, PSD and CDS have imposed, remains cultivating the land, treating the animals, keeping the landscapes untouchable, preserving history and culture. The Greens take advantage to welcome the rural world, because we recognize a set of potentials, not only from an economic point of view, but also because we believe that it is possible to combat desertification from within. There's political will! But, I said, it was once a country in which the inequalities between the coastal, more populous, and the interior, more impoverished, are confirmed by all studies and by all data, even though it seems to us that the evidence is so clear that they provide up to any study. Asymmetries are very sharp and have worsened much in recent years. The CDS resolution project, which is about who did the wrong yesterday and today does the candy, wants to be nice, but we don't love it. The rural world needs policies that address the problem and assume it as an absolute priority, with the involvement of all those responsible for the various areas: forest, family agriculture, biological agriculture, public services, economics, among others. in this country that I am telling you, on behalf of the payment of a debt, that the rural world had no responsibility, closed public services and their conditions of access by the populations; attacked the Baldios Law; created difficulties for farmers; extinguished the fragesias in the name of the savings we know today have never taken place;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u120	... little mobility was difficult with tolls and railway lines were closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u122	All this in the government of the CDS and PSD, which today swear love to the rural world and to the interior, a love abandoned in the past, but not forgotten for when it works! There is a need for a new look at the territory, which will, of course, go through the recovery of public services and the enhancement of local power, with the replacement of the financial resources so that they can develop their tasks. Valuing the rural world is a challenge for all of us to move and, on the Green side, we have defended the rural world with very concrete measures: the hiring of more means for the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests), the specific support and technical advice for family farming, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u124	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. In today's discussion, The Greens will follow the CFP project, because it corresponds to a need that we recognize as paramount, which is the constitution of a committee that is made up of entities that hold all the views of the rural world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u125	Mr Santinho Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The option of the CFP to set up an internal and rural development committee is very strange because it is ineffective. The exposition of motives itself does not go beyond a mere statement of common places, without a single novelty. The depopulation and emptying of public services cannot respond to the creation of another committee, the definition of indicators, the presentation of elements and diagnostic studies, the formulation of investment proposals, the presentation of an annual report to the Assembly of the Republic. So little is really too much. As they say on my land, «is a belly of hunger». To address such a development committee, it is a general council with dozens of members. By the way, I would like to know why the Co-ordination and Regional Development Commission of Lisbon and Tejo Valley is excluded from this list of entities. in a country with so many commissions, for what else, of overlapping action? Just look at it, ladies and gentlemen. Members: we have a number of CCDRs and their Regional Councils ; the Standing Specialized Committee on Regional Development and Planning of the ESC Territory ( Economic and Social Council ) ; the Movement for the Interior proposed the Territorial Coordination Council ; the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 16 / 2014 is the Territorial Consultation Council. We have the general councils of ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). The Government's organization includes the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, the State Secretaries of the Valorization of the Interior, Local Administration, Regional Development, Land Planning and Rural Development. We have the National Rural Network, the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Rural Development Programme, the local development associations. Several parliamentary committees function in the Assembly of the Republic. There are thousands of studies, theses and diagnoses in universities and polytechnics. We all know what is needed and the government has been responding creatively and firmly. We, the honourable Members, have demonstrated, with the thousands of draft resolutions that we have tabled, to know the rural country and its needs. The CDS is moving towards independent observatories to advise the Assembly of the Republic, once again in a logic of subalternization of parliamentary groups and of Members and of overlap of functions. For PS, this is not the way. What the interior and the rural world want is to attract investment, create jobs, diversify and qualify the productive tissue, stimulate business capacity, affirm the cross-border territories, look at migration movements — I repeat, look at migration movements — as opportunities to give life to the inner people. Migration movements and more people: here is a theme that can unite us, and this is an appeal I make to the Members of the CFP. The Work in the Interior program gives the motto a new look to the rural world. Creating more bureaucracy, but additional structures is redundant and useless.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u127	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u128	That way, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u129	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the years, due to various political options, the most rural areas in Portugal have been losing inhabitants. Some have emigrated, others have sought opportunities in the large coastal cities and today are less and less those who remain. The lack of fundamental infrastructure, such as schools or health centres, coupled with the lack of support for small producers, to the detriment of large agricultural and forestry companies, was a significant contribution to the abandonment of the interior, which was in many cases forced abandonment, because many people did not want to leave their lands or their homes. However, the lack of conditions to live there, the lack of employment and opportunities only gave them one way: the exit. To respond to this problem, the CFP proposes that the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World be set up, where the various ministries, the CCDRs, the ICNF, environmental protection associations, representatives of populations, among many others, should be represented. They are several and not just one, as in the case of the CDS, which summarizes the interests of the rural world to the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ) and company. The CDS continues to look at the territory in a reduced way, without abandoning the same paradigm that led to the depopulation and abandonment of the interior. In its draft resolution, the CDS recommends the establishment of an advisory council in the rural world, as a consulting body of Parliament, to contribute, to better fit legislative initiatives. It happens that this advisory council consists exclusively of producers, producers who feel about legislative initiatives that obviously will not always be in their best interests, especially because they are often at stake highly impactive activities. According to the exhibition of reasons of the CDS diploma, this party looks at the territory as an asset, a wealth that we have to preserve, empower and bind to the new generations better than we have found. However, he votes against almost all initiatives that see a fall of intergenerational solidarity. They continue to promote an extremely chemical-dependent agriculture, monoculture, without any respect for natural cycles, which call into question the productivity of soils, our sovereignty and food culture and strongly alter our landscape and the identity of populations. They say hunting and fishing are essential economic activities for the creation of wealth and for the conservation and management of species, but they reject all initiatives that concern greater knowledge of the populations in order to understand exactly what the limit for these activities is. The day will come when there will be no more fish to fish and no more hunting to hunt and in which the earth will be born nothing more. And responsibility is yours too! The CDS says it defends the rural world and its people, but truly only defends the pockets of the big producers, those who exploit the rural world, who spy on it and will continue to spy, if no one stops them, until the last drop. For the NAP, the defense of the rural world is done by valuing the protection of populations, with policies to fix people and to promote and defend low-density territories. What is intended is sustainable development, in balance with nature, and that allows the Portuguese to be happy and free to build a life where they understand well, ensuring them all opportunities. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u131	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u132	Madam President, I would begin by encouraging all of you. Members and all Members of Parliament to a national union in the fight against COVID-19, irrespective of our ideologies and differences. With regard to these initiatives, I am referring again to the fact that the CDS initiative does not have a truly useful and national view, not even specifically in the rural world. This universe, which insists on giving the name "rural world", is part of other universes which, daily, are the reflection of the national panorama. The CDS initiative originates, nothing less, than a kind of lobby to defend the interests of the big landowners. So I will vote against her...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u133	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u134	... and I will vote in favour of the CFP initiative, although I also believe that it needs improvements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u135	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must recognise that the rural world is effectively under attack, a cultural attack too, and that it is up to us, this House, to defend this same rural world. Mr João Dias says he wants a committee "to be able to present us with permanent reports on the state of the interior and the rural world". You don't have to, sir. It's a disaster, a total disaster! You don't need any commission for that. There's a disaster, a depopulation, a total desertification! We don't need any committee to tell us this. Today we have about 18 institutions — 18! — which, directly or indirectly, conduct the analysis, monitoring, counseling of issues related to the rural world. The committee proposed by the CFP would be one more of these, without any guarantee that improvements or solutions would be made in relation to the rural world. Let me tell you something, Mr John Dias. It points to the right the great mistakes that have led to the destruction of the rural world, but it cannot whiten out what its autarchs, in many areas of the interior and the rural world, have done in terms of destruction of private investment, destruction of synergies and destruction of investment application. [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u137	What a mess that's going on in that head! You don't know the power of the city!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u138	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u139	The Portuguese Communist Party always comes to this House saying « PS, PSD and CDS have destroyed the rural world », as if it had no responsibility in what has been happening in the rural world for decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u141	at least do that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u142	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u143	I will finish, Madam President. at least do that self-inspection...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u144	Mr. André Ventura, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u145	I will finish, Madam President. at least do this Christian self-inspection in relation to the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth item on our agenda follows this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u147	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u148	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u149	Madam President, the CDS has the right to close the debate, since it is the author of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u150	Mr President, as you know, I did not come to replace Mr President at the beginning of the debate, but the Bureau's Secretaries will certainly have that information. [[Pause.]] The Bureau had no record of that registration. Mr Telmo Correia, who will use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u151	Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u152	Mrs Cecilia Meireles then has the floor to close this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS that presents this initiative to give voice to the rural world is the CDS, the CDS that has never forgotten agriculture, that has never forgotten farmers and that has never forgotten the rural world, even when many do. Now, more than ever, this voice is needed, because she is often to be quiet, silent and, I would say, vilipendia. And I explain why. in this debate, we realize that for some parties "rural world" is synonymous with interior. Both of you may agree, sirs. Members, but are not synonymous and, above all, are not synonymous with « public functionalism», contrary to what some want to believe. It is true that, often in this House, we are discussing legislative initiatives, yes, on producers, yes, on farmers—it is not talkative, it is proud! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u154	Without a hint of scientific knowledge, what we heard from the NAP in this debate was that the CDS did not have a hint of solidarity. On the other day, we were accused of being indifferent to animal suffering, of being at the service of the big producers' purse...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u155	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u156	... and, in the same way, calmly accused farmers, those who fish and those who hunt, of being — and I quote — "farmers of the rural world". The rural world, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you need respect...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u157	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u158	... and, above all, it needs not to legislate about it and not to present initiative behind initiative — some of which have been adopted — without a word. The NAP goes on to say: "Are producers now going to think about legislation? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u159	Go, go!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u160	Come on, gentlemen. Members, because, if the rural world exists, it is because they work every day for it to exist,... [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] ...it's not because you guys, who are locked up in apartments giving opinions about fields they don't know, know more than they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u162	So, yes, they can vote against and lead our initiative today, but as long as the CDS here is, yes, we will have producers to think about the laws that concern them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u163	Now, yes, at the conclusion of the third item on the agenda, we move on to the joint discussion, in general, of Bills No. 145 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the restriction of night flights, except for force majeure and 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons. To submit Bill No 145 / XIV / 1. a, from the NAP, has the floor Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u164	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : Noise can cause chronic and cardiovascular diseases through stress, fatigue and sleep disturbances. It also causes a decrease in concentration capacity and, in children, in particular, the occurrence of hyperactivity disorders and attention deficit, which leads to lower school use. Last week the European Environment Agency published a report on noise in Europe, which concluded that Portugal is the country of the European Union with the highest percentage of children between 7 and 17 years of age affected by reading problems in areas with air traffic. Last year, a study by the environmental associationZERO concluded that the maximum noise limits at the Lisbon airport are not being respected. During the day, 75 dB were measured, failing to comply with the maximum of 65 dB legally permitted and exceeding 30 dB recommended by the World Health Organization. During the night, the average value was 66 dB, plus 11 dB than Portuguese legislation allows and more 26 dB than recommended by the World Health Organization. To better understand what we're talking about, 65 dB corresponds to the sound of an alarm clock. Those who live in Lisbon are thus subject to the sound of an awakening during the night. One of the largest international aviation consultants did a study on noise at European airports and concluded that the Lisbon airport is the highest number of inhabitants affected by air traffic across Europe, within a radius of 5 km and 10 km of the airport. Lisbon is the European champion in affected population with the noise of the airport. In view of this scenario and the increasing number of flights, it would be expected that the government would be monitoring noise levels at national airports, but it is not. In view of this threat to public health, it would be expected that Portugal had already implemented the European Regulation in force since 2016, which aims to introduce noise-related operating restrictions at European Union airports, but has not implemented them. What the NAP is proposing here, as strange as it may seem, is that European legislation be complied with, ensuring, as defined by the European Regulation, that noise assessment reports be prepared and proposals for minimizing impacts to the European Commission. However, until the process is completed and the European regulation properly implemented in Portugal, and taking into account that the maximum levels of night noise are not being respected, the NAP has since proposed the total restriction of flights between midnight and 6 o'clock in the morning at the Portuguese airports. 'This proposal is a disqualification for the economy,...' — some say — '...with impacts on the State budget' — others say. Well, let's see what we're really talking about. The flights currently allowed during the night can be carried out during the day, i.e. there is no economic impact on this NAP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u165	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u166	Let's see: in the case of Lisbon, the current capacity is 44 movements per hour and is happening 40. That is, it is possible to carry out, per week, more 504 flights during the day and what the NAP is proposing is the removal of 91 flights per week during the night. More: at the end of last year, increased capacity of movements per hour at Lisbon airport was approved, from current 44 to 72. This represents more than 9000 flights per week compared to the current 5000 flights. They do not want to convince us that, with a margin of 4000 flights per week, we will have financial impacts by transferring 90 flights from night to day, which is when the planes are to operate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u167	That's late, man!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u168	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is clear is that those who accuse us of, with this proposal, being damaging the economy do not want to disturb certain private interests and prefer to disturb and degrade those who sleep with the noise they are subject to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u170	Should Portuguese health or should it not be our priority?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u171	What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u172	The data presented make it clear that there is an urgent need to ensure the exclusion of night flights, as provided for in the noise law. It is the minimum that a responsible State can do to safeguard the well-being of the populations and, in particular, to defend the healthy cognitive development of children. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution states that it is for the State to protect the health of citizens,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u173	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u174	... does not say that it is for the State to protect the financial interests of airlines and airport companies. [[PAN's applause.]] During the intervention, images were designed, which can be seen at the end of the DAR.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u175	To submit Bill No. 212 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor of Mrs. Isabel Pires, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. and Members : The construction and use of an airport must take into account Community and national legislation on the minimization of the negative impacts it entails, considering its size and the risks it poses. Portugal is no exception and therefore, over the years, a number of legal diplomas have been approved containing noise issues, of which the General Noise Regulation is an example. In the Portuguese case, for example, the presence of an airport in the centre of Lisbon is a cause for concern about the negative impacts and irreversible damage it represents on public health, on the environment and on the quality of life of the population. But this concern has not been placed solely at national level. At the beginning of this week was known the report of the European Environment Agency, Environmental Noise in Europe 2020, which shows that one fifth of the inhabitants of the European Union are subject to noise pollution, with 12 000 premature deaths due to exposure to environmental noise. This agency also considers that Lisbon is the second worst European capital in this area, behind Luxembourg. In addition, the study concludes that 15 % of the population of Lisboa is subject to levels above 55 dB and, on the average of night noise, there is 10 % of the population that is exposed to levels of more than 50 dB. This report therefore confirms the urgency of the proposal now put forward by the Left Block and the urgency of this debate. We recall data of July 2019 released by the association Zero, Association Sustainable Earth System, in which the measurements to the noise pollution of night flights in Lisbon, in the area of Campo Grande, recorded an average value of 66, 5 dB, that is, 11, 5 dB above the maximum limit of 55 dB, permitted in the General Noise Regulation. At that time, too, there was an excess of the number of nocturnal air movements, which reached twice the legal maximum on a weekly basis. Therefore, we are faced with an exception regime that has in fact been in force since 2014 without justification after the end of the event that led to its creation, the 2004 European Football. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation described is not sustainable. Today we speak of Lisbon more prominently, but the risks to public health are not exclusive to a city. We have questioned the ministerial officials in writing and in hearings, several times and recently the President of the Chamber of Lisbon himself came to appeal at the end of the night flights in the city. In response, here in Parliament, in hearing, the Minister of Infrastructure said that it is a legitimate concern and that it should be equationd. Well, today we have the opportunity to move from words to acts. We have the opportunity to end an exception regime that has very negative consequences for the population. After some recent debates and public statements, we cannot afford to spend more time, being the Left Block available for all the necessary debate in particular, for the sake of public health and the environment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u177	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Air traffic has been increasing in recent decades and the implementation of measures is increasingly urgent with a view to reducing its harmful effects, restricting the number of operations allowed. There are environmental impacts on the quality of life of populations, and the noise of the aeronautical sector is associated with several health problems. The Greens therefore recall that it is necessary to value other means of transport that are more friendly to the environment and territorial cohesion, including rail transport, which must be a priority. Exposure to noise has serious effects on human health, and the World Health Organization says that air pollution today represents the greatest threat to human health, with the aeronautical sector a significant influence, too, in this phenomenon. It is necessary to state that there is no lack of studies that point to the need for aeronautical noise mitigation and that there is no lack of legislation on the matter. Infrastructure should therefore comply with Community and national legislation on the minimization of negative impacts. Despite this, the truth is that the number of flights has been increasing and the forecast is that this trend is continuing, increasing the health risk of those close to airports. It is in this picture that we record the criticisms related to the noise of airports, particularly the Humberto Delgado Airport, located in the center of the city of Lisbon, which represents public health, environment and safety problems. We are talking about the largest Portuguese airport in number of passengers and in volume of traffic and what most people affect in Europe, being among the most busy 20. Although legislation indicates that air movements are not allowed between 0 and 6 hours in 2004, an exception regime was published which allows for a maximum of 91 weekly and 26 daily movements during the night period. In the case of Porto, in this period, up to 11 daily movements and 70 per week are allowed. The Lisbon airport has been presenting sound pollution levels which far exceed acceptable values. However, an airport expansion is planned, with an increase of about 30 % of its area, as will increase the number of passengers and flights. In reality, exceptions allow for almost all night flights and legislation does not safeguard the quality of life of the populations, the right to rest is not respected. The Greens presented a bill on the prohibition of night flights, which will be discussed at another time, because we also follow the idea that it is essential that air movements during the night be limited, except in emergency situations, as happens at various European airports.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u179	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The right to the environment is a right enshrined in Article 66. the Constitution of the Republic, which states that we all have the « right to an environment of human life, healthy and ecologically balanced and the duty to defend. Do not keep on seeking. ” To ensure the right to the environment, within the framework of sustainable development, it is the responsibility of the State through its own bodies and with the involvement and participation of citizens, to prevent and control pollution and its effects. The prevention of noise and control of noise pollution, aimed at safeguarding human health and the well-being of populations, is thus a fundamental task of the State. We know that noise, especially at night, is a serious source of disruption of people's quality of life. Airport noise causes in neighbouring populations sleep disorders, increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases and reduces the learning capacity of children, resulting in serious consequences for the health and quality of life of citizens. The noise from the landings and take-offs of airport planes, with natural prominence at Portela airport, causes numerous complaints and serious inconveniences to the population of the city of Lisbon and the municipality of Loures on a daily basis. The existence of an international airport within a city is hardly compatible with the standards of quality of life that are desired for the urban population. We remind ourselves that, repeatedly, and disregarding the inconveniences caused, the government has approved the temporary lifting of restrictions on night landings at various airports, through door. Thus, aircraft landings, between midnight and 6 o'clock in the morning, were allowed, on condition, to the discretion of governments, with serious consequences for the health of the population. These are at least contradictory situations with the noise maps in force and noise reduction plans resulting from them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u182	The CFP agrees with the elimination of this exception regime which has so far allowed situations that must simply be eradicated. We must not fail to emphasise, however, that in this area too is particularly serious what was decided by ANA / VINCI, and promptly signed and announced by the Government, in relation to Portela airport. What is envisaged is an increase in airport capacity to 42 million passengers per year, only in Portela, with more than 20 % movements of aircraft per hour, without any strategic environmental assessment or even environmental impact assessment, maintaining this infrastructure in the city centre until 2062. This week we faced the Minister of the Environment with this issue in Parliamentary committee and it became even more evident that the strategy of VINCI, with the support of the Government, is to do this whole large-scale operation to the parts, contracting and announcing a piece at a time and trying to justify that each of these parts does not have an environmental impact assessment. Whether in Lisbon, whether in the rest of the country, on the network of national airports, on the continent and in autonomous regions, what is required is to safeguard respect for populations, to defend their quality of life and public health. This must be the priority rather than the profits of multinationals. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u183	Mr João Almeida of the CDS Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We continue with more a face-to-face debate, contrary to all the indications that the whole country is currently fulfilling, which is always extraordinary. Until recently we had a surreal moment when the government could comply with the distance recommendations, being the members of the government sitting with an interval chair, and we continue here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u186	... sitting next to each other, forcing the press and the services of Parliament to be in the same way. Honestly, it is important to have the debate we are having, but it is very important that we also be aware of the bad example that the Portuguese Parliament is giving at this time. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PCP and PAN.]] No one understands and therefore I ask the Bureau to give back what has been a position of intransigence, totally incomprehensible. I think it was not the Members who thanked the whole country that would be better represented at the moment than it is. As for the subject we are dealing with here, it is clear that the law of noise cannot be fulfilled sometimes and sometimes not, it cannot be fulfilled in any way and not fulfilled in any other way and cannot have as permanent exceptions as these that have to do with air traffic. But it is also important to frame the existing needs here at the moment. All the disturbance that is caused to the population of the municipality and the region of Lisbon has much to do with the overload that the Portela airport currently has the urgency of resolving this situation, too. For many years the CDS has been defending the solution « Portela + 1 », and « + 1 » has exactly to do with the possibility of air traffic at Portela airport being normalized and having a number of movements that are compatible, of course, with compliance with the noise law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u187	That's what the PAN said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u188	in this sense, we have defended this position in the City Hall of Lisbon, as we defend it here and have had the responsibility of, even though in the opposition, we know that this matter is so important to the country that requires that we all have a constructive position. Therefore, in this legislative process what we will defend is exactly what we always defend: the fulfilment of the requirements of a good noise law, such as that existing in Portugal, and its adaptation to best practices at this time. We defend the people who are affected by the failure to comply with environmental legislation in this case, but also, of course, a solution, from the point of view of infrastructure, which enables this compliance to be compatible with the need of an airport, in the case of Lisbon, a large city that has, of course, to have an airport response that is compatible with what, commercially, nowadays, is the existing reality and with an environmental responsibility that we cannot dispense with. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u189	For an intervention, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the set of bills we are discussing today on the restriction of night flights, it should be noted from the outset that these situations are the exception rather than the rule.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u191	It was better, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u192	This is because, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, safeguarding public health is a fundamental factor. And it is also good to remember that the general noise law already determines the prohibition of civil flights between midnight and 6 hours, except for reasons of exception,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u193	Exception that's already a rule!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u194	...that, of course, it is important that we also debate. In addition, according to works at Humberto Delgado Airport, the period of prohibition was even increased from 23 hours and 30 minutes to 5 hours and 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u195	Isn't that the opposite? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u196	That is, we only have 91 flights per week to be made at this time. It is worth examining the reasons inherent to the exceptions, because several times the night flights have been reported, which, I repeat, are an exception. It is worth announcing and discussing what are the reasons for these exceptions: exceptional delays in flights and connections. Portugal is well aware of a peripheral point in the European Union and, for the most part, it is also dependent on some links that can be lost or on the delays that can be imposed. This cannot be decreed by law. We also know that ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) has been acting by charging fines to airlines in this type of situation. But more: in a broader logic, and this has already been propagated here before my intervention, the restriction we live, the constraints we have in the airport capacity of Lisbon, is also causing a set of night flights that could be prevented. This is, the greater the airport capacity in the city of Lisbon, the greater the ability to prevent this type of flight, which are not, at all, desirable. In strict terms, the application of the bills that we are discussing today would generate a set of adverse effects, from then on, in the breakdown of revenue, on the increase of costs by charging fines, including the TAP, but also, on the limit, some companies could stop operating in Portugal. They are initiatives that do not resolve the issue and it is also expected that they will no longer make sense in the future, because the problem that exists, despite being residual, has a solution: the modernisation of Humberto Delgado Airport and the expansion of our airport capacity, in particular, as the Socialist Party, its government and its bank have already referred to, through the construction of the airport in Montijo. It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, only by increasing the number of movements per hour can we make a more effective management and have a more fluid system. But, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it does not fail to be curious that many of those present here, rightly pointing out that this situation is the one in the first line against the expansion of airport capacity and the sense of urgency that we have defended. The situation we have discussed, as I have already said, is exceptional, but still lacks a response. The Socialist Party's commitment is based on the capacity of the Lisbon airport expansion, building the Montijo airport, without further hesitation, because this is important for public health, as we already see from today's debate. I conclude by saying that it is also important for our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u197	Mr Rui Cristina has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD accompanies the concerns expressed in the bills, now under discussion, about periods of ban on landing and take-off at civil airports, in order to defend and protect public health in the long term. The PSD believes, however, that it is necessary to have a serious, constructive and conscious debate on this matter in order to safeguard the good development of activities of greater growth for the country before it legislates. by data published in the Environmental Noise Report in Europe 2020, of the European Environment Agency, Portugal has a challenge to overcome noise levels and the exposure of populations to them. However, there are two separate legal regimes in Portugal on this subject, built according to the specific characteristics of national airports. As the data show at national level, about 7 % of the city population and its surroundings are exposed to noise values above 50 dB, so it is important to harmonise the legislation on flight restrictions but at all airports. Quoting the World Health Organization, several health effects are indicated due to the noise of air traffic. Exposure to too much noise can lead to stress disturbances leading to cardiovascular problems, interferes with sleep and disturbs rest, vital to the human body. These are impacts that act quietly, in the long term. The PSD is alert and committed to finding the best commitment to the issues of noise, particularly night flights, with its consequences and its implications, but we are also aware of the impacts on some of the most strategic sectors for the development of the country, of course, that of tourism. As you know, the entrance door of the visitors is by the airports, and according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), in 2019 Portugal received 27 million tourists, of which 16 million foreigners. But INE also presented other data: in 2018, tourism consumption represented 14, 6 % of GDP, which overall represented 4, 2 billion euros of profits for the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u199	What about the children? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u200	Then we have to consider the employment numbers. More than 400 000 people work in the tourism industry, 9% of total national employment. It's a lot of jobs, it's a lot of families, it's a lot of people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u201	Because of flights at 1 hour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u202	This is why, although following the concerns expressed in the bills we discussed here, the PSD proposes an evaluation process which must include a consultation phase with interested parties. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u203	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will vote in favour of both legislative initiatives. However, it is useful to mention the following: what this time is demanding from us is that there is a slowdown, effective restriction in several areas and I think it is insufficient, due to public and environmental health issues, to reduce night flights. What we really need is to reduce air traffic in a global way and restrict it to the really necessary links. It doesn't make sense a plane ticket from Lisbon to Porto is much cheaper than a train ticket. It is necessary to invest in the railway and to avoid the construction and rehabilitation of airports that cause environmental damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u205	For a short speech, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to mention a few points, because I think they are important: everyone and everyone has expressed concern about public health and the environment, but, above all, about public health and the consequences that the noise of airports has in the populations, which shows that it is necessary to end the regime of exception, because it is an exception regime that we are talking about, which has no meaning. There is no justification for maintaining this exception regime from 2004 when there was a specific situation that does not exist today. But you can't solve a problem like this with a bigger problem than that of Montijo airport. Parliament therefore needs to take a look at this matter and, as I said in my first speech, the Left Block is available to, as a specialist, hear those we find necessary to make final progress and to end the exemption regime for night flights — that is all we are talking about — and to look after the public health of the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u207	To conclude this debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is unacceptable to be the European capital champion in population who suffers from noise and this government does nothing. It is a government which is in breach of European legislation and which is in paints for the fact that Portugal is the country of the European Union with the highest percentage of children affected by reading problems in areas with air traffic. There are about 7500 affected children. It is unacceptable that, in order not to disturb the flight logistics of some companies and the management of ANA airports, there is no risk of disturbing people, subjecting them in a night of rest, between midnight and 6 hours, stress, tiredness, sleep disturbances and cardiovascular problems, among others. The Socialist Party, which is impermeable to economic interests, always next to ANA and against the well-being of the populations, comes to speak in a breakdown of revenue. We have presented here data that have not been rejected by the Socialist Party, in particular by saying that there is airport capacity in Lisbon at the moment for more than 504 flights per week—it is not that we are defending it, but there is. What we say is that it is possible to spend 90 night flights for day flights, because we have this strike, but the Socialist Party does not want to comment on these data. The PSD, more or less in the same line, says : "Well, we have to be serious and before we legislate we have to debate." Yeah, all right, let's do this. The NAP will present a request for discharge to the Commission without a vote of our bill and we will debate, we will debate a lot, we will be very serious, like the PSD, and then we will legislate. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the NAP, we do not want to be European champions of the lack of health protection of the populations affected by airports, we do not want to be European champions of children with cognitive problems in air traffic areas. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u209	We have thus concluded point 4 of our agenda. We will move to point 5 which consists in the assessment of petition No 620 / XIII / 4. a (Armando José de Oliveira Teixeira Fernandes et al.) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot fail to welcome the petitioners who have mobilized to preserve one of the most beautiful views of the city of Lisbon and which is part of the identity heritage of all of us. Incomprehensibly and, once again, by the hand of Manuel Salgado, whose reign seems to have no end in the city of Lisbon, a project was approved that will decharacterize the entire surrounding area, from the very beginning by its volume, and does not guarantee the right to panoramic view of the city. We have seen, in cities such as Lisbon, an unbridled increase in the volume of buildings, causing shade in adjacent dwellings, cutting sights, decreasing green spaces. More: We also watch a constant privatization of the public space in which they only enter and only enjoy either tourists or those who have money to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u212	This is not the city we want or ambition. We want a city that can be lived by all and by all, those who already lived here or those who decide to move to our Lisbon. We want a city in which we can still see the Tagus peering through our streets and not a city in which the concrete reigns or the gap between Medina and Salgado. And what does the House of Democracy have to say about this? All of us, as elected and elected, have a role to play in what is now permitted to license the local authorities and that is why this petition is of the greatest relevance, this warning that these citizens, who have mobilized to defend the heritage of all of us and of all of our city, have come to give this Assembly. We cannot continue to have autoarchs that completely destroy the identity of the cities and the Assembly of the Republic does not have a word to say about this. I conclude by repeating the compliance with the petitioners who have mobilized themselves in defense of the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte that oppose this project, leaving the necessary reflection that we must revisit these legal regimes, preventing them from destroying the heritage, which also passes through the right to view in our city, which is the only one that marks us and which also distinguishes us from outside and which we should be proud of starting by protecting it. Thank you very much. We will continue to voice this concern and we will do everything, either here or locally in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, to defend our Miradouro, our city and the one who is also our right to see the river Tejo. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u213	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin to greet the petitioners and the petitioners, a collective of citizens and citizens of the Bairro da Graça, the city of Lisbon and the whole country, committed and committed to the defense and preservation of the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte. in an exercise of citizenship, the subscribers mobilized against the construction of the building of housing next to the Miradouro, taking into account, and I quote, that "this claim is configured as an injury to the interests of the citizens, considering the historical, religious, landscape and environmental value of the place where the unit is subalternized and devalued by the building. Do not keep on seeking. ” The 4445 petitioners contest the authorization for construction in a seismic risk zone associated with landslide and argue that it may be at issue 40 % of the view protected by the PDM ( Municipal Director Plan ). This lot is also classified by the PDM as a permeable green achievement to be preserved, integrated into the green ecological structure of the city, which borders on the public space for citizens and citizens to enjoy with the wide range of landscapes seen there. The petitioners also question the superficiality of the conditional approval opinion issued by DGPC ( Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ) within the framework of the PIP ( previous information request ), since the Chapel and the Miradouro are covered by the Municipal Heritage Charter. The Chapel of Our Lady of Mount has been classified as a monument of public interest since 1933 and since 1960 it has been created a special protection zone because it is understood that the heritage to be protected is, in addition to the built, the entire surrounding area. In order to ensure that the context is not decharacterized, in particular with new constructions or with the free space occupation which is also integrated into the classified area. There are examples in Lisbon of how real estate and speculative voracity marks the profile of the city forever. These examples should not be repeated and urban coherence must be observed. You can look at any of the seven hills for the rest, observing the old house and the majestic glasses of the soft pine trees, should not be prevented by any speculative interest that still raises the safeguard of heritage classified almost 100 years ago. Because of popular pressure in local organs, the initial project was stopped. The Block of Left presented in 2018 a motion approved in the parish of S. Vicente to oppose the project Terraços do Monte because it means an urban error with wide popular challenge. However, the news reports that the Lisbon Chamber is analyzing a new construction project, after the initial PIP has expired, and with other applicants as the land was sold to a real estate promoter in 2018. This worrying information shows that it is necessary to maintain popular and political pressure. We will continue to defend intransigently the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte, the preservation of the historical and symbolic place of the city. We will not let the MDP be ignored and the heritage devalued. It is a democratic imperative to prevent private interests from harming the right of everyone living in Lisbon or visiting it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u215	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u216	Madam President, I will now conclude. To prevent this construction, which aims to unduly take over a public space, in a place where it makes no sense to build whatever it is, is a task that should mobilize us all and everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u217	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u218	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens welcome the subscribers of the petition to defend the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte for bringing today to the Assembly of the Republic a matter that goes beyond the municipal dimension. Mobile speculation, with the fever that allowed it to settle in our country, did not only bring the vertiginous rise of incomes and consequent housing problems, especially in large urban centers, came also accompanied by greed and impunity. Everything is acceptable, everything is possible to build, especially if what is concerned is a view of the city, the river or the most beautiful sunset of the place. The cities close their eyes and question the preservation of public spaces which must be for the benefit of all, but which cease to be when the political options pass through the sale to the privates who do not care to pay the weight of gold and the worst is that they often take it at the price of rain. Mrs. Members, the land concerned are a set of lots that the House of Lisbon bought in the 1950s, 60s and 80s for public utility purposes and which were subsequently transferred to the Public Urbanization Company of Lisbon ( EPUL ). In 2011, this company submitted a previous request for information which was plunged both by the authority and by the then IGESPAR ( Institute for the Management of Architectural and Archaeological Heritage ). In 2015, when EPUL was extinct, the land returned to the possession of the Chamber, which sold them immediately the year after a real estate company. Back there was the public utility that led to its acquisition. Recently, a project was planned—which is the reason for this petition— whose previously approved request for information expired meanwhile, which provided for the construction of blocks of apartments at the top of the Monte Shoe. It was, and continues to be, the construction of an earthquake risk zone associated with the danger of landslide, as it has already happened very close to it, and the fact that the integrity of the current panoramic view is at stake, as well as the use given to the land is questionable. We speak of an area covered by the special area of protection of the Chapel of Our Lady of Mount, classified as a property of public interest since 1933, and the PDM foresees the qualification of the space as permeable green achievement to preserve, being part of the municipal ecological structure. The Greens accompany the concerns of the petitioners and reject all and any project with negative impacts on the system of sights, as well as any project that harms the sights and their enjoyment, that harms the city and the citizens and that is not a further value for the interests of the people. The Greens in the Municipal Assembly are closely monitoring the issue and will continue to pay attention to ensuring that the well-being and quality of life of the masses is not lost to other interests. [[PEV and PCP Member Mr Duarte Alves applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u219	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting more than 4400 petitioners, particularly because of their persistence and commitment on this subject. The question is, in fact, the competence of the City Council of Lisbon, and that is where it has to be dealt with, but having the petition reached Parliament in these terms, it is, as it should be, to be discussed here. The CDS has accompanied this issue with concern and proximity, both in the City Hall and in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, or in the Board of Freguesia, since 2016. For the CDS it is essential to ensure the Miradouro as a landscape heritage of the city, public space for leisure and enjoyment and even religious devotion. And because it is a glance, let us agree, it is also appropriate to safeguard its most decisive feature, that is, its views. The councillor of the CDS in the City Hall of Lisbon, Mr João Pedro Gonçalves Pereira — who is not here today for reasons of general knowledge, because, to give the example, he is in isolation, having consulted the process, reported that there is currently a proposal of the services that makes the new licensing project that the real estate promoter has submitted unfavorable. Therefore, being sure that the process is not completed, it seems to be on the right track, keeping the CDS, the City Council and the City Council of Lisbon, all the effort to ensure that the process comes to a good end and satisfies our citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u221	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome the petitioners who mobilized the population of the Bairro da Graça and the parish of S. Vicente, in Lisbon, against an enterprise that was preparing to be built in the full Miradouro of the Lady of Monte, blocking one of the best views about the city of Lisbon and questioning the right to the city. Unfortunately, this project is not a single case. What is not missing are examples of an increasingly hostile city to its residents, where the inhabitants are displaced from their homes, where small trade is expelled to give rise to the business of decharacterization of the city, where the public heritage is appropriate. And everything in the name of the interests of the estate and massive tourism and without rules. Whoever designs these policies, whether at the government level or at the local level, should realize that, in addition to everything else, this discharacterization of cities, their people and their heritage will end up killing « the golden egg chicken ». Without people, without their own life, without the heritage they can enjoy, what do tourists come to do in Lisbon? Both in the local authorities and in the Assembly of the Republic, the CFP has defended a policy that ensures the right to housing, a policy to safeguard cultural heritage, to ensure the right to the city, which naturally includes the right to the enjoyment of the landscape and cultural heritage by all who live and work here and who mobilize to defend the right to the city, as well as this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u224	As an eminently authentic matter, this petition was also appreciated in the organs of the Municipality of Lisbon, where the CFP expressed its support for this cause, demanding the fulfilment of the commitments made on 18 September last year by the President of the City Council of non-approval of projects for that site that did not respect it. This is valid for any project that is intended to be implemented there since it is impossible to build without affecting the public use of the mirror. We will continue to follow this matter on our own, because we do not question the autonomy of the local power, rejecting the approval of projects that only serve to give some, very few profits, with enormous damage to all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u226	It is very important that people continue to mobilize around the defence of what is theirs and what is theirs. Cultural heritage cannot be hidden between buildings, landscape heritage cannot be covered so that only a few people can have the best views, quick profit cannot continue to disarticulate socially and decharacterize Lisbon and so many other cities in this country. They need policies that give cities back to people and for this fight here will be the PCP. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u227	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the approximately 4400 petitioners for the exemplary act of citizenship which they have produced here in the form of petition, requesting that the licensing of a construction project be prevented in the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte. The PSD will fully respect the constitutional principle of the autonomy of the local authority which prevents us from speaking in particular about the urban assessment that may be carried out at the municipal level, the central object of this petition. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] But we are not prevented from dealing with matters that affect them, including the protection of buildings of public interest, special protection areas and landscapes and protected sights. The Miradouro da Senhora do Monte, with the Chapel of Our Lady of Monte, founded in 1147, is classified as a property of public interest since 1933. The Miradouro da Senhora do Monte is an open window on the city, has one of the most beautiful panoramic views of Lisbon and of it can be seen almost everything that constitutes the identity of the city, especially the estuary of the Tejo, the Castle of São Jorge, the roofs of the Mouraria and the Baixa Pombalina. They allege to the petitioners that the urban enterprise that intends to license violates the Heritage Bases Act, several articles of the PDM and also the special area of protection of the chapel, objectively threatening the views of this mirror, one of the most visited of Lisbon. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the duty of the authorities to safeguard historical heritage, be it cultural, architectural or landscape heritage. It is the duty of the authorities to preserve protected areas and views. in this circumstance, it seems to us a very bad sign that, on the basis of urban/administrative mechanisms and records provided by law, compromises the guarantee of these values. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that the Minister for Culture has put herself outside this debate. Their participation would certainly make this debate richer and clearer. I recall that, within its powers, Parliament urged the Minister of Culture, about nine months ago, to speak on the content of this petition, but unfortunately the Members did not get any answer. on our part, the position is very clear: we will follow the concern and position of the PSD Members in the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, which, among other things, proposed a recommendation for the preservation of views and the enjoyment of the Miradouro. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u229	Mr Pedro Cegonho, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u230	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, firstly, to health the concern about safeguarding the heritage and with the diffuse interests of the petitioners who presented this petition to us about safeguarding the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte, in Lisbon. It is important to preserve memory and all that involves concern with safeguarding heritage, whether material or immaterial, as in the case of the landscape. It's always good to say hello. in this particular case, the principles of subsidiarity and autonomy of local authority apply. Should the Assembly of the Republic then ask itself: have you given the legislator appropriate and appropriate instruments to regulate these matters? The answer is « yes». There are specific legislative instruments to regulate urban issues, the planning of the territory, the edificibility of the territory, as well as matters of safeguarding and classifying the heritage. It also adds the constitutional capacity of the authorities to produce administrative regulations. However, returning to the principle of subsidiarity, which must be very expensive to this House, it should be noted that the organs of the Municipality of Lisbon have already publicly pronounced on this specific case of the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte, in order to safeguard the landscape heritage defended by the petitioners who have submitted this petition. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - in this first intervention in this Chamber, especially after I have ceased to serve in the National Association of Freguesias, at the time of demand and exceptionality we live, health all and all the authorships of this country, who will have to have a leading role, important and demanding, as all Portuguese. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u231	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having no further entries for speeches on this item on the agenda, we will turn to Petition No 320 / XIII / 2. a ( Luís Amaral et al.) — They request the creation of the professional category of single transport agent, in conjunction with Resolution Projects Nos 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the creation of a special career as a single collective transport agent and 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as a single collective transport agent. To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u232	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the petitioners and the SMTUC Workers Commission ( Municipalized Services of Urban Transportation of Coimbra ), which is present here. What we're asked for is fair. In fact, in 2008 the career of a single collective transport agent was extinguished and his professionals integrated into the general category of operational assistants. There has been no definition of the specific functional contents of these professionals, knowing that the functional content of the operational assistant category is very short of the specific and highly responsible functions of these professionals. The concrete, practical consequence in the lives of these people is that the definition of their functions and the setting of the criteria for their assessment is made discriminarily by the middle leaders, fully revealing what are the basic laws of labour law. Moreover, for the exercise of this profession, a set of requirements is required for these workers, from, of course, the driving licence to certification of the fitness of drivers and other requirements with a temporary limited validity, and all at the expense of the workers themselves. There is therefore a clear contradiction here. The profession of a single collective transport agent is recognised in the national catalogue of professions, there are qualification courses for a single collective transport agent and, however, the State itself does not recognize this profession, in practice, and dilutes it in the category of operational assistant. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Left Block, I am here to say that it is fair and necessary to recognise the professional career as a single agent of collective transport, in order to meet the concrete needs and, more than that, to correspond to the practical reality of the day-to-day life of these professionals, who exercise a profession with a specificity that is not recognized by law and in everyday practice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u233	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u234	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this intervention by also greeting the petitioners who have submitted a petition for the creation of a career as a single collective transport agent. We also welcome the drivers of the municipal services who are present here and all who are daily at their workplace and who, despite having seen their career destroyed with the approval of Law No 12 -A / 2008, continue to perform their duties, in a devalued career, in a career that does not take into account their specificities, and struggle for the valorization of their rights, careers and remuneration. In fact, the adoption by PS, PSD and CDS of legislation that led to the destruction of public administration careers represented one of the greatest attacks on the rights of public administration workers, aiming at a profound and strategic devaluation of their careers. We understand that it is fair, that makes sense and that new careers must be restored and / or created in Public Administration, according to the specificities of each particular function, in the perspective of the valorization of careers and workers and the improvement of the public service that is provided to the people. We understand that this discussion on the replacement, modification and creation of new careers is a discussion within the framework of collective bargaining between the representative organisations of workers and the government. We therefore bring here the debate, together with this petition, a draft resolution precisely in this regard, recommending to the Government that it develop all the efforts to initiate and develop the negotiation process for the replacement and creation of public administration careers, including the creation of the career as a single collective transport agent, with a view to the completion of the process until the end of this calendar year. We are talking about some 400 workers in municipal services who are in the career of operational assistants but who, in practice, perform the functions of a single collective transport agent. The career as an operational assistant does not take into account the specificities that are required nor the set of certifications that are required for these workers, not allowing their valorization as workers and the appreciation of their career and wage grid. Therefore, if we want to improve public service, if we want to effectively value those who work, we consider it absolutely essential to start with the creation of a concrete career in this particular case, starting with the replacement of a career that has been extinct, taking into account, indeed, the specificities and the investment that these workers make in their training, and that it is supported by you, taking steps towards the realization and creation of this career. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u235	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u236	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the previous legislation, Petition No 320 / XIII / 2 was submitted. a, concerning the creation of the professional category of single transport agent. in this petition, it is requested, and I quote, "to be recognized the professional category of the sole agent of collective transport and created an autonomous career, with a salary index of 837, 60 €, by equalization to the other public transport companies as well as a new model of assessment, since the current one does not fit in the characteristics of the profession". Analyzing the resolutions now presented, and similar to those already mentioned in the analysis of Petition No 320 / XIII / 2. a, it should be noted: Decree-Law No 498 / 99 established the index of the careers of collective transport reviewers and of the single agent of collective transport, specific careers of the local administration, correcting some distortions that occurred to date and also providing for rules relating to their respective areas of recruitment. Further forward, in 2002, Decree-Law No 102 / 2002 corrected some situations of overstepping, while also safeguarding some situations of loss of expectations of progress in relation to the previous salary scale. More recently, Decree-Law No 121 / 2008, in the framework of a public administration reform programme, determined the extinction of a large number of careers, including the career as a single collective transport agent and the transition of workers there integrated into the general career as an operational assistant. The merger of these careers into the new general careers, through the transition, does not mean the disappearance of the specificities of existing professions and jobs, but only that these specificities will be welcomed in the characterization that of them will be made on the staff map of each of the organs or services. Indeed, the specificities now claimed to justify career creation have already been taken into account in the review process enshrined in Decree-Law No 121 / 2008, in order to integrate these workers into the overall career of operational assistant. Indeed, there is no change in functional content, degree of complexity, qualifications required for career entry, and added duties, no reason for the creation of an autonomous career is identified. I conclude by saying that it can always be said that the empowerment of a single agent career would necessarily imply the analysis and weighting of the empowerment of other professions with related functions with which we are now considering, for example, that of a driver. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u237	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition today under consideration, signed by 4130 petitioners, in which the first subscribers are members of the Committee of Workers of the Municipalized Services of Urban Transport of Coimbra, here today present and which I take advantage of to greet, aims to create the professional category of single transport agent. In the body of the petition are mentioned the charges with formation and renewal of titles, which are supported by drivers and which, with the entry into force of Law No 82 / 2019, at the initiative of the PSD, will become supported by the employer, thus correcting this serious injustice. This is a clear example that, even before this petition was discussed in plenary, the PSD was sensitive to the problems affecting these professionals and contributed, with its proposal, to the proper resolution. Through Decree-Law No 121 / 2008, the career of a single collective transport agent was integrated into the general career of an operational assistant, within a legislative process that aimed at harmonizing the careers of the public service, not properly precautioning a set of situations well described in the petition under consideration. However, the proposed correction has two resolutions: one, the competence and will of the municipality, through the creation of a public passenger transport company, similar to other municipal or supra-municipal companies, where the problem of career training no longer exists; the other necessarily passes through the change of special careers, from the competence of the government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD recognises the injustices exposed and revises the reasons and arguments presented by drivers, despite considering that the creation of new careers should not take place in an avulva way, without the proper harmonisation and consideration of all professional classes that also aspire to the creation of professional careers. This is a matter of the sphere of government, which must correct the injustices raised, listening to the representatives of the workers, bringing together and fulfilling the commitments towards collective bargaining. Unfortunately, as far as we know, these working meetings have not been held, which indicates a huge disinterest of the government from the problems of workers and also from dialogue in the search for better solutions for public servants and for the Public Administration. We cannot help but wonder that the parties that support, and have supported, the government in the last legislature, which had several opportunities to solve this problem, now, in the explanatory statement, want to shoulder responsibility for the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u239	That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u240	...without taking the blame in recent years for having been the great partners of the Socialist Party Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u241	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u242	It's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u243	Although we do not reverge in shape, we see ourselves, yes, in the desires and claims of the drivers, so the PSD will be on the side of the resolution of this problem, not impermissibility of the two draft resolutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u244	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u245	Mr Cecilia Meireles now speaks for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners here who have expressed their will and desire to see their profession recognized and a specific career. On this issue of career creation in public administration, I believe that the most important thing is relative justice and equity. What does this mean? It means that the creation or extinction of careers must take into account what happens to other workers who perform similar functions, which means that we cannot, nor should we, have a proliferation of careers and an endless number of careers, because this will always lead to situations of relative injustice. On the other hand, we cannot equate everything, putting everything in the same bag, without recognizing that some workers to whom it is required most obviously have to see that greater requirement recognized. Secondly, as regards progress, the position of the CDS is known in this area: the assessment that has already taken place must be taken into account and the assessment that has already been taken into account. Thirdly, I would like to say that we are not opposed to the draft resolutions aimed at the recognition of this career. I just remember that the House should not just resolve one or another specific case, it should require the Government to look at all the concrete cases in Portugal. in this matter, the current government created many and many expectations and perhaps the fact that it did not match expectations and told everyone, at first, that everything was possible then to tell almost everyone that, after all, it was not possible to explain the degree of challenge that we witnessed by many officials, either by the central administration or by the local administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u247	There are no more inscriptions... [[Pause.]] After all, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real had no indication here. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, as well as the Committee of Workers here today, who demand that Parliament discuss the regulation of the professional career of a single collective transport agent, a demand more than fair. The discussion we have today is not merely legal, it is a discussion about the life and working conditions of 400 workers from municipalized urban public transport services throughout the country. As happened with other special careers, these workers saw their career extinct in 2008 through a decree that, with a blind criterion, integrated them into the general career of operational assistant and in the first position of the pay table. This 2008 diploma, in order to make structural reforms in the Public Administration at any cost, intended only to maintain special careers, and I quote « in cases where the specificities of content and functional duties, and also basic training or qualification clearly justify it ». However, it completely ignored the fact that the career of single transport agents met precisely these requirements. We are talking about workers who, working for shifts and during the nighttime, have to drive daily in the transit of cities and ensure the transport of hundreds of people in security, which means that we are talking about a profession that, apart from being physically and mentally weary, requires a huge responsibility and forces these workers to make a set of sacrifices in their personal and family lives. At the same time, this is also a very demanding profession of the point of certification and training which are required from the outset for access to the profession. According to the information we have had the opportunity to collect from the petitioners, at a meeting, so that a worker can exercise this profession, for example, must hold, in addition to the driving licence, the certificate of transport of children and the certificate of fitness for drivers. These certificates and trainings have a cost, which is often charged to the workers themselves, and in some cases the validity of only five years, may amount to €2500, or even €5,000 at the beginning of the career, and between €250 and €700 in subsequent renewals. These costs are incompatible for workers included in the first position in the remuneration table, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that this fair requirement is corrected. These workers perform specific functions that are not comparable in any general career, so they should never have been excluded from special careers. The ideal would be that today we were discussing bills for the creation and regulation of the special career of single transport agent. However, we realize that, as proposed by the CFP, the phase of negotiation with the representative organisations of workers should not be burned, which is the responsibility of the Government. For this reason, we will follow up with the favourable vote on the proposals submitted by the PCP and the Left Block and we will make a commitment to follow closely the compliance of this recommendation by the Government, with the aim of presenting, in the event of non-compliance, a bill that creates and regulates this special career. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u249	Now, yes, we have come to the end of the discussion on this point. [[Pause.]] Mr André Ventura is still missing. I'm sorry. It's not a chase. You have the floor, Mr President, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u250	I would never imagine something like that, Mr. President. [[PSD and PAN laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u251	I know you don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u252	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting the petitioners. We are talking about one of the most unjust classes and, yes, more legally persecuted in our country, and it is the one that deals, every day, not only with one of the most important ideas that our modern society has but also with some of the dangers that modern society has most. Both in progress, both in training and in professional costs, this is one of the most affected and most unfairly treated careers in our country, but it is also — and I did not want to end without saying it — one of the most paradigmatic cases of how the Socialist Party destroys, promises and does not comply. In 2008 the government of José Socrates basically destroyed the career and, when he returned to the opposition, promised to restart it and recast it. Now, once again, they will close the doors to this elementary justice. The arrival will therefore be next to either the Left Block or the PCP projects, because this is not a political or ideological issue, it is a matter of justice for these men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u253	Now, yes, it is time for us to proceed to the vote. I ask the services that prepare the electronic system to proceed with the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 213 presences, so we have quorum to vote. The gentlemen. Members who have not been able to register electronically will have to signal to the Bureau that they are present at the end of the session. Let us therefore begin by voting in general on Law No 12 / XIV / 1. a — transposes Directive ( EU ) No 2017 / 828 on the rights of listed shareholders in respect of their long-term involvement. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 105 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — The creation of an early intervention recruitment group. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 173 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government create the recruitment group in the area of early intervention. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on Resolution Project No 207 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The creation of an early intervention recruitment group. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] This diploma falls to 8.The Commission. We then vote on two applications submitted by BE and the NAP, respectively, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 60-day period of the Bills No. 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April) and 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the composition of the National Firefighters Council, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 115 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a rural advisory council. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 204 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u254	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u255	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u256	Mr President, it is to announce that on this vote and the previous one we will present a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u257	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote on two requests submitted by the NAP and BE, respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, without voting for a 60-day period of Bill No 145 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the restriction of night flights, except for force majeure and 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 212 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the creation of a special career as a single collective transport agent. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD abstentions, CDS-PP and PS André Pinotes Batista, Cristina Jesus, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra, Raquel Ferreira and Tiago Estêvão Martins.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as a single collective transport agent. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEN, CH and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and PSD members and PS André Pinotes Batista, Cristina Jesus, João Gouveia, Pedro Coimbra, Raquel Ferreira and Tiago Estêvão Martins.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 258 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government requalify EN 225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the overall vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 191 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the imposition of standards against abuse in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security, cleaning and other services, ensuring compliance with labour law and the legal regime of the transmission of establishment and 252 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government stop the work in the field of surveillance and cleaning. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We continue with the overall vote on the final text presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on draft resolutions Nos 28 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government assess the relevance of the introduction of sixth grade in pre-school education establishments and 47 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the conditions for the effective possibility of 6th anniversary of pre-school education in the public network of the Ministry of Education. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on three opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. Please, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u258	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Leiria, Case No. 568 / 14.4BELRA, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Raul Miguel Castro ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u260	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 1958 / 18.9JAPRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Hortense Martins ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u262	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Case No 1958 / 18.9JAPR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members decided to issue an opinion authorising Mrs Anabela Rodrigues ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u263	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u264	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u265	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u266	Mr President, just to say the following : in the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft resolutions Nos 191 / XIV / 1. a, BE, and 252 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, the CDS votes in favour. I think I indicated abstention, but the mistake was mine. I think it is irrelevant to the final outcome of the vote, but it is only to be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u267	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes also asked to use the word. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u268	Mr President, just to say that I was present in the vote but I did not register.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u269	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Nuno Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u270	Also to announce my presence in the votes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u271	Be registered, Mr. President. Mr. Carlos Brás, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u272	Also to confirm my presence in the votes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u273	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Castro, do you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u274	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u275	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr. José Soeiro, is it also for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u276	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u277	All right, Mr. Deputies. Mr. Ricardo Vicente, would you like to speak for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u278	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u279	Be registered, Mrs. Member. Mr Joaquim Barreto, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u280	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u281	Mrs. Monica Quintela, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u282	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-13.u283	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now end our session. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 18, for the 15 hours, and the agenda consists in the evaluation of draft resolution No 304 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the national palliative care network and support for patients, their families and informal caregivers in a specific context of palliative care. This is a legislative agenda for the PSD, with a possible vote at the end of the debate. Good weekend and until the week. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
