ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 36 minutes.]] Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u2	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 375 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, exempting from registration rate in the system of registering regulated establishments the entities responsible for the creation and maintenance of "campaign hospitals" and related structures, which falls to 9. the Commission, with connection to 13. the Commission, 377 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Suspends Articles 16. o and 40. that of the Financial Act of the Autonomous Regions, in order to provide the Autonomous Regions with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the disease pandemic COVID-19, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 378 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Referral to the Autonomous Region of Madeira for the payment of the charges arising from the PAEF loan, in order to provide the Region with all the financial means possible to cope with the effects of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, which falls to 5. the Commission. Resolution No. 451 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government measures to defend the sustainability of the river Tejo and to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 63 / 2019, which falls to 11. the Commission, 452 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Guarantee for increased supply of public transport at the time of defination and acceleration of the implementation of the national strategy for the use of bicycles, which falls to 6. the Commission, 453 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reinforcement of investment in the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 454 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to combat racism, xenophobia and racial discrimination, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 455 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends the provision of adapted masks allowing to include deaf or hearing impaired persons, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of recognition measures for workers of the National Health Service involved in the fight against COVID-19 disease, which falls to 9. the Commission, 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the flexibility of the financing line Credit Social Investment, which falls to 10. the Commission, 458 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — National campaign to renew the anti-racist pact in Portuguese society, which goes down to 1. the Commission, and 459 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for the formulation of fair prices to the producer and to the consumer, which fall to 7. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u3	Mrs. Members, at the first item on the agenda, we have a debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme together with the evaluation of Resolution Projects Nos 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Supplement to the 2020 Stability Programme with the presentation of a social emergency programme and diplomatic action for its European financing, 441 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of concrete measures enabling responses to all Portuguese affected by the pandemic, 442 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: fighting the virus and its use, ensuring the development of the country, and 443 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, include in the recovery plan of the economic, social and health crisis caused by COVID-19 the strategic option by a model of recovery based on investment in combat and adaptation to climate change, non-application of austerity measures and measures to combat installed interests. To open the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Planned in the monitoring process of the European Semester, the National Reform Programme ( PNR ) was this year conditioned by the temporary coincidence with the COVID-19 pandemic, and therefore opted for a simplified version. It is — we must recognise — an incomplete document, but it is possible right now. in this National Reform Programme, what we propose is the maintenance of the essential strategic route defined by the government in the Great Plan Options, approved with the 2020 Budget. Afterwards, and as soon as the conditions that I have already mentioned are more dissipated, we will present a revised development strategy in the light of the impacts of the pandemic and which will necessarily incorporate, in the first instance, a recovery plan. To place the 2030 Strategy, incorporated in the Great Plan Options, which we present, we recall its four strategic domains. The first group is that of the so-called « twin challenges » adopted by the European Union itself and which we naturally include in our strategic plan: Green Deal, Green Growth and Climate Action, translating a link to the objectives of decarbonisation and sustainability and a bet on growth opportunities, while never forgetting to incorporate the dimension of the fair transition, especially in regions and sectors most affected. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the digital transition and innovation, which, in fact, showed all its relevance in mitigating the social effects of physical confinement in the connection between people and as a decisive instrument in teleworking and telemedicine practices. instead, it was also visible, so often in a very raw way, the negative potential of social and economic marginalization of those who remain behind in this process of transition. These challenges are added to two other challenges, which still persist and affect our development capacity. They are, first of all, the problems that have to do with people: the demographic challenges, but also the social inclusion and the fight we have to pursue to the inequalities of all kinds, dimensions which, in fact, have to be widely strengthened in a framework of greater social cohesion requirement. And finally, the territorial imbalances — some territories closer to the Atlantic range, naturally faced with problems of external competitiveness, but also other territories more than the interior which require processes of social cohesion and internal cohesion. These four strategic agendas will now, of course, be joined by dimensions of urgency, repair and recovery to the exit of the crisis. Of course, for the resuscitation and recovery of the productive chains and sectors that have emerged from the most fragile pandemic: tourism and all its related activities, services and proximity trade and all the traditional sectors exporting our economy. But also to stimulate the strengthening of strategic autonomy, i.e. the country's ability to supply and guarantee independence in terms of products and goods that ensure its own survival, and also its contribution to the Union's own success. I leave a final note for Community support. We have used and will continue to use the flexibility margin guaranteed in the Community funds through initiatives by the European Commission itself. We have acknowledged your work, in particular that of the Commissioner responsible for cohesion, but we recognize — and I fear - that the amount and nature of the support received is still clearly insufficient. For the immediate future it is essential to implement what was decided at the last European Council on the next multiannual financial framework and on the recovery plan. It is urgent to clarify the nature of the instruments, the overall financial dimension of the package and the timetables for their availability. To conclude, I wanted to stress the importance of two key words for our recovery response strategy: trust and investment. It is necessary to increase the trust of people and people, institutions, businesses, their workers, entrepreneurs and also in public policies and the state; to build confidence in the defination and resumption of activity; to generate confidence in the economy, with the promotion of public investment, while meeting collective needs that are unsuitable, and the creation of incentives and conditions of private investment response for relaunching and gaining dynamic guidance for their competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will be key questions, which, together with the resources that need to come from European solidarity and the quality of the strategies we have learned to achieve in the near future, will determine the success of the response so that we quickly resume the dynamic of interrupted convergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I would just like to say that the electronic system is open for the purpose of registering the quorum of votes. I therefore ask the services to deal with this matter quickly. The Bureau shall record six entries to request clarification from the Minister of Planning. Mr Minister, how do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u6	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u7	Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the Minister of Planning with regard to the fundamental basis for the next challenges ahead. And the basis for overcoming these challenges is indeed growth, which, as you know, in recent years has been very driven by companies and private sector workers, in particular. Mr Minister, I think this recognition and thanks are fundamental because they are the cracks in the economy, they did help to make the country's accounts balanced. There is no other crack but them, much less any other minister can be considered a crack in this fundamental role that they have had and that they will have to have in the future. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, when we speak in the future, 'growth' is the fundamental word that gives us several options, but if you ask any worker what the main risk to his job is or if you ask any entrepreneur what the main risk to his company is, the answer will be this terrible pandemic that we all live in. Mr Minister, for the assessment you have made and for the future prospects, it makes every sense to ask: how and for when is the increase in investment in health spoken here? Because the Minister does not speak of 'how' or 'when' and that would help mitigate the risk to economic growth, to businesses and to workers. Mr Minister, I would also like to tell you what, in the view of growth, is the context of business costs. I see that, in this document, it mentions what licensing procedures are. But if they are not actually executed, these context costs will be a serious problem for companies. And one that I do not see here reflected, which is the excessive business information that entrepreneurs have to provide, where an accountant is practically a finance official. And all these combined costs make it possible to pay less wages and that companies have less means available. Now, Minister, these are easy reforms, they are cheap reforms, let's say so, and they have a high return. So I think they have to be priority. Mr Minister, let me also tell you what companies are currently operating, even those who have not resorted to the layoff they are selling. in this context, they are fundamental and among them there are many exporting companies. Let me tell you that as far as export is concerned, in this decade we had the economic cracks to make exports grow from 30 % to 43 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), Minister. So we have to push them. And in credit insurance with State guarantee, we need to look at the European Union market. in this document, Mr Minister talks only about markets outside the European Union. Now we have 70% of what is the production of goods from our country to be sold to Europe of 28, to the European Union. I ask you whether or not we will be able to include the European Union market in state-guarantee credit insurance because this is essential to support companies that have this activity turned to this territory. Mr Minister, with regard to liquidity, support for the economy, and in the form of the lost funds, if we recover the words of the Minister for Economic Affairs, when he says that today's lost funds are taxed tomorrow, I would say that there could not be any greater contradiction with what I hear that Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, does when he goes to Brussels and asks for deep support for Portugal. It seems that the government wants businesses and families to divide, but the government cannot be indebted. So let us speak with one voice: we need that the Recovery Fund comes from Europe, that the money that we may have to support our economy may be completely lost, Minister, and that it will be speedy. Lack of liquidity today will be a major problem tomorrow. Today's lack of liquidity can make workers and businesses, when the economy opens, unable to open doors. So, Minister, if we expect this money to come through the European Council and what will be distributed by the European Council, when do you think it will come here? Are you gonna be there in time? You think we're gonna have those instruments? Minister, time is precious. The cracks of the economy, the real cracks, can't wait. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u9	Mr President, you have greatly exceeded your time, but, as you do not agree with the time of your parliamentary group, there is no problem. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Miguel Costa Matos, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, after three years of convergence, we are now faced with an exceptional time. In the near future, this House will appreciate an additional budget and the particularities of this Stability Programme and this National Reform Programme are fundamental to, without causing noise, affirming the broad policy lines of priority in combating the crisis. This Stability Programme and this National Reform Programme make it possible, in a context of uncertainty, but, essentially, they tell us about the measures that, in good time, protected employment and income. It is that, with so many Portuguese seeing their lives in suspense, it is a real programme of true stability and just reforms in the various security layers that it gives families and businesses. If it is fair to recognize the enormous resilience and innovative versatility of our companies, it is also necessary and just a commitment to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises where so much of our community life is organized. We welcome this programme because it is well aware of the social cost that it would have if we failed some of these commitments. But we also welcome it because it gives the right priority to public investment, to decarbonization and to combating inequalities and to strengthening the social state, which was crucial to the success of countries in the fight against this pandemic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u11	Mr President, Minister, I ask, then, what would be the consequences if some here refused that countercyclical policies could have their way. I wonder if, instead of having a population of social stability, economic promotion and climate action, we had a return to the programmes of instability, austerity, privatization and emigration. Mr President, Mr Minister, according to the well-known think-tank Bruegel, in 10 European countries analyzed, Portugal is the second largest fiscal stimulus and the third most adjourned tax. I therefore ask: when the opposition tells us about measures already taken, and it distracts us with the New Bank, is all « pain of elbow»? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u12	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State, Minister of Planning, in the Stability Programme, the Government refers to the allocation of EUR 226 million and EUR 500 thousand for a digitisation programme on equipment and support for telework and teleeducation. The NAP considers this amount to be positive, given that, according to the National Institute of Statistics, at least 50 000 students have no access to the computer or the Internet, and this money allows us to start filling up this failure. However, it must be remembered here that, in order to make a serious digital transition in education, it is also necessary, among other things, to ensure a uniformization of school management software — since each one uses different applications — to ensure remote access to these applications, to ensure effective security systems against cyber attacks — since the health crisis has greatly increased these attacks — to ensure a renewal of the existing machine park — which is completely obsolete — and to ensure training, with a view to the need to adapt teaching methods to this digital transition. On this issue, I would like to leave you two questions. The first is the following: can you give us more details on what is really involved in this digitalisation programme in education and to what extent and to what order of priorities will all these measures be included? The second is this: to what extent will the government involve metropolitan areas, inter-municipal communities and local authorities in this process?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u14	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Minister for Planning, what has happened in the last two months has revealed that not in a pandemic situation with serious economic impacts such as the one we are experiencing in the European Union can disguise its nature, which is all but a project of solidarity. The only concrete response of the European Union and the euro area continues to be to push States towards greater indebtedness, which will then be subject to the same rules and constraints that have in the past led to the CFPs (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes) and troika programmes, of poor memory for the Portuguese. In the face of this real failure of the euro institutions and the European Union, the Government insists on subjecting the country's options to the so-called « Brussels prior visa », presenting these two instruments of submission, which are the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. I ask you, Minister, if you do not think that the requirement of these programmes, when we are in the midst of an unprecedented situation that requires each country to take options about its future, is proof of the unmovable bureaucracy and bureaucratic orthodoxy of the European Union and its institutions and its total disparity from what is the needs of the States and peoples of Europe. And why is the document not known with the European Commission's guidelines for the development of stability programmes? Is it confidential? Is this the move away from European bureaucracy in relation to citizens? Mr Minister, the fact is that the Government has decided to deliver these programmes, although without committing itself to macroeconomic scenarios, transforming these documents into an account of the measures already taken under the COVID-19. We are talking about competitiveness in these programmes. But how can we want to be competitive, if the support for the economy in Portugal is very low, alongside the support that exists in other States? We are the fifth country with less support! Germany, as a percentage of the Budget, has three times as much money to support its economy! By this way, we still have no measures that reach our business fabric, which is essentially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. I ask you whether you do not think that what is going on is not the convergence that you talked about in your speech but, rather, an emphasis on differences and inequalities between Member States. I ask you, too, whether you think we should wait for the European Union's solutions to fall from heaven, or whether, on the contrary, we need, regardless of the European Union, or despite it, to respond to national problems and demands in response to the COVID-19, either in strengthening the SNS (National Health Service ), whether in the recovery of public investment, national production, employment and income, which are essential to leverage the national economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u16	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the pandemic caused by the COVID-19 disease has largely affected public health in a health crisis of dimensions never before seen in our lifetime, and it has already affected social and economic life a little around the world. Portugal is no exception and the forecasts point to an abrupt and severe fall in economic activity for the next few months, with an absolutely cross-cutting impact on all sectors of activity. So also the documents discussed here today, at the present time, obviously cannot neglect an extremely difficult context in which they are presented. Therefore, the responses to this crisis must also be very different. I have already said this on several occasions: past revenue cannot in any way be worth this crisis. They cannot because they are based on austerity and have already had disastrous results. And even though many today cry against austerity to have been implemented a few years ago, there are specific guarantees and proposals that solutions will not go so far. From that point of view, the European dimension of the response to the crisis has a fundamental role, both for good and for bad. Everything will depend on the political choices that are made from now on. I would therefore like to ask you a question about the Community funds. How does the government plan to carry out the revision of the funds in a pandemic context? We know that public investment will be an essential part of economic recovery, so priorities must be very well defined and must respond to the very specific needs of populations, such as health and mobility, but also the maintenance of the fight against climate change. It is not too much to remember the debates that have taken place, not as long ago as that, because the European Commission has chosen to cut into the funds of cohesion or agriculture, for example. And this option is no longer viable and would be incomprehensible to everyone. The next multiannual financial framework must now be reconsidered and take into account the urgent needs of this pandemic crisis. So I also ask the following: what will the government defend in this matter? Are you going to defend the increase in cohesion and agriculture funds? Will you defend direct support to help the economy, specifically small and medium-sized enterprises? Another question I had to ask you has to do with the SURE mechanism. The Minister has said several times that this mechanism would be important to finance employment protection measures, such as the layoff measure. It has been a very much-spoken mechanism by several rulers, but we already realize that, like other supposed solutions that have arrived from the European Commission, it may not even come in time to respond to the problems now. In fact, the Minister himself admitted it on May 12, two days ago, saying that the funds for this programme should only be available in September, and even that might not be true. In addition, in our view this mechanism has an additional problem, which is this: support will be granted through loans to the Member States, it is said that « in favorable conditions », but what that means is more debt to accumulate. And that has nothing to do with, it seems to us, the so-called European solidarity which has been talked about so much. The Minister mentioned exactly European solidarity here, but the proposals being put forward are based on « one hand to take the other». I therefore ask: does the Government not consider fighting for support programmes and mechanisms that are based on direct support, since there is capacity to do so? It is that what has not happened is a political option. That is why I would ask you what this government will be doing about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u18	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Portugal has experienced growth over the past four years above the European Union average, having achieved historical results in investment and exports. These results are due to companies, institutions, and also to appropriate public policies and support from Community funds. However, through the COVID-19, the growth path of the Portuguese economy was interrupted and, in order to cope with the COVID-19 and resume growth, Mr. Minister of Planning, Community funds are essential. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u20	Among the various measures taken under COVID-19, the Government adapted Portugal 2020 and responded to three key areas. First, it responded to thousands of promoters with approved projects by accelerating payments. Between March and April, Portugal 2020 paid more than EUR 500 million. Only payment to companies represented almost twice what was paid in the same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u22	All this, with people in telework, with a very big commitment from the teams. And so I would also like to greet all the workers, all the figures working in the management bodies of the Community funds, for the exceptional work they have developed to bring money to companies. Secondly, in addition to the acceleration of payments, the Government unilaterally and universally suspended payment of reimbursement benefits by companies to Community programmes for one year. In March and April alone, companies stopped paying EUR 71 million, thus allowing them greater liquidity. All of this, without bureaucracy and the need for justification by the promoters, before the management authorities or intermediate bodies. Thirdly, the Government has responded to the need to support, in full, essential projects in the fight against COVID-19, including tests, fans, personal protective equipment and also for scientific research, and has also ensured funding for social charities projects. Since this action was important in the immediate future, however, there are still challenges that require response and that remain, some of a conjuncural nature, others of a structural nature. That is why, Minister for Planning, I leave you with two questions. First: can you inform us when it is planned to open new tenders for support, in full, to micro-enterprises, so that they adapt their activities and establishments to the requirements of COVID-19? This is a very important issue for micro-enterprises. Secondly, and last question: is the digital transition a priority of the government, is it still with this Community framework that Portuguese schools will be more digital? Will we have more computers and more digital manuals available to our school students? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u23	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mr. Minister of Planning to respond, I would just like to inform you that 141 are already registered. Ladies and gentlemen, for the purpose of voting quorum. Get the conclusions of this number! Now, yes, to answer, Mr. Planning Minister Nelson de Souza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. I will try to be concise in the answers and answer most of the questions. Mr Nuno Carvalho, welcome the promotion of public investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since it has strengthened the needs of the State to reduce context costs and invest in health, we fully agree. The cost of context is, in fact, and will continue to be, a permanent effort to create conditions for companies to find favourable circumstances for investment, and we are on the arm in this matter. The investment in health, which was carried out in recent years, gave the results we obtained in this pandemic crisis. What we have done and we will continue to do, certainly, is continue this effort and perhaps even strengthen it, but we have had good proof of the resilience of our health system, tested with this enormous proof to which it was subjected and to which it so well resisted. We will continue to promote public investment not only to meet collective needs, but as we all know, as a fundamental tool for encouraging the economy and obtaining, among other things, dynamizing demand, which ultimately also benefits the private sector. In fact, it is completely wrong in these times of crisis and recovery of the economy, to have these short views, forgive me the expression, to separate private interests and public interests...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u25	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u26	... and do not realize that global economic management can have overall results of dynamic growth in total aggregate demand. Regarding credit insurance issues, we know that changes are under way, in response to the needs that have been most recently signalled to us by the sectors, which are being treated by the Ministry of Economics, together with the Ministry of Finance. As far as the issues of the lost fund are concerned, of course, we are struggling to ensure that, in the recovery plan, most of the support comes with this nature, not through loans or other financial instruments, so that substantial support can be allocated to companies, particularly in the area of investment. It is precisely for this reason that we are fighting for this objective in Brussels and for the debates on this matter. Mr André Silva, we are currently preparing and discussing the initiative on distance learning and on the digitisation of schools. We have had weekly meetings on both the demand for funding and, above all, on the details you have spoken about and on which you are absolutely right, because we have to seek solutions that respond to the problems that have been detected in this distance learning experience and which, of course, have to be corrected. But I must also tell you that we are very concerned, in particular, about the problems of marginalization, lack of access to this system, about the economic resources of people and families, or even about the issues of location in low-density territories not covered by data networks and systems. Turning quickly to other questions, Mr Duarte Alves, we know that in terms of European integration options we do not agree on certain aspects, but we can also share some doubts about the opportunity to conduct or continue this process of the European Semester rigorously in the same way as it would be conducted in other circumstances. On questions raised by other Members. Members, and since I have no time to be able to reserve the intervention time of the Minister of State and Finance, I would like to point out that I fully share the position on the concerns of preserving the cohesion funds and the common agricultural policy within the framework of the multiannual financial framework. We will be careful that, in this more globalised discussion of the financial framework and the recovery plan, cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, particularly the second pillar of the latter, they are not again disadvantaged; on the contrary, we will be careful that, as a whole and in an integrated way, they are added, even to the strategic value that they have demonstrated, as a response instrument, in response to the crisis that the European Commission itself has presented and implemented. Therefore, we fully agree, so we will do, and we have already done so, in the discussions that are under way. As regards the issue of decision-making timings, of course, we need good tools, good drawing of instruments, but in fact we are also in a hurry, we have urgency in the response, until the problems have already occurred and are happening and the financing needs have already existed and still exist. However, the urgency of the response is not in fact compatible with the complexity of the assembly which we must also acknowledge exists by the European Commission. And we must also realize that the final solution must be the subject of consensus and, more than consensus, by unanimous agreement on the part of a collective composed of 27 Member States. It is therefore this issue that often leads us not to take positions that may, later on, in any case, make our claims impossible. This has always been the case in the European area and in the discussions, especially on these issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u27	Mr Fernando Negrão, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unexpectedly and in the middle of the pandemic, the country is experiencing a seemingly recent problem that should force us to demand a sense of responsibility and maturity. This is because the serious situation that the country is going through does not feel sorry for strange « political crises ». The last thing we need is that those with political responsibility today are not at the height of the dramatic moment that the Portuguese live.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD does not ignore, nor could it ignore, the absolutely abnormal conditions under which this Stability Programme has been drawn up and is presented. Without projections or macroeconomic frameworks, the impact of the measures is summarized. We find ourselves here today trying to discuss normality in absolutely abnormal circumstances. Today we are talking about stability, the creation of foundations for economic development and growth, but we are doing so under an inevitably fragile state, a weakened economy, a weaker group of citizens, many of them under truly worrying conditions, and that is leaving marks, and deep marks, many of them living in the shadow. There is a case of increased domestic violence, which is estimated to have increased, on average, 60 %. In this period the State has resigned from any deterrent role of these criminal practices, suspending all surveillance and protection mechanisms and not considering this control as a first necessity, which should have been included in the minimum services. We see the situation of our elderly people, neglected at the edge of the epidemic and closed for time undetermined in the silence of their homes, when they gave themselves to them. See the case of child protection, when we were warned yesterday by the Portuguese Committee for UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund), saying that, and I quote, « thousands of Portuguese children signalled as being at risk or at risk were not present accompanied during confinement». It is also clear from the fact that the DECO, between 18 March and 11 May, received 3600 requests for assistance from families in financial difficulties, and at the top of the concerns is not the provision of housing credit, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the lack of money to buy « basic things», such as food, or to pay for water, light or gas accounts. Ultrapass — we expect — the period of greater health alarm, is time to focus on the economy, but above all, to focus on people. It is time to build without propaganda maneuvers, and not party agendas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u32	These are the times when the state and government cannot fail, under the penalty of seeing us installing among ourselves a cloak of misery that will reach more and more people. Attention is given to the continuing deterioration and unprecedented pace of the labour market, with 1900 new unemployed registered per day, with more than 600 firms in layoffs per day, involving more than 4500 workers. All social support must be driven to avoid the worst, which would be to join a pandemic crisis, the collapse of the economy and the failure of the social support system. We have to stop this from happening! In addition to the State, there is the indispensable support of organizations such as the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity ), the mercys, Caritas, the Food Bank and others that, in solidarity with civil society, have multiplied initiatives as never before seen, advancing, or replacing, official entities. These, very well, have alerted the Government and the official authorities for delays, for unnecessary bureaucracy, for inefficiencies and, above all, for the marginal concern that people's problems have been addressed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What better example is there than layoff, when we learn that 30 % of companies did not receive any support until last week? In social security, it is necessary to say'sufficient'! Enough excuses for inefficiencies, enough technical failures that mortgage the lives of thousands of Portuguese, enough uncertainty. It is time to rebuild with the notion of the deficiencies of the past. It's time to redo what was wrong. We well know that the National Health Service has been one of the main victims of public investment policy that has characterized the last four years. It is not enough to announce measures, it is necessary to realize them in good time and with results, without technical failures, without unnecessary bureaucracy, without excuses! Every day we are experiencing dantesque scenarios of families, many of them middle class and who managed to live sustainably, which the crisis pushed for misery. To this end, the Government must move forward with a social emergency programme based on equity, social justice, the rebalancing of public accounts, but above all on safeguarding family income and restoring Portuguese business fabric.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u34	The Government has a duty not to fail the Portuguese and therefore this social emergency programme must, in due course, present the identification, quantification and timetable of implementation of a set of concrete measures that can minimize the impact of the social crisis that Portugal is experiencing. I did not want to stop without a word for the authorities, for the municipalities and for the parish and for the crucial proximity aid role they played at this stage. Often, it was the local power that replaced the central power in the protection of people and goods. It was the authorities, the parish and the municipalities that allowed the state to fail a little less to the citizens at this critical stage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u35	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u36	And we cannot in any way ignore the careful, dedicated and remarkable work that has been done and taken over by the Regional Governments of Madeira and the Azores, who have been able to control the effects of the pandemic, which, as you know, could have had even more devastating effects in those regions. We all have to be part of change and reconstruction. Finally, using the wise words of the President of South Korea : « this does not end until it is finished». [[PS and PCP rice.]] Therefore, let us pay attention to the other and, above all, available for help, aware that the aidee could be any one of us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u37	To request clarification, Mrs Vera Braz of the PS was registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr Fernando Negrão, it is with some surprise that I hear your intervention and that I hear that the measures that have been implemented do not seem to be meeting their expectations. Why? Yesterday, at the hearing we had with Mr Finance Minister on the Stability Programme, the PSD Member, with regard to the concrete measures that have been adopted, said that, and I quote, « in the essence of what has been known so far, we can differ in some aspects, but on the basis of the principle we agree ». It seems that we have some division here about the vision of the measures that have been implemented by the government in the fight against this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We agree that there must be a future recovery plan, an economic plan in which, as mentioned in the project presented today by the PSD on the Stability Programme — which basically agrees with the Socialist Party's view — there must be coordinated and joint action within the European Union, i.e. we have a single market free of movement and it is important that we do not forget that our companies and much of their production depend on exports. Therefore, Mr President, the question I leave you with is whether you really agree with the measures that are being taken, which serve and have served not only to combat this pandemic, but also to meet the disastrous impacts it has caused on our citizens, our companies and which will be used to initiate a growth path that is imposed not only in Portugal, our country, but also in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u39	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u40	Mr President, you said that the measures that have been implemented will not have met my expectations. Let me tell you that my expectations do not matter at all, what matters are the expectations of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u41	All right! [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u42	And the expectations of Portuguese are, in fact, the following: the principles are good, the error is in execution. Madam Member, let me tell you that it is not new to us that the Socialist Party and the Government normally do things wrong. [[PSD applause.]] That's happening! Just look at the lines of people looking for food. And what has the government done? You haven't done anything, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u43	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u44	We haven't seen you guys do anything. [[PS protests.]] Your criticism, Mrs Deputy, regarding my speech, reveals two things. First, they have become accustomed to hearing criticism, and that is bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u45	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u46	Secondly, they confuse the principles with the implementation, with the act of « putting hands in the mass», of doing things and of responding to what is necessary to the Portuguese people who need more support and more help. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, although we should discuss today the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, what we are discussing today is the non- stability programme and the non-national reform programme, not even presented here by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Finance. We should be aware of the seriousness of the moment we are discussing this. We are experiencing the worst crisis caused by a pandemic, but also the worst crisis of many decades. The economy is now fighting to open gradually. Many workers strive to maintain their jobs and many companies struggle for their survival. Our maximum concentration, the highest concentration of the country, the government, the Parliament, should all be in recovery, recovery and reopening. In fact, what we have here with these documents is the Council of Public Finance to say that the Stability Programme simply does not comply with national legislation and does not comply with Community legislation. What we are discussing here is not a Stability Program, it is an activity report and even that quite imperfect one. UTAO, Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, expressly states that Portugal is the only country in Europe that does not disclose or makes macroeconomic projections or public finance projections. This independent body, translating, says that the government has no idea what is going to happen in the economy - and apparently does not want to do - nor does it know how we will be able to apply the resources of the country, the resources of all of us, which are limited, very limited. Apparently, he's more busy discussing other priority issues. The CDS does not accept or comply with this apathy and presents here a project designed to think of those who are in Layoff, who are already receiving only two thirds of the salary, to whom austerity has already arrived, in those small entrepreneurs who do not know whether they will be able to open their business, in those who have lost their jobs and do not know how they will be able to go to the supermarket the following week. They must be our priority, and this is the debate that should be happening here today. Therefore, the CDS does not stick to the words and presented a draft resolution with three priorities: first, economic recovery and economic recovery; second, a social emergency program, because those who are most affected by the crisis cannot stay behind; third, lifting of containment measures in security, recovering what is late in health and eliminating digital inequality in education. The pandemic is still a threat and the European response, we will be frank, it is very uncertain, but we can and should focus on what depends on us and on us alone. At the moment, we have a government that is moving between discussing Europe or discussing itself, leaving for Portugal and for the Portuguese who are living a very difficult time a mere footnote. In the face of difficulties, what we see is more concerns about guilt than about solving problems. And when we had to be discussing a serious stability programme and, indeed, a reform programme, what we see is, frankly, a minister of finance in minimum services and a prime minister with the contracts he signed on behalf of the country himself. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's concentration must be in recovery, recovery and openness. It is in this sense that the CDS presents not only words but concrete proposals, which, in fact, we will continue to present during this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u49	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In the face of a government that maintains the submission of the country's budgetary options to the previous Brussels visa, even in a situation like the one we are experiencing, the CFP presents, in the form of a draft resolution, the options of an alternative policy that responds to the situation caused by the COVID-19 and that breaks with submission to the Brussels dictatorships, opening up a path of national sovereignty, development and social progress. In order to combat the impacts of the epidemic, the use of it is being made and to ensure the future of the country, Portugal needs a policy that ensures employment, which defends wages and the rights of workers and the people, which strengthens public services, promotes national production and ensures investment. In an attempt to ignore the real dimension of the economic and social problems facing the country, the Government is launching the idea of the so-called 'opening of the economy', without, however, responding to fundamental questions that arise, namely the risks of mass bankruptcy of companies and the collapse of economic sectors and ranks; the significant reduction in the purchasing power of the population and its social and economic impacts; the problems and limitations in public services, which prevent the answer that would now be necessary; the processes of further concentration and centralisation of capital, antagonistic to national interests. For the CFP, the only way that opens a sustainable development perspective, capable of resisting threats and uncertainties of the future, is the path of the replacement of rights and income, the strengthening of public investment, providing the country with the infrastructure it needs, is the dynamisation of the national production apparatus, replacing imports by national production, is the strengthening of public services, is the release of the country in the domain of monopolistic groups and the recovery of public control of the strategic sectors of the economy, options which are not compatible with the submission to the rules of the European Union and the euro. The CFP therefore proposes short-term measures, which at the same time ensure future prospects for the country. Measures such as the prohibition of redundancies, the payment of whole wages, using a public fund financed by the Budget, the extension of social support to which there is no one day left for the other, the protection and protection of the health of thousands of workers who guarantee essential functions, measures to support farmers and fishermen, ensuring income to whom they continue to supply the country. Measures to ensure that there is indeed support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, from the outset, the creation of a public fund to support the treasury of microenterprises that does not go through ineffective banking intermediation, the recovery of public control of companies and strategic sectors particularly threatened by the present situation, such as TAP, the dynamisation of strong investment in public services, breaking up with underfinancing, lack of staff, degradation and privatization. There are 64 recommendations, in several areas, that we put to the country. They are not worth the number, but by its content, because they are the options that the country needs to respond to current problems. The reality has shown that the country needs an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that breaks with the ties and conditionings that prevent our development. This is the option that PCP places on the table. Instead of continuing to obey a European Union that shows no interest in responding adequately to this new reality, we need to choose another way to fight the virus and ensure the development of the country! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u51	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Carlos Brás, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u52	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, the CFP, through you Exa, brings us a proposal recommending that commitments be made to the European Union be made to the favas. Now this is a time when cohesion is claimed in the national territory and between Portuguese and also among the Member States of the European Union. Belonging to the European Union obviously implies, as we all know, alienating certain parts of sovereignty, always maintaining our identity and always defending solidarity. The defence of national interest is compatible with the single currency and with the European Union and the future of Portugal is defended within and outside the European Union. The options of the CFP ( Stability and Growth Pact) are also compatible with that same national interest and the CFP cannot claim in European instances, in particular in the European Parliament, subsidies and then come to this Parliament to propose the breach with the European Union. There must be some consistency between the positions assumed outside and within the country. Therefore, Mr President, I can only understand this proposal as being for internal consumption of your party. But the CFP has already shown that it knows how to do more and better, and doing better in this case, honourable Member, is to give voice to the party, it is to strengthen the party's position in the European bodies and not try to undermine the European project. Our efforts must be made within the European Union and Portugal must be part of the solution, of the good solution. Mr President, I would like you to explain to us whether the CFP defends that Portugal must leave the European Union and should break with European treaties. That is what I would like to see clarified. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u53	You have the floor to answer Mr Duarte Alves from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your question. He referred to solidarity, a word that is very much heard in the propaganda of the European Union, but it is a propagated solidarity which we are not seeing. Anyone who looks at the European reality and the reality of the policies being implemented by the institutions of the European Union and also of the euro sees that solidarity is a mirage, there is no. The CFP places as a necessity for the country to break with the mechanisms of submission which are determined by these covenants, by these treaties that push us to more debt so that then that debt is subject to the same Troika and PEC adjustments, which the country knows for the worst reasons. How is it explained that at the moment we are currently, the ECB ( the European Central Bank ) can lend directly to States and lend to banks and that after that States can finance higher interest rates? How do we keep the pacts that will push us into these troika-type adjustments? How can there be no strengthening of cohesion funds? In view of this reality, what is required is to put on the table a break with these mechanisms and with these impositions and, even, the need to recover monetary sovereignty, which would be so lacking in response to a situation like that we are living. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u55	Mr André Silva, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We all understand that the health, social and economic crisis caused by the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) brought some unpredictability. We cannot accept that the government presents us with a sort of draft focused on political marketing, concerned about the day-to-day policy and without a strategic vision for the country's recovery in the post-COVID-19. We cannot accept that IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), European Commission, Banco de Portugal or universities can make forecasts of scenarios on the development of the Portuguese economy, debt and deficit and the Government tells Parliament and citizens that they cannot present a macroeconomic scenario. This position is unique among the countries of the euro area, resulting in an unprecedented lack of budgetary transparency and distorts those who should be the objectives of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Plan. In times of crisis, a government is called for clarity and transparency. In both documents the absence of a strategic vision for the country and the recovery of the economic, social and health crisis caused by the new coronavirus. What we expected was that the Government, following the guidelines of the United Nations ( United Nations ) and of the institutions of the European Union, would wage a structural change in paradigm and in the construction of an environmentally sustainable and climate-neutral economy that would place people and their needs in front of the established interests. Now, the National Reform Plan does not place the fight against climate change as the central axis of the recovery plan for the post-COVID-19 and, on the few lines in which this fight refers, forgets the need of the country to adapt to the effects of climate change, which are the greatest challenge of mankind. This is a document which does not implement or timetable measures, no longer to speak of its justification in the light of studies assessing its economic and social value. Since the Government has presented a National Plan of Accounting Reforms and without the reforms that the country lacks, the NAP brings to this debate a proposal with a clear vision for the country: the strategic option for a model of recovery based on investment, combat and adaptation to climate change, non-application of austerity measures and measures to combat untouchable interests. The NAP therefore proposes a commitment to renewable energy, energy efficiency and energy poverty reduction, including through incentives for micro-production, solar energy production and renewable energy storage. We defend the bet on telework and sustainable mobility, with improved public transport network, incentives for active mobility and support for the development of cleaner technologies. In the area of agriculture, the bet should be local production, in proximity, in biological mode, with low intensity in the use of pesticides and water. But today we must not fail to emphasize that we hope that in this Stability Programme the Government will not be hiding a austerity programme with increases in taxes and cuts in wages and pensions. The NAP therefore proposes that, in order to address the enormous increase in expenditure associated with measures to combat the economic, social and health crisis, the Government adopts courageous budgetary options, which place people and the environment in the forefront of certain established interests. If the exemption on oil products costs the country more than EUR 500 million per year, the government that has the courage to put an end to these perverse subsidies. If corruption costs the country per year EUR 18 billion, the Government which has the courage to adopt a plan to combat corruption which provides for effective measures and deepens transparency. If we pay three times more than we should for road PPPs (public-private partnerships), the government that has the courage to renegotiate these ruinous contracts for the country. If we lose EUR 236 million in taxes each year for the Netherlands, the government which has the courage to work together with the European Union adopt mechanisms to combat money laundering and tax evasion and electoral phenomena based on tax havens. If the New Bank holes have already cost the Country EUR 3 billion since 2017, the government that has the courage to renegotiate loans provided for the New Bank so that no new injections will occur during the health crisis. Revenue sources are not lacking to the government, only courage is needed to act. When they vote on the NAP initiative, all parties will have the opportunity to say which side they are on. If on the side of an extractive and productive economic model that brings us to the climate emergency and to the depletion of ecosystems or to the side of combating climate change and building a green economy. Whether on the side of austerity and sacrifices for the same as ever, or on the side of the fight against unjustified benefits to the untouchable sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u57	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Stability Programme is presented in one of the most serious and critical moments of our collective life, in the context of a health crisis never experienced by any of us, a public health crisis that brings tow a serious economic and social crisis. First of all, I want to express the recognition that is due to Portuguese and Portuguese for the form and the civic spirit and collective responsibility they have experienced and experienced this particularly difficult moment,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as well as a word of appreciation to all those who, in the front line, had a decisive role in containing the spread of the pandemic. For them, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the moment we started to experience the process of defining and recommencing economic activity, although in a framework of great uncertainty and very unforeseeableness, the Portuguese Government, fulfilling its internal and external obligations, presented the Stability Programme to the Assembly of the Republic. This is a time without parallel, so models and practices cannot be the same as normal times. For this reason, it would be very useful to debate that those who have the function of doing technical studies had the humility to recognize this evidence. To make predictions at present, more than produce plausible and credible information, as the current government has used us — and forgive me those who have ventured to do so — would be nothing more than a mere guessing exercise that might frustrate or condition the trust of economic agents. It has chosen the Government, and in our view, to bring to the Assembly of the Republic a Stability Programme focused on the detail of the measures that have been taken in the fight against pandemic in different aspects — public health, strengthening of the National Health Service, social support, protection of employment, families and housing, capitalisation of businesses, as well as its financial size and budgetary impact. We are all aware that the financial effort is enormous and that a large and strong programme of economic recovery will be needed, which will necessarily have to count on the contribution of innovative solutions, also generated in the European framework. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the results of the governance of the Socialist Party allow us today, both internally and externally, to be in better condition than in the recent past to respond to this immense challenge. The results in employment, economic growth, the reduction of public debt, the balance of public accounts — I recall the surplus of 0, 2 %, so criticized — are indicators that unequivocally support what I have just said. But we held ourselves in the Stability Programme, which clearly gives us the size of this effort, particularly in measures with budgetary impact: in public health, EUR 500 million; in support of families, a monthly impact of EUR 141 million; in support of economic activity, EUR 700 million per month and EUR 500 million per single benefit; approximately 1% of GDP, close to EUR 2000 million. As regards measures with financial impact, without budgetary impact, I highlight the extensions of tax obligations, which amount to 3, 71 % of GDP, 7, 8 million euros ; credit moratoriums, 11, 351 million euros, about 5, 35 % of GDP ; credit lines with State guarantee ; and other liquidity support measures, more than EUR 4 billion. I also refer to Portugal 2020, the European Investment Strengthening Funds amounting to around EUR 1, EUR 29 million. In summary, it is more than EUR 25 billion, equivalent to 11 % of GDP. This reality, as well as its financing, will necessarily impose a supplementary budget. The Government has already stated this and has committed itself to presenting this budget during June. This will be the budget year which will have the chance of those who have already presented four State budgets without the need for corrections, and who has always fulfilled their budgetary forecasts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the appropriate and possible stability programme at the moment, intended to list and describe the effort being made, the basis for the supplementary budget, which will be the budgetary policy instrument to respond to the pandemic crisis and the social and economic crisis, relaunching the economy in order to enable us, as soon as possible, to return to economic growth and social welfare. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u59	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This should be a debate on the Stability Programme. But what stability program? It is not possible to discuss a document which, in fact, is not. The Public Finance Council and the UTAO are as critical as we are: this document does not contain minimum information, it does not have macroeconomic or budgetary scenarios, it does not comply with European guidelines, nor is it transparent. I would like to know how the Council of Ministers approved a programme that is no more than a list of measures related to COVID-19 with almost no numbers. Have the Ministers read the document at least? Portugal will be the last country to deliver the programme to Brussels and the document is not even in a position. this time we certainly do not run the risk of finding us the good student of Europe. As for the National Reform Plan, the Government says it will prepare an economic recovery plan. And the question is, when? It is that planning to resume is urgent and so yesterday the Liberal Initiative presented its programme of resumption, with dozens of measures that could well inspire you. The European Commission itself highlights the lack of structural improvements in several areas, among them — many! — the financial sustainability and transparency of public undertakings, the reduction of the administrative and regulatory burden on companies, the reduction of restrictions on highly regulated professions. We're still tied up in bureaucracy. It is urgent to decomplicate Portugal, but none of these documents will help us to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u61	Mr José Luís Ferreira, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme which the Portuguese Government has decided to present to the European Commission, The Greens start by recalling two elements which, not precisely making part of the content of the documents, cannot, however, remain out of this discussion. The first element is to remember that both the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme are part of a set of instruments that formally express the submission to which our country continues to subject itself to European institutions. The second element is to remember that in particular the decision to accept this kind of « prior visa » of the European Union vis-à-vis the options and priorities of our country had only the acceptance of PS, PSD and CDS-PP. Indeed, whenever this House discussed transfers of sovereignty to the European Union, it was these political forces that said « yes sir, get transferred ». And so, too, with regard to budgetary sovereignty, which is, moreover, the key issue of any people in terms of sovereignty. Now, from the perspective of the Greens, it has long been time for an assessment of this set of submissions, where the European Union knows what our country's priorities are and not the Portuguese and its representatives. And as many times as they intend to run away from what is obvious, in this context there is a fact from which it is not possible to escape. As long as we remain subject to the impositions arising from the application of the euro rules, no matter what remedies are made here and there, they will always be programmes conditioned abroad and which, as we have seen in the past, are far from responding to the problems of the country and the Portuguese. Moreover, as the crisis caused by the COVID-19 is making it clear, the policies which had as a background this "visit previous" have always made more part of the problem than the solution. And they did more of the problem not only because they represented, as they continue to represent, serious obstacles to the development of our country and of the people of Europe in general, but also because they came to accentuate the differences between the countries of the European Union themselves. In this respect, it is not surprising that the Member States, in the middle of the pandemic, continue to be linked to the fulfilment of the European Semester's timetables and criteria and, at the same time, the indebtedness presented to them by the European institutions as the only means to finance the increase in public expenditure resulting from the pandemic and, of course, from health expenditure. Still, we do not fail to comment on the content of the documents under discussion, particularly with regard to the National Reform Programme. Let's see. In the chapter on the sustainability of resources and energy transition, the document intends to continue efforts to transform the landscape and the remuneration of ecosystem services that promote the conservation of nature and biodiversity. And we say, very well. It's just that we don't realize where the construction of Montijo's airport and its impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity is so noble. Next, the improvement of soil quality is noted, which promotes its revitalization and recovery, particularly in the case of environmental liabilities. And we say, very well. Only that the government continues with the ProSolos law in the drawer and there is no means of taking it out. Finally, the document highlights the development of sustainable agriculture, but the Family Agriculture Statute is still waiting for better days to come out of the paper. As for the rest, what the Greens consider essential is to relaunch the economy in a just and sustainable way, which responds to the social and environmental challenges ahead, but that these responses have as a guiding light the interests of the country's development and the well-being of the Portuguese and not guided by external taxes. what we need is to bet on our production, which is, in fact, the only way to defend ourselves from the external factors that we do not dominate, but which condition the economy. Above all, we need to regain our food sovereignty, whose emergency has been reinforced in the face of the crisis we are living in. And if it is true that our country has all the conditions to promote economic growth where the economic component is added to the social and environmental component, with a productive activity of quality and respect for our natural resources and heritage, it is also true that, while we are subject to this level of conditionalisms and constraints of the European Union, there will be no Stability Programme or National Reform Programme that will promote truly sustainable growth. [[Congrats from PCP MP Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u63	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is very clear to us that the problem is not what is in the stability programme document, the problem is what is missing there. And I must say that macroeconomic scenarios are always worth what they're worth. We are not concerned about the information that goes or is not going to be validated by Brussels, which concerns us whether the government has a medium- and long-term response to the approaching crisis - and which is already installed - as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The idea that the Government has reiterated to wait for confirmation of the crisis is a dangerous idea. The crisis is already confirmed and we know it is serious, the only question is how serious this crisis will be. We already know that credit lines are not enough, in an already indebted economy, to send thousands of workers to layoff, perpetuating and normalizing low wages. Social support must be extended—and now! — to ensure that no one enters poverty, and therefore the Left Block proposal for an extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance. It needs to be done now! — find forms of support for microenterprises who do not access credit, and therefore the proposal from the Left Block is a direct, largely lost support to maintain wages in microenterprises. We know that, in the medium term, none of this will come and will suffice to recover the economy. We want to know what the investment programme is, what the government's long-term strategy for economic recovery. To that end, it is not enough to say that the investment plans that were already planned will be maintained, knowing that some of them are disastrous, such as the construction of the new airport or the wrong decision to build a circular metro line in Lisbon. It's gonna have to do more, 'cause nothing's gonna be the way it was again. It will be necessary to convert productive sectors into crisis. There will be a need to rethink public services. What is the new role of education? What is the new role of health, care for the elderly and patients? What is the new role of public services and what investment will we have to do? What is the role of the essential sectors and how will we control the essential sectors? How will we change tax rules to a minimum of morality in how companies contribute to the recovery of the country? In view of this need, the Government is also wrong to say that it wants to wait for what will come from Europe. European rules have been a conditionant, a restriction on the development of the country, and they continue to be. So far, what has come out of the Eurogroup is useless. It is so useless for the end of economic recovery that no country agrees to use the mechanism. I take this opportunity to congratulate the Portuguese Minister of Finance for deciding to refuse the mechanism presented by the President of the Eurogroup. You did well to refuse him! This mechanism would be dangerous for the stability of Portugal. The question we have left in this debate is the following: besides waiting for what will come, besides waiting for the crisis to come, besides waiting for Europe — which will never come and which we know will not come as expected — what strategy, what is the government's medium and long-term commitment to the country? The discussion is not about this Stability Programme, the discussion is about the supplementary budget that will come there and about what will come after that supplementary budget, whoever the Minister of Finance is. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President : - You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Hortense Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u65	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, we all know that we are facing an absolutely exceptional crisis and therefore it would be impossible that these documents were the same as those of the past. This Government has presented a strategy, has given a fundamental response to the crisis to support the Portuguese, and we can congratulate ourselves on this response, which was essential at the level of the National Health Service, which is recognized internally and internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I think we agree on this, Mrs Deputies, because the National Health Service is absolutely essential for all Portuguese. And it was this government, with the support given in terms of consensus in this Parliament, that allowed this response to be capable and essential in relation to this pandemic. But this pandemic crisis is not yet overdue and the investment that has been made has only been made because resources have been saved, in particular EUR 2 billion in interest, as a result of good management at the budgetary level made by this government, led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa and the Minister for Finance Mário Centeno. We have to say it. Certain public accounts have allowed this investment, which we must necessarily continue to do. That's what the Socialist Party wants to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has invested in equipment, in materials supporting this pandemic and also in infrastructure at the hospital level, with which the government has already committed itself. And it was also invested in a plan presented to strengthen the National Health Service, which we want more and more. This National Health Service has responded to Portuguese and has been praised, for example, by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) on the question of the National Vaccination Plan, on the issue of obstetrics, on the fact that we have one of the lowest infant mortality rates in the OECD, on innovative responses such as telehealth, telemedicine, answers that are not only for the COVID-19, but also for existing needs that have remained and that have been somehow neglected, although the necessary ones have been prioritized. We must continue in this care movement and I am sure that we will have this consensus to fight together for a better and more effective National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u66	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u67	Mr President, Mrs Hortense Martins, certain public accounts led to almost 50% of public investment being to be executed in 2018. If, today, the country has difficulty, for example, in which sanitary rules can be met in the Sintra line trains, thanks to the right public accounts, which did not allow to buy new trains for the Sintra line. We know that the government's initial response was important and we know how important the investment made in human resources in the National Health Service over these years. That's not at stake. What is at stake is that the economic and social crisis is worsening and the government cannot live from the initial measures it has put into practice. The question is this: what will now be done to combat this worsening crisis? That is the question we are asking, to which this document does not answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u68	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister of Finance: Today we should be discussing what measures we will take to compensate that nearly a third of companies that have not yet received the support of the layoff or those professional orders that have been left out of professional support. This programme does not respond to that. We were surprised. As John Paul Correia would say, «we were caught by the back». In view of what is most important today, let us look at this programme and see one thing: that it does not contain the fundamental data. It does not mention the evolution of public debt, nor even the loss of tax revenue, which leads us to question, Minister — and perhaps you can explain this to this House and to the Portuguese — today, whether or not there will be an increase in taxes very soon. Why didn't you want to tell us what the loss of tax revenue is? I believe it is the «Ronaldo das finanzas», but it does not perform miracles! So it's better to tell this country and this House that taxes are going to increase, if it's going to increase some. I wanted to end by saying the following: I hate to be that boring uncle who asks unpleasant questions at Christmas dinner, but, Mr. Minister, in the midst of a crisis of these, we are all at home watching on TV Mr. Minister with the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister with you, the President of the Republic calling there, no one to attend or to attend... Tell the Country there: has he resigned or has not resigned? Will you resign or not resign? Are you going to continue or go to Banco de Portugal? I think the vast majority of Portuguese want to know whether our "Ronaldo of Finance" will continue ahead of the motto, manage the crisis or leave. It is a more than fair question that the Portuguese ask you today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u70	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CDS believes that, at the moment, in the absence of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, which is what we should be discussing, the Government, at least in what it presented to us in place of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, should have had the concern of presenting clear measures for the moment we live and, from the outset, what the CDS has claimed since the beginning of this crisis, which is a real social emergency programme. We have already said this and that is a significant part of our draft resolution: how do we feel that the economy should regain its pace and how employment should, too, resume the cycle that was growing. In terms of social economy, in terms of social emergency, it is very clearly necessary to help families, who, more than ever, need to know how to reconcile their family life, support for the family, support for children and the elderly, with the performance of professional activity. It is necessary to reactivate the network of social canteens, because, unfortunately, there are people currently hungering in Portugal. It is essential that we react to this network, so that this situation ceases to exist as soon as possible. For the unemployed, there must be a vocational training programme that realizes that the economy will not be what it was again and that vocational conversion must be a priority for this emergency programme, so that people can find employment in the future. It is necessary to help people with disabilities, because, in crisis situations, their exclusion is aggravated, and private institutions of social solidarity, which, in this context, when they had to make greater efforts than those who did, of course, in another situation, had an increase, according to the agreement made with the State, less than the cost of increasing the minimum wage. It is essential that this Government assume its responsibilities. And taking on your responsibilities is not letting anyone stay behind, it is approving and practicing a real social emergency program. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u72	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These two documents under consideration, both the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, show us that the Executive only aims to meet the European Semester schedule, because both documents only summarize those measures taken and voted on in this plenary, without a strategic vision and above all without looking to the future. In an environment like this, of health emergency, unemployment, clearance, poverty and increased vulnerability of thousands of families, it is important for us to have an effective look at tomorrow. This tomorrow is only summarized in what the Executive claims to be its economic recovery plan. So, if this exists, we must ask ourselves: Is it ensured that austerity measures are not applied? Are investments considered to help mitigate the effects of climate action? Are investments in public services also planned? It is that, yes, this is a strategic vision, particularly as regards investment in the National Health Service, which is absolutely essential in the current emergency context.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u74	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u75	Mr President, Minister for State and Finance, Mr. State Secretaries, Mr. Members: The National Reform Programme aims to identify and overcome state blockades. And there are structural blockades in our economy. There is too much tax burden, too much bureaucracy, too much debt, and we have a country that needs less taxes, less paperwork and more liquidity. Today, we live times of austerity in the country. Austerity has come to those workers who are in layoff regime and who have lost income. Austerity also came to those entrepreneurs who had to close their businesses. Austerity has also reached those who are unfortunately in a state of unemployment. That is, thousands of Portuguese people are living in a state of austerity. in this context, it is important to ask you, Minister for Finance : what minister do we have in Parliament today? Do we have a resignation minister? We have a minister who will only stay in the government until June 15, how was it announced? The country and Parliament demand an answer from the Minister and the Government. Mr Minister, please clarify: are you, or are you not, a resigner?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u76	Mr Mário Centeno has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of the Stability Programme marks every year the European Semester, an annual cycle that allows the countries of the European Union to coordinate their economic policies. But 2020 is a different year, not because coordination is today less important—to the contrary, it is today more important—but because Portugal, Europe and much of the world have been devastated by a pandemic, causing enormous uncertainty and instability in all dimensions of our society. We presented Stability Programs between 2016 and 2019. In all of them, despite the reservations of other entities, our estimates were always the ones that drew closer to reality. In fact, we have even been overcome in all these years by reality itself. We were always the most optimistic at first, and the facts demonstrated in all these four years the reasons for this optimism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We arrived at the end of 2019 with one of the largest quarterly economic growth in the euro area: 0, 7 %. We were the country whose growth has accelerated most. For the first time in democracy, we reached a budgetary surplus of 0, 2 % of GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese economy evolved in the first months of 2020 following the same pattern. The known data from January and February show an acceleration of tax revenue, contribution revenue and the generality of economic indicators. By the end of February, the unemployment rate had fallen to 6, 4 %. But in April, the situation was substantially different. The profound change in the action of the State and society as we know it, as a result of the fight against COVID-19, is having a massive impact on the economy, the labour market and the public accounts. We know that this impact is massive and that it does not originate in the economy, nor in the financial system, now more robust and prepared, but we do not know its intensity and extent in time. This is actually one of the most critical moments for Portuguese society in recent decades. The stability programme we present does not aim to respond to macroeconomic imbalances or excessive deficits. The 2020 Stability Programme, referred by the Government to this House, is different from what we have previously presented because the moment we are living is also different. The assessment of the impact of confinement to which the country and the world were subjected will only be possible later. Returning to the path of economic growth and fiscal consolidation will only be possible and sustainable when the health crisis and its economic and social effects are weakened. The Stability Programme presents an estimate of the impact on economic growth of social confinement measures based on sectoral information on adherence to the simplified layoff regime. We therefore estimate that on average every 30 working days of confinement generate an annual negative impact on GDP of 6, 5 percentage points. In order to mitigate the economic and social impact of health control measures, the Government has been adopting various initiatives to protect workers and their jobs and to support companies. These measures are budgeted at around EUR 2000 million per month — 1 % of 2019 GDP, including measures with a single incidence. They add discretionary measures, with financial impact, but without direct budgetary impact, of more than EUR 25, EUR 1 billion — 12, 5 % of GDP, including support for the liquidity of companies, granting incentives, lending moratoriums and incomes and tax and tax and tax extensions. The data available for March and April demonstrate the severity of the breakdown of recorded economic activity. We are now entering the period of gradual lifting of confinement restrictions, which we do not know how long it will be extended. There is certainly a reduction in unparalleled activity in our economy in recent decades. We have no doubt about that. Portugal, over the past four years, has built solid foundations and has gained credibility that enables us today to deal better with this crisis than in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There were four Budgets with objectives met, the biggest reduction in public debt in the euro area in four years, a substantial reduction in private sector debt and greater economic growth and employment in many decades. Over the past four years, Portugal has demonstrated a solidity of its institutions without parallel in the European context. The stability, predictability and transparency of economic policy decisions are essential for confidence and investment. Unfortunately, we have seen a temporary interruption in the process of economic growth. We must neither allow this interim to affect the functioning of the institutions, long-term economic, financial and banking stability and much less social and institutional stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Together, we will regain the future, for which we have worked so hard over the past four years, with truth and responsibility to present all the consequences of the proposals we make. That is how we have always built our stability programmes, that is how this must be read. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u78	The Bureau recorded the registration of six Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. In the meantime, the Minister has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. First of all, Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister of State and Finance, at this difficult time when we are going through a health and economic crisis caused by the COVID-19, it is essential that the Portuguese be comforted with the hope that the Portuguese Government will know what to do to minimize the effects of the crisis. The Portuguese need to rely on the Government's strategy to help them through this period, and therefore they need to believe that the Government has a good strategy. The presentation of the Stability Programme should be the time for the Portuguese to know and rely on the Government's strategy. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Government has not submitted a Stability Programme. The Government has submitted a document which takes into account that it is a Stability Programme, but it is not, as it says, and very well, the Public Finance Council does not contain the minimum information elements so that it can be considered a genuine Stability Programme. The Government is thus failing to respect the Portuguese and this House by bringing to this discussion a document which does not comply with the Budgetary Framework Act, and in particular Article 33 ( 1 ) thereof. the, which determines that the Stability Programme is drawn up with applicable European Union regulations. And today we know that the European Commission's guidelines for this Stability Programme are not those that meet the document that Mr Minister has given.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u80	How do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u81	The Minister yesterday did not hesitate—and very well! — to invoke the importance of compliance with the law and contracts to accuse the Prime Minister of being irresponsible. And notice, Minister, I am not disagreeing with you, I agree with the Minister that the law and contracts are to be fulfilled, but it is the whole law. So why did the Minister today not comply with the law or, better, did he not comply with the Budget Framework Act on Friday? That is why my first question is this: why did the Minister deliver an accounting stability programme, which runs counter to the Budget Framework Act and runs counter to the applicable Community rules, the guidelines of the European Commission? After the novel we saw yesterday, the answer seems obvious to me: the Minister of Finance has given an accounting document, because at this moment you only realize that you are Minister. [[President Adam Silva's laughs.]] I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on the retumbent victory you had last night on Mr. Prime Minister, and now ask you what was the price of this victory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u82	Ask questions about the Stability Programme!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u83	Will you be forced to continue in the government much longer? Did you have to abdicate from Banco de Portugal in exchange for another international position? Or, Minister, will we, from September onwards, have the opportunity to have here, on this side, as a Member, and, at that time, will we have the opportunity to hold such a debate—not between candidates for Members, but both Members—which was pending the election campaign? Mr. Minister of Finance, the fact that the Government does not present to the country a public finance strategy does not remove the budgetary restriction that limits policies to support Portuguese and the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u85	In the current scenario, the budget restriction will not be the value of the deficit in 2020, especially if this deficit results from the situation and from exceptional and transitional measures. Let us hope that they are not permanent measures. However, the budgetary restriction continues. And the binding budget restriction in 2020 will be the financing capacity of the country and the government. And this funding capacity is not unlimited and it may happen that it is inferior to the needs of the economic recovery and social support policies that the country needs. That is why this restriction of funding must be alleviated by the contribution of policies at European Union level: firstly, because the COVID-19 pandemic is the time of history which most justifies the invocation of the values of cohesion and solidarity, which are one of the fundamental pillars of the European project; secondly, because equal conditions of competition on the European market are deteriorating, since State aid is different from country to country, because budgetary restriction is also different from country to country. Therefore, if there are no measures at European Union level, it is also the single market itself — another fundamental pillar of European construction — which is at stake. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you what measures the Government will take, what diligence it will take with the European institutions, in particular with the Eurogroup, so that a European programme of financing for economic and social recovery will be presented and implemented in good time without jeopardizing national public accounts. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u86	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, from the PS Parliamentary Group, also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, as the Government deliberately assumes in the document it submits to this House, we discuss the Stability Plan at a time when the only certainty is uncertainty — the uncertainty of reality without any comparable precedent. And the insofismable truth is that we live today, still in the first phase of the planned defination, starting the second on the next Monday, being still premature to predict how the same will evolve. It is difficult to make predictions, especially about the future, but it is even important that we know how to respond with the honesty and the truth that reality imposes. While they are as uncertain as they are today, both nature and the size and duration of restrictive health measures, the construction of macroeconomic scenarios will always result in a little useful cartomancy exercise. And if this is true for other countries, it is - even more so for countries like Portugal, where tourism weighs significantly on GDP, and therefore they are even more dependent on the speed of recovery of confidence resulting from the success of the pandemic fight. Despite all these uncertainties, of course assumed by the Government in the Stability Programme, I want to leave two questions. Mr President, as well as the team he is leading, has his credit, as he said, the credibility achieved by four Budgets met, the greater reduction in the public debt of the euro area in the last four years and the greater economic and employment growth in Portugal, in many decades. It was a remarkable work in the service of the country, as well, yesterday, in the name of the entire bench, publicly mentioned our Vice President John Paul Correia, words I subscribe entirely. A further budget, which was necessary for the inevitable increase in public expenditure as a result of the economic and employment support measures, will be presented by the Government in this Parliament yesterday. I ask you whether the projections you want to present today will be presented within one month, in anticipation of the proposed supplementary budget law. A recent study of the International Monetary Fund calls upon us all, recalling that the experience of all global epidemics has invariably resulted in an increase in inequalities to date. Quoting the study, if the pandemics of the past serve as script, the cost in the poorest and most vulnerable segments of society will be worse. I wonder whether the Government is aware of this threat to our social cohesion, our poorest and most vulnerable, and especially whether the public policies of this country are mobilized to combat it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u88	It is now Mrs Mariana Mortágua's turn from the Left Block to make requests for clarification. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u89	Mr President, Minister, the questions I asked recently remain. What is the answer for the indebted companies? What is the answer to whom, whether I support it or not, has entered poverty? What is the investment and economic recovery plan? What resources will be mobilised, in addition to that unacceptable proposal from the Eurogroup? What is in this document is not enough, the discussion has to go far beyond these government responses. But there is a subject I want to return to, because it is not a distraction and deserves to be treated seriously. For years now, the New Bank has been presenting astronomical losses, losses relating to a portfolio of toxic credits, which we do not know in detail and which we do not know how it is being managed. After the 2018 astronomical damage has been known, a special audit was requested by the Government to analyse these claims and to analyse the losses which have been attributed to the State guarantee referred to as the « contingent capital mechanism ». The Prime Minister publicly undertook not to make a new injection without this audit being known. The commitment was violated by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister may have gone back but the Left Block does not go back. So what we ask is whether the requirement to have an audit before the injection of more than EUR 850 million into the New Bank is reasonable or unreasonable. Should the Republic or should not require an audit before committing public money? Is it not reasonable for the country to know how these losses and credits are being managed? Or does the Minister think we can trust an administration who wanted to pay himself EUR 2 million in bonus? Oh, my God! Or should we trust an administration that whenever it can charge on the State account on behalf of the Resolution Fund? Oh, my God! Or can we sleep with a follow-up committee that said in this House of the Republic that there were credits to be managed politically in the New Bank, that it was unable to monitor the credits and that there were people, companies, making money with the sale of toxic credits? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, the Republic has the duty and power to know in detail how it spends every cent of the public record and the Government has the duty to obey that requirement, whether it is legal or moral. And, more importantly, you have a duty to respond to that requirement because this is the same government that denies a risk allowance to nurses at the time of crisis, this is the same government that is providing support for green receipts, this is the same government that delays public investment and this is the same government that imposed contractual changes on workers who are in layoff and were forced to accept less than the salary that was contracted. Therefore, this government was obliged to conduct an audit before it injected EUR 850 million into the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u90	There are audits, Mrs. Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u91	This is not an empty controversy, this is not a meaningless discussion; this is a discussion about the Republic, about the duty of transparency of accounts, this is a discussion about rigour, about how we spend public money, is also a discussion about the meaning of political commitments;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u92	Don't be demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u93	... and this is also a discussion about the future of politics, about the future of the economy and how we certainly manage the resources that are ours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u94	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: Dr. Mário Centeno, Minister for Finance, his intervention, by tone and content, was a true political testament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u96	It's the room!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u97	He came here to tell us, tiredly, cheated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u98	Swindled is Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u99	... came to repeat, for the second time, what you did, but already without a trace of hope about what you will do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u100	Will you give me that hope?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u101	That means that we are at a special time. We are at a special moment, at a time when we have a hidden spring, at which we have a pandemic everywhere, at which we have a recessioned economy, at which we have a very serious social crisis, at which we have a stability programme that we all already realize is not, and in which we have a finance minister who is only formally due to the end of these functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u102	We're all here! The honourable Member too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u103	And why? I'm going to say: because the essentials are missing. The essential thing is to say where we are and that's where the Portuguese know where we are. PSD knows where we are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u104	You know?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u105	... because we are at a serious moment, with companies experiencing the most difficult moments that may have passed over in the last decades and with increasingly poor families and diving into a social crisis like, fortunately, there is no memory in our history. But it has failed the essentials, Mr Minister, because it has failed government stability. Government stability was lacking at an essential moment in the politics and economy of this country and political stability was lacking because of the responsibility of the government itself, the government itself, and the conflicts between the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u107	If that were not the case, Mr Minister for Finance, we had not spent the last few days as we had spent, with the Minister for Finance, openly criticizing Mr Prime Minister, with Mr Prime Minister showing discomfort, with the President of the Republic, by the way, taking sides on one side, and then calling to apologize to you, clearly showing the confusion that is in place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u108	You know? You're talking about things you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u109	But there is one thing we know, Minister : when a statement comes out, at those hours, when the Prime Minister is obliged to say that he keeps confidence in his minister, that means that he no longer has it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u110	Do you read? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u111	... because when a Prime Minister trusts his team he does not need to come to the public square he says, because this is a natural act of the government leader. So the fact of having done means that the doubts existed: they existed in society, they existed in themselves and they existed in the Prime Minister. But then, you know, there is something very interesting: you have noticed, from that special statement, that, in this crisis, using a Portuguese saying, Mr. Prime Minister is pleased to be the last to know. Now, this means that there is something here that has to change in governance in Portugal, due to the decency of this country and the way this crisis deserves to be resolved. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u112	We were waiting for that intervention!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u113	To request clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr Minister of State and Finance, allow me - let me address you by confronting you. Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Álvaro Almeida with their own role. Actually, the ladies. Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Álvaro Almeida are not interested in discussing the two reasons that bring us to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u115	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u116	On the one hand, the Stability Plan, which is an essential document to ensure the motivation and needs of a country that has to respond to a pandemic crisis that afflicts populations, businesses, the economic fabric, but also the need to maintain cohesion and unity in that same response. The gentlemen. Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Álvaro Almeida have, in the end, proved useful to their party, as the other useful ones described in the books, supporting a narrative that finds more reasons in the Lost Steps than in the parliamentary debate itself. Mr Finance Minister, we, as an example of the exercise of political function, representatives of a people who are out there and who believe in the mechanisms built by the State as an effective and necessary response to the challenges of the future, but also to the determinations of history — and today we live with one — what we have as our obligation is to know whether or not we contribute to our collective future. We are, of course, here in this House, gathered to ask questions, in the exercise of our function as government supervisor, but also as proposers of the answer needed for the collective future of our nation. I venture to say that in all the interventions we have found various possibilities, more or less torn, but there is one thing, Minister, that we certainly cannot find: the existence of an idea that is in the interventions of the PSD. The gentlemen. PSD Members are not content to leave the state of emergency; what PSD really wants is that the state of emergency, whatever it is, may even be the state of political emergency, maintain and frighten the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u117	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u118	Mr President, Minister for Finance, I would like to tell you that we are very concerned about the dramatic situation in which the country is going through, for which many Portuguese are going through right now, but we are not concerned about psychodramas of the finance minister's political relationship with the Prime Minister. In fact, this is the least likely concern for Portuguese people; what concerns Portuguese people is how they will be able to live by the end of the month, how they will be able to live in the following months and how our country, our economy, our National Health Service will be able to respond to serious problems because, indeed, the country is going through this pandemic. So what we are most interested in discussing here is the national priorities for responding to the economic, social and financial consequences of this pandemic, and what we least want to discuss are documents for Brussels, and I do not tell Brussels to read, I say to Brussels to pretend that it reads because, indeed, that is what we are dealing with. We are here discussing documents required by Brussels, by the financial orthodox of the European Union, as if nothing happened and that is very significant how the European Union is pretending to respond to this problem. What is the European Union's response? We are facing a crisis, states divide and then we will be here to create new troikas, if states do not respect debt limits. That's the problem we're dealing with. Mr Minister will say that we all know about our differences with regard to the European Union, but Mr Minister, that is not what we need to discuss; what we are discussing...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u119	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u120	I shall conclude, Mr President. What we are discussing is what is the answer to national problems, because that is what we are interested in, is to respond to national problems, is not to respond to the European Union. the government is more concerned about responding to the European Union and we are more concerned about finding solutions to national problems. from there the draft resolution we have tabled. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u121	To ask for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u122	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The starting point of these debates on the Stability Programme and on the National Reform Plan should be the state as was our economy in February, on the eve of this COVID-19 pandemic, because we know — and it is true that some want to forget and pretend that they do not know — that we had an economic growth, of GDP, above 2%, the Portuguese economy to grow in consecutive years above the European average, a budgetary surplus, the first of our democracy after 25 April, exports represented 44 % of GDP and the unemployment rate increased sustainably up to 6 %. This was the portrait of our economy and our public accounts. It is very important to say this for two reasons: firstly, because this was the basis which allowed the Government to adopt a set of exceptional and temporary measures, which, perhaps, would not otherwise have been adopted, to help and respond to the needs of families and businesses and also sovereign debt; secondly, because, if it were not, today, the right hand would be here to draw the Government's responsibility for not going further into the measures, because the starting point was not as good as it was and was in February this year. We remember what the PSD said last year in the discussion of the Stability Programme, here in Parliament : it said that the economy in 2019 was going to slow down, that it was a lie the deficit that was foreseen in the Stability Programme for 2019 and that the other indicators would not be met either. Now, for the fifth consecutive time, the government has achieved its goals, exceeded its goals and that is the big problem, the great scourge for the PSD and the CDS,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that they do not find in what is the main, the provision of accounts of a government and a Ministry of Finance, a point to attack or to weaken the work that has been done. Let us look at the exceptional and temporary measures that have been taken. It must be acknowledged that the State has made a colossal effort not only in the time it has taken the measures but also in the financial and budgetary effort that these measures represent. The central state but also the authorities — the municipal chambers and the parish — deserve this word of recognition, because they have been essential partners of the central state, but also the companies, the entrepreneurs, the managers and the workers, who have made a giant effort to accompany everything that is a collective response to this pandemic, as well as families, because many measures are addressed to families. Let us also look at the measures. The layoff covers about 120 000 companies, more than one million workers. The credit lines that are currently authorised, for about EUR 7 billion with State guarantee, we know that can grow up to EUR 13 billion, now waiting for the recovery plan. Many say: « Well, the government, the state here does not make any effort. » It is not true, because these credit lines have a shortage of 12 months and within 12 months, if someone does not pay the loans that are now contracting the bank in relation to these credit lines, it will be the State to assume 80 % of this non-compliance, executing the State guarantee. Let us look at the moratoriums, both for the families, in the credit to housing, and for the companies. Many companies have joined these measures, tens of thousands of companies. Let us look at the deviations from contributions, taxes and social security; let us also look at the Plurianual Financial Framework, in anticipation of payments and reimbursements, the effort that the State machine is making—and I would also like to leave here a word of recognition and praise to all state workers, who have been unequivocally mobilized for these measures to be implemented as quickly as possible—and look at credit insurance, which has raised the guarantee of the State so that our companies can export, so that the ceilings allocated by the credit insurers to exports increase and give confidence. Let us now look at the economic recovery plan, which will, of course, have to be accompanied by an even greater strengthening of the social state. Social responses are already on the ground but must be strengthened because the economic recovery plan does not want to leave anyone behind. This is certainly the great ambition of the Government, which is also certainly the Socialist Party and can be it, certainly, of all parliamentary groups: an economic recovery plan that leaves no one behind, that keeps the bet on public investment, which has grown year after year, with main emphasis on the National Health Service, but also keeping the bet on public transport and education. It is an economic recovery plan that gives incentives to businesses, especially those sectors that are particularly affected and have been sacrificed by this pandemic and for which these responses must also appear in a short time, with the substitution of imports and food sovereignty. Finally, the answer of Europe. The European Central Bank launched an ‘atomic bomb’ in its policy of quantitative easing, with EUR 750 billion, which remained the markets, in particular the sovereign debt market. But Europe — the EIB ( European Investment Bank ), the European Stability Mechanism itself, the European Commission itself — needs to go further because all these European institutions and entities are essential in financing the economic recovery plan we need for the country. Finally, Mr Minister, the question I would like to ask you is: what can we expect with regard to these answers, with regard to the size and time horizon? The companies and the entrepreneurs accompanying this debate would certainly like to get more concrete answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u123	In reply, Mr Mário Centeno has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has come to this debate and to the issues it has put to the government without alternatives, without ideas, indeed, by hand. Mr Álvaro Almeida probably arrived here at this state given the price he paid to be sitting on that bench, but for the accounting performance he made I hope he paid a low price, because otherwise he was deceived or is misleading us. Mr President, you have to tell us first what the price you paid to be sitting there before we give you any answer. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, this Stability Programme is a programme adapted to the current conditions of the economy and to what has been requested by the European Commission in information terms to the countries. There are, and there are, different strategies on the part of different countries. Portugal has adopted a strategy consistent with what we have done over the past few years. Economic forecasts must be credible, they must be signs of certainty, not of noise, they must present ways that are consistent with policies, and that is exactly what we will do — to answer your first question — when we present here the proposed State Budget Amendment Act, the Supplementary State Budget, where we will present a complete macroeconomic framework with the information that is missing. And what information is missing? There is, of course, a lack of information on the European response, in which we must participate and in which we obviously want to be present. The economic recovery plan is an essential piece for us to prepare our economic recovery. At that time, we look forward to having this information and to being able to present to the Portuguese a coherent, complete, credible plan that will prevent, for example, the fact that the OECD has twice revised its forecasts or the French Government has already made three economic forecasts in so many other budgets. We think that is not the role of the government. The role of the government is to prepare measures, measures which it has prepared and has taken, has implemented, which has led to businesses, workers and families. These support obviously has a very significant focus on the most unprotected, informal, self-employed, those who receive the social income of inclusion. In all these areas, simplified measures were implemented, with very rapid access to additional or new support — which therefore did not exist — to all these dimensions of Portuguese, always ensuring minimum, which would allow these workers and these companies to respond to the difficulties of the crises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is, in fact, the impact of these mechanisms, these instruments, which will enable the Portuguese economy to recover and this recovery in some indicators is already happening. For example, when we look at retail sales indicators, indicators that we have very immediate access to, we see that, at the most serious moment of the economic crisis, which was the third week of March, sales using automatic means of payment had a break of 48 %; in the first week after the gradual opening of the economy this fall to 33 %. This is a long way, a path that has to be made with confidence, a path that has to be gradual but supported by all these measures. Finally, and answering a question put to me by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, on the New Bank, I want to make a very quick statement here. The New Bank is an institution that has the doors open. The New Bank employs thousands of workers. The New Bank is the guardian of the savings of millions of Portuguese and it is in the New Bank that thousands, hundreds of thousands of Portuguese companies have their credits. We can't talk about the New Bank when we want to talk about BES. One thing is the resolution, another is the New Bank institution. I will not allow an open-door banking institution as a Minister of Finance to be harmed by a meaningless parliamentary debate. The audits — the various audits, inspections, checks and monitoring committees — have before them any capital injection and any state loan to the Resolution Fund. There is no capital injection into the New Bank without audits. We can and must make decisions with as much information as possible, and that is what we do, but there is no control in these processes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u125	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u126	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u127	It is for a request to defend the honour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u128	Mr President, you have to explain in what way your honor has been offended. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u129	All right, Mr. President. Mr Finance Minister, instead of answering the questions I asked him, instead of explaining to the country why he did not comply with the Budget Framework Law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u130	You'd better go straight to the question of defending honor. What is the justification?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u131	Mr President, my question is that the Minister made insinuations about my position here as a Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u132	So please exercise the right to defend honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u133	Therefore, Mr Minister, instead of answering my question, rather than clarifying the country's position in the Government, rather than explaining why he did not comply with the Budget Framework Act, he began to make hints about how I arrived at the honourable Member. Do you know how I got to the honourable Member, Minister? I arrived at the honourable Member because the Portuguese people elected me, contrary to you, who is only a minister because he was appointed and therefore depends on Mr Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u134	The Minister of State and Finance has the floor to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u135	Mr President, I just wanted to tell Mr Álvaro Almeida that I was elected a Member as you. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, the Portuguese gave more votes to the list where I was on the list than to the list of Members, and that is why I am here and the honourable Member is in opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u136	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our consideration of this agenda item. of the following point is the joint debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs exceptional and temporary measures regarding performances of an artistic nature, within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, and of the Bills Nos 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March establishing exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context, 340 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020 of 6 April establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, 370 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in pandemic and economic crisis and 373 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures affecting the Portuguese cultural system in the context of the epidemiological crisis. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u137	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. We will then start the discussion of the Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal which the Government submits to Parliament and which we are discussing today amends a regime previously approved, the regime set up by Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March, which established, in the context of the state of emergency which we lived, special, particular rules for the reorganization and cancellation of cultural and artistic events held between 28 February and 90 days after the lifting of the state of emergency. It defined this diploma as specific rules for priority for reorganizations — where possible, rearranging cultural events rather than canceling them — and laid down the rule that, in case of reorganization, there would be no reimbursement but the CL ticket would be maintained. Therefore, over the course of this time we have sought to work with all private and public entities to, inter alia, maintain commitments and payments that were already contracted with entities and artists. Raised the state of emergency it was necessary to change what had been enshrined in Decree-Law No. 10 - I / 2020, so what this bill brings again is, on the one hand, the rule of the ban on festivals until September 30, in a perspective in which, as I think we all know, festivals and similar events consist more of an experience than in a concert or music festival. On the other hand, it also establishes in paragraph 2 the possibility of performing some cultural events throughout the country, provided that general rules such as the need for marked places, even if they are outdoors, and the limitation of entries, i.e. compliance with social distance rules that have been issued by the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ). The prohibition is the rule, but what is proposed is the permission for, in compliance with the rules of the Directorate-General for Security, which we are finalizing, to be able to carry out cultural events in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u139	The rules of the Directorate-General for Health!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u140	Yes, from the Directorate-General of Health, I apologize. It's been a few days in confinement...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u141	It's okay, we get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u142	Finally, it is also to mention the rules on the issue of securities which are established here. In other words, one of the issues that was raised when Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 was published was about what would happen to the ticket, i.e. the protection of consumer law. Our proposal to issue a voucher for the value corresponding to that of the ticket prohibits fees and allows those who already have a ticket to enjoy a valley for a festival or cultural event of a similar nature over the next year. These are the rules that we bring and which represent an amendment to the initial regime, published during the state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end with a very brief note, just to say that it is very important in the Government's perspective to be able to create conditions for cultural programming in the territory in this summer. This will be an atypical summer, as we all know, and it is very important for territorial cohesion and for the trust of people, for the trust of each of us, to feel that there is cultural programming. Of course, it will have to be on a smaller scale, with a smaller dimension, but it is important that it exists and that we can give people the chance to feel that, gradually, normality returns and we can regain confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u143	Although the Minister no longer has time to answer, the Bureau records the registration of Mr. André Ventura of the Arrival to request clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u144	Madam President, I give you 30 seconds of my time to the Minister so that you can answer me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u145	Mr President, please make your request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u146	Madam President, Madam Minister, as my time is very short, and I know that you also have little time, I have to ask you about the exceptions we are going to have, as we know. And we've seen the exceptions go wrong. We heard by Mr. Prime Minister that we are probably going to have an exception for the Front Party! , a festival of the Communist Party – but they are creative and it is not a festival or something similar –, except that we will not have for others. What I ask you is the following : the government will be subject to the same show of 1. the May one, with all the Portuguese at home criticizing and with the President of the Republic coming then saying that this was not what I expected from the 1st. May? I do not imagine to see President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa come to say — even though he has already gone there — that the Front Party! It didn't go so well. Mrs. Minister, you would therefore like to clarify whether or not there is an exception for the Front Party! in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u147	In reply, Mrs. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u148	Mr President, Mr President, for all I know, you have introduced a proposal from the House to this effect. I will await the vote here on the proposal put forward by the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u149	To present the Bill Nos 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March establishing exceptional and temporary response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context and 340 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — In addition to Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020 of 6 April, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to being the first to stop and probably one of the last to return to normal after this health crisis, the culture sector is also one of the last to receive any kind of support. Furthermore, unfortunately, there is no surprise in this circumstance, since successive governments have always treated culture as the poor relative, limiting themselves to maintaining stable precariousness associated with the sector. Given its already known fragility, the COVID-19 therefore had a brutal impact on culture, in its various manifestations. In the case of shows, the impossibility of scheduling in the near future leaves all professionals in this sector in a situation of enormous insecurity. Consider the example of music, in which the overwhelming majority of income comes from live shows and whose season of concerts and festivals would begin now. This period represents an oxygen balloon for the sector, after autumn and winter, times when typically work is scarce. In the face of the current conditions, what is expected is that months after the months of scarcity, they become even more scarce. Consequently, it is intended that there is a specific forecast, an extraordinary support to deal with the reduction of economic activity, specifically directed to the artists and professionals of the show. I believe that we have all anticipated that the precarious situation will be extended beyond the months for which the current Law provides support for liberal professionals in general. We therefore propose that this support should be extended until March 2021. On the other hand, it is important to note the situation of cultural agents who are in the position of partners, since, given the specificity of their function, they will hardly have access to the layoff. With regard to the shows already scheduled, it is important to amend Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020, in the sense that promoters may choose between canceling or reschedule, except in cases where it is not possible to do so, and that in the event of cancellation they must always comply with the payment of the services contracted, until they are already budgeted values. In addition, the agenda of an artist and the entire organization associated with shows lacks a certain advance, so it is proposed that, after the end of the state of emergency and during the next 90 days, the public promoters indicate the date for which they intend to re-schedule. Moreover, the proposal for a law under discussion continues without answering these questions and also creates doubts about other issues. This proposal determines, for example, the prohibition of the occurrence of festivals or similar activities by 30 September, but does not contain any definition of festival, leaving doubts as to which the performances covered, or not, by the principle of the prohibition, in particular whether or not there will be a place for the Front Party! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. And, no, I'm not talking about restricting political activity, I'm talking about everything that happens at the Front Party! in addition. The Government's proposal enables meetings of 200 people and, at the same time, authorizes a promoter who has scheduled a party for a compound with maximum lotion for 100 or 150 people can freely cancel or defer this event. But if there are conditions for performing the show, why give the possibility of cancellation? Moreover, we must say that all measures for the culture sector are clearly insufficient to meet the needs. See the case of the Emergency Support Line to the Arts sector, to which a sum of only EUR 1 million was allocated, now reinforced with €700 000. According to the Ministry of Culture, 1025 applications were received, of which 389 were not considered eligible, 311 projects were supported and, although eligible, 325 had no support due to lack of funds. It is important to say that culture is not just shows and that it is not just musicians and actors who are having difficulties. It is important to look at culture in its various manifestations, look at its people and construct a serious response to the needs of the sector. Finally, when Winston Churchill was asked to cut off the financing of the arts to cover the costs of the war, he simply replied: "So why are we fighting for? Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u151	To submit Bill No. 370 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in a pandemic and economic crisis has the floor of Mrs Beatriz Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Culture, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Under-Secretary of State and Cultural Heritage : On average, 18 artists, more than one production professional and more than two technicians were left out for each canceled show. The figures are an investigation launched by the GDA ( Artist Rights Management ) during March. Another survey, conducted by CENA-STE (Syndicato dos Trabaciones dos Spectacles, Audiovisual and Music Workers' Union), reveals that 98 % of workers had work cancelled due to restrictive measures to contain the pandemic. In financial terms, for the 1300 people who answered the questionnaire, the losses for cancelled works still represent EUR 2 million, only for the period from March to May of this year, indicating the loss of an average revenue value, per worker, of around EUR 1500. A study carried out by the University of Minho reports, and I quote, that "in addition to the immediate losses to which cross- and sectoral measures are not being able to give a full response, at the end of 2020 we will be able to see, in addition to an increase in precariousness, an increase in unemployment among professionals in the cultural sector who had employment contracts, since cultural organisations estimate a reduction of 45, 2 % in jobs and 78, 6 % in turnover". in a sector where work precariousness is the rule and production structures are typically of micro and small size, the deprotection of workers is total. The absence of a specific work and social protection scheme for the sector is particularly penalizing at this time of crisis. As the professionals in the sector warn, if no urgent, consistent and structural measures are taken, the Portuguese cultural sector may suffer irreparable damage from the pandemic. In the Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. the, the Left Block presented an emergency program that reinforced the budget of the Ministry of Culture by 10%, created simplified applications for cultural projects in times of social isolation, deepened support for public and private cultural structures and equipment and, above all, created mechanisms to ensure full compliance with public, national or municipal commitments as well as public funding entities that cancelled or postponed shows, educational services and other cultural activities. Improvements to the emergency measures for the sector have been approved, in particular changes responsible for the entire contract chain. However, despite these amendments having introduced a small improvement in the Government's initial proposal, they continue to fail to respond to essential aspects of the cultural sector and leave the long rearrangement window untied. The strengthening of funding and the limitation of resettlements within a period of 90 days was outside, preventing entities from extending deadlines to avoid cancellation and payment of 100 % at work costs. The Block is again presenting proposals on this diploma and insisting on the following rules, which we believe are essential: cancellations must be paid to 100 % of what would be work expenses, including payment to external workers, independent workers, room workers and educational services workers; redeployments cannot be an excuse to postpone half the payments and thus the ability of people to meet their basic needs; social support designed by the Ministry of Labour must take into account the intermittent condition of much of the artistic work and cannot exclude thousands of professionals from this sector by their closed rules. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u153	To submit Bill No. 373 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures affecting the Portuguese cultural system in the context of the epidemiological crisis ( initial text replaced at the author's request ), Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u154	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: While we were taking advantage of art and culture, within the framework of our confinement and within the framework of health measures, many cultural professionals were being fired and fired, and their rights were not being respected. This, as I said, while we were at home or at work enjoying much of what your effort is. And I speak of effort because, in this very anxious environment, it is important to look at artists and cultural agents, as a reference, to teach us how to relate to the hostile environment, with minimal support, with enormous instability, with enormous labour difficulties, and yet they can create, make art, contribute to society as a whole, contribute to our national history, contribute to our happiness, in the environment of absurd difficulties, resulting from the disinvestment of years and years of successive Executives. These legislative initiatives — in particular my own — refer to exceptional and temporary measures to support the cultural system, in which the aim is to help at least those cultural entities which are experiencing enormous difficulties, with the cancellation and cancellation of shows, the absence of investment and other problems. But we need to understand that many of these exceptional measures—and they are only exceptional because, unfortunately, there was no option at all—should be regular measures to invest. Finally, this Executive has the opportunity to listen to the artists, to hear and to be with the artists. It is that we would not be rigorously advanced to improve the health situation and, tomorrow, there will be no reports,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u155	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u156	...there is no recognition of this complicated time that we are living. We still need to understand that culture is not synonymous with entertainment, culture is knowledge.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u157	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u158	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today brings to Parliament the Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. the, which imposes a principle of ban on festivals and other events of a similar nature by 30 September 2020. The reason for limiting music shows, or others, in the open is similar to that it advises that there are no gatherings of people in any other situation. It is a restrictive and serious measure, but we think it is proportional to the public end to which it is intended. It also allows industry agents more directly targeted the predictability for their decisions, and thus far deserves our agreement. On the other hand, shows in which distance can be secured, i.e. those with marked seats, are not prohibited, through the evaluation of the DGS. For the CDS, the issue has to do with the use of undefined or poorly defined concepts which may result in discrimination and possibly even unintended exceptions. So, exactly, what does the expression "festivals" mean? If they're music festivals, why don't you say it explicitly? What is the term'similar performances'? It is not clear and would be appropriate for the Government — which, above all, proposes a regime of prohibitions and exceptions — to propose clear and exact definitions, so that we know exactly who it is speaking to, and should not do so in the preamble, but rather in the articulate, where it is really relevant. And since this bill will be appreciated in the field of specialty, there will be the necessary way to clarify it. Finally, I cannot fail to make a note regarding a bill that is also here today under discussion, Bill No. 340 / XIV / 1. a, of the NAP, which shall be brought down to its committee. The NAP meets this bill not to support artistic activities but to support artists. Your project deals not with the show but with people who have no income. That is why it is frightening and, in my view, particularly grave, which taxfully excludes the Tauromach show. It is not about public funding for the show. But for the NAP, apparently, support for people, for artists in a precarious situation is two levels: there are those who deserve and there are those who can stay in precariousness and without such support. After all, for the NAP, in terms of pandemic, we are not all united. The NAP can well change its name, if you understand it, for the benefit of all animals but only of some people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Rosário Gambôa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue that brings us here today is the issue that has dominated the debates in this Parliament, i.e. the pandemic and the need for social and economic management of its evolution, in the face of the scourge that afflicts us and the margin of uncertainty that we will attempt to mitigate with the knowledge that science is giving us. In the context of the emergency that was installed, as has already been mentioned, there began to exist, from the very beginning, and was then consecrated in successive states of emergency, a set of specific guidelines aimed at public and mass events whenever they involved the concentration of people, recommending their cancellation, which ended up being imposed. However, this situation has caused, as mentioned here by several parliamentary groups, an absolutely devastating impact on the cultural sector. And when we talk about an absolutely devastating impact on the cultural sector, we talk not only about the promoters of the shows but mainly about an extensive and capillary network of artists, technicians and artists and also about another fundamental dimension, such as, for example, broad spectrum activities such as tourism, which have a huge influence in communities and in the country and which have become in fact extremely affected, as well as cities and territories have been prevented from making the celebrations that consecrated their identity and other initiatives that, however, were building, like festivals, that have become opportunities. It is in this context that this bill appears and it is in this context that the monitoring of the evolution of the pandemic and the follow-up of new phases of mitigation, trying to reconcile what is the supreme interest of public health with, at the same time, interests that have to do with the defense of artists and other associated people. However, the bill, as mentioned here, not only prohibits a set of performances but also determines its exception, with the exception of the inhibition of performances which are not regulated by the recommendations of the Directorate-General for Health. This proposal for a law also stresses an important issue with regard to consumer protection and establishes rules that need to be defined. Notwithstanding the current context, these consumer rights cannot be abolished. The events carried out by political organizations, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have a special status, as we all know. This bill, however, defines and sets its limits. This is, these events, I remember, can only take place in a covered enclosure or in the open air, with places marked and in respect for the lotion specifically defined by the Directorate-General of Health, according to the defined confinement rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u161	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u162	I shall conclude, Madam President. There are issues that can, as mentioned above, and should be more densified in the field of expertise, such as clarifying definitions and limiting ambiguities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u163	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u164	And the Socialist Party is available to analyze, review and accept the amendments. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u165	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without prejudice to the other draft laws, in this debate I shall limit myself to the assessment of the proposed law of the Government, because it is the most relevant and surprising. In the light of the ban on holding « festivals» and « shows of a similar nature », the Government opts to present a unclear, objective and unskilled diploma. So we are obliged to ask: are the three proposed articles/amendments intended to clarify or confuse? Is this diploma a source of solution or a source of new problems? How should it be interpreted? Moreover, when there is a ban on festivals until 30 September, we are asked from the date: 30 September. If the situation is being monitored per week and we are walking towards a gradual defination, why this period so perennial? How to define the concept of « festival» and, worse, how to define the concept of « spectacle of a similar nature»? Average who? Exclude who? Really, does the government want to ban everyone or do you want to open the door for some? What are the limits of the cancellation and regeneration? Who decides? What are the assumptions? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's make it clear. The moment we are living is a severe compression of the fundamental rights of Portuguese, in which we are imposing restrictions on constitutional freedoms and that only an emergency such as this justifies. The Portuguese demand that there be no two pesos and two measures — again! The Portuguese people witnessed — at home and indignant — the demonstrations of 1. the May one, carried out at the blight of one of the alleged guidelines, which, in practice, violated all the rules that imposed upon us and pushed us into confinement. And this diploma is so indefinite and vague that it seems proposed! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an elephant in the middle of this room called « Front Party! », that the PCP disseminates affectionately with the slogan There is No Party like this and that is ready to happen in September, as soon as September. We all know where it is, how many people join together and the model of participation it determines. If there is such rigor/coherence/balance that is required to our rulers and health authorities, it is manifestly impossible to think that a party like this — which I do not know if it is a party disguised as a party or a party disguised as a party — can take place. There will be no St. Anthony, there will be no St. John, there will be no commemorations of May 13, in Fatima. In fact, in coherence, the PSD cancelled the Parties of the Pontal and the Lake Floor in Madeira. Don't insult the Portuguese intelligence again! The PSD accompanies the government in anti-virus measures but does not contain us for freight, mime or compliance of the PS and the government with the PCP or with management! We will always be responsible, but never silent drivers or witnesses of mere propaganda or political exploitation, especially if they come from the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u167	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u168	I will finish, Madam President. The Portuguese were serious, mature and responsible when the time of the emergency came and now they have the right to demand the same behaviour from the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u169	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing is about matters that concern the difficult situation in culture and the worsening of problems that have often come from behind us. We will not lose ourselves, therefore, with the atrocious and invective customs, coming from those who little value or are not truly interested in defending the arts, culture, their workers and the right of all to culture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u172	Let's talk about what's actually under discussion and we're not going into mirror games.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u174	The Government's bill identifies the need to approve a set of measures, taking into account the constraints caused by the epidemiological outbreak in the music festivals sector, and refers to the search for, and I quote, "a balance between the financial sustainability of economic operators and the rights of consumers that, despite the current context, cannot be suppressed or eliminated. Do not keep on seeking. ” On the one hand, the Government considers that the measures contained in Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March establishing exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context are insufficient or must be amended. This is in a framework in which the Government has announced and has already put in place the progressive reopening of all cultural activity. On the other hand, there are specific problems that remain to be solved and which may have a direct or indirect impact on the lives of people who have acquired revenue for the events concerned, the workers of the performance arts, companies and promoters. Thus, the person who bought the ticket is no longer relieved by the cancellation, briefly, of the value of his purchase following the cancellation of the event. There is now a valley that can be used in the purchase of tickets for the same show that is being held on a new date or for other events carried out by the same promoter, but which only provides for the refund in 2022. However, the delay, which was not previously foreseen, is now covered. There is also a question about what happens exactly with the money that comes from who bought tickets. Given that there is no prospect of short-term returns and now that the show promoters are on their side, it is important to ask why there are no defined rules of use. That is, on the limit, and that is a question we leave, can this money be used in the distribution of profits, in the remuneration of administrators? Can it be used in bankruptcy processes? We don't think that's the way it should be. The CFP considers that the money in question should be geared primarily towards the fulfilment of contractual commitments with the show's arts workers and for cultural agents, in particular artists, interpreters and executives, authors, producers, agents and others. As such, considering the elements under consideration, the CFP will abstain in the vote on Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. a, alongside the remaining projects under analysis. The CFP defends, and I conclude, Mrs President, that ambitious and effective measures are necessary and urgent to ensure that all workers, companies, structures, agents and entities of all cultures, performing arts, go through cinema, without forgetting cultural heritage. A framework which was already of emergency cannot be condemned to deal with the immense difficulties that it faces with the same recipes as ever, namely the underfinancing and deresponsibility of the State as first-line policy options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u175	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u176	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : Welcome to another « liberal minute». I could say a lot about this bill, but it is a short minute, so perhaps I will concentrate on what Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has already called « the elephant». in these weeks it has been clear that in Portugal there are children and relatives, with rules for one another and rules. The PCP says the Front Party! it has to take place, because it is not a mere music festival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u177	Nobody said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u178	All right! The Front Party! is a means of financing the PCP, without paying VAT and other taxes, while the normal festivals pay them, something with which the Liberal Initiative wanted to end and was plummeted here in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u179	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u180	We allowed thousands of people at a party festival, but we did not allow five people at a beach area. We allow thousands of people at a party festival, but we do not allow a person to take a sea bath unless he carries a surfboard or, who knows, a PCP T-shirt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u181	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u182	What's the point of this? None, absolutely none! It's the same thing you saw in 1. May. It's pure and harsh inequality! They are rules for normal Portuguese on one side and other privileged rules for those who can or can influence the government. Is this the message we want to pass out there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u183	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u184	Orwell could have been referring to Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u185	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u186	I shall conclude with a quote from George Orwell, Madam President. I think it's an end to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u187	Trotskyista!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u188	Orwell said, perhaps referring to Portugal today, that « All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others». Unfortunately, in Portugal today, we continue with one country and two systems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u189	He's all roundly wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u190	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u191	Madam President, first of all, I would like to say to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa that the position of the NAP is clear: when we talk about culture, we cannot be talking about bull machia and, therefore, in this discussion, there is no place for bull machia. [[PAN's applause.]] Besides, Mrs. Member, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u192	Hello, hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u193	Exactly! I mean! In the midst of so many shortcomings, in the midst of so many people with so many needs, diverting public money to support those who earn their lives torturing animals is not, and will certainly not be the priority of the NAP. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the second item on our agenda, and we will therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u195	Madam President, may I use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u196	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u197	It's about the Front Party! Is that what you're talking about? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u198	No, it's not about the Front Party! , Mr. Deputy. Madam President, I would like to ask the Bureau for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u199	On the conduct of the work, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u200	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u201	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u202	Mr President, in advance of the Rules of Procedure, there was a vote of regret. This regret vote does not appear in the script of the votes that we are voting on here today in plenary. And, being a vote of regret, it had not been covered in the last consensual decisions on votes. I wonder, therefore, why the vote on the Arrival is not included in the votes that we are going to hold today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u203	Mr President, the Bureau informs you, and the whole House, that they have put in several votes of regret with the same object and that they have, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, fallen to 1. the Commission for uniformisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u204	Madam President, may I again use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u205	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u206	To appeal to the plenary of that decision, Madam President. And the reason is obvious: that is not what is in the Rules of Procedure. I admit that this can be decided on a la carte, but there must be rules here and therefore in accordance with Article 82. the Rules of Procedure, appeal to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u207	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am informed is that the votes they have taken were considered and, therefore, when they have considered that they exceed the object, they should go down to their committee. So Mr Ventura insists, but he is not going to solve the problem right now, since the votes have already been sent to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u208	Madam President, may I apologize for using the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u209	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u210	Madam President, in the course of the ongoing discussion, I would like to ask for clarification on the conduct of the work to try... I think that, in the light of the rules, which are new, there is indeed a framework, which is what the President has described...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u211	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u212	Thank you, Madam President. As I was saying, there is a framework, which is precisely that, with more than one vote on the same subject, it may be required that the votes be put down to the committee, in order to seek a consensus, which obviously does not prevent them from coming to the plenary meeting. The possibility of voting in plenary therefore exists, but not at this session, since the Bureau has chosen to go down to the Commission. I think that the regimental point is this and what was stipulated for the votes was the possibility that they would go down...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u213	What regimental point?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u214	The regiment point is that of the rules we've been revising for a short time and that we're...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u215	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u216	It is Article 76. Mr. Deputies, if you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u217	It is Article 75. o, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u218	Madam President, excuse me...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u219	Mr President, we are not going to be here to prolong the matter, because you are not right, since the Rules of Procedure have recently been amended, everyone knows their content, and Rule 75. It's very clear. There are several votes on the same subject, not just yours. There were other parliamentary groups that voted, unless they made a mistake they put in five votes, and therefore they went down to the committee. You want a privileged treatment that you can't have.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u220	If I may, Madam President...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u221	Please say what effect you want to use the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u222	Mr President, with due respect, not only is this not the framework — it may be your opinion or that of some — as I think it is very strange that a weighing vote goes down to a committee, even if it is four or five, without being consensual with the proposers. This already shows a lot of the democracy we have. But let me tell you something else, Madam President. It is that Article 82. the Rules of Procedure, which I consider to be as valuable as Article 75. the — the PS has already sent a lot, but I do not think that it is in the value of the articles — says that « Any Member... » — and I think I am still — «... may complain of the decisions of the President of the House or of the Bureau, as well as of their recourse to the plenary. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, do not come to me with rules of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that I can appeal and that I am entitled to two minutes to say the reasons why I am resorting. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u223	All right, Mr. Deputies. In order, then, to appeal to the plenary, you have the floor to present your reasons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reasons are very simple. We have spent the last few months changing the circumstances of the votes and we all understand why: there were many votes and we did not want them to have political considerations. It was consensual, from the beginning, that the votes of sorrow were left out of this framework. Now, let's start looking at the weighing votes, line by line, and say, "Oh, here's a recital, down to committee." So they're all going down to the commissions! Any day there's no vote that doesn't go through a committee! It's a real terror of what we can do! Any day there is no vote that does not go down to a committee and then they are or are not plunged into committees. But the vote of regret is a vote of consideration about someone who has died and who brings to this House a moment of honor. Making this happen through the committees is, at least, ridiculous, but above all, it was not what had been agreed upon, it was not what had been consensualized and that the press reported as a regulation of votes. So we can proceed in this way today, we may not accept that the vote goes up to plenary, but we are once again undermining the freedoms of Members, and I think that is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u225	Mr President, if your vote of regret, and those of the other parliamentary groups, had indeed been confined to you and to the object of that regret, it would have been scheduled to be voted on today. It wasn't the case. What Article 75 says. the, in paragraph 4, is the following : « The drafts of weighing votes motivated by deaths and which are circumscribed to that object...» — underlining, « circumscribed to that object »! — «... are discussed and voted on in accordance with previous issues». In other words, the votes in question could be voted today, but it was not the case. The honourable Member has already appealed to the plenary and, therefore, we shall vote on the appeal he has tabled, since there is no debate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, CH and IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. We begin with the Vote Project No. 219 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — I regret the death of Master Raúl Cerveira, founder of various associations of martial arts and booster of karate in Portugal, which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u226	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Raúl Augusto Queiroz da Mota Cerveira was born on April 11, 1944, in the city of Lisbon. Master of Shotokai Karaté-Do, has the highest degree in this style, being without a doubt one of the greatest boosters of Karaté-Do in Portugal. He began his practice in 1963, in the only way that at this time it was possible to train karate in Portugal, to interpret illustrations of books as well as to try to apply the techniques described in them. at a time when there were no teachers, instructors or monitors in Portugal, Raúl Cerveira was one of the dynamizers and boosters, formally starting karate practice on April 11, 1964. He graduated from 1. the Dan, in the first Dojo de Portugal, the Budo Academy, in October 1966. His training was interrupted by military service in Africa. He was one of the founders and president of the Portuguese Association of Karaté-Do, in 1980, and in 1985 founded the Portuguese Federation of Karaté and Associated Disciplines, and in the following year won the title Master, awarded by the Ministry of Education and Culture. In 1992, he was also one of the founders of the National Federation of Karaté - Portugal, of which he was president until 1993, and then returned to his direction between 2001 and 2007. Last May 6, Raúl Cerveira left us, but his name, the memories of whom he lived with a man of high value and elegant sense of humor, such as his journey, will be recorded in the history of martial arts in Portugal. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to the memory of Master Raúl Cerveira, addressing condolences to his family, friends and all practitioners in general. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u227	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 225 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PAN, and CH. ) — D. Manuel Vieira Pinto died. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last May 1st, in Porto, D. Manuel Vieira Pinto, Resignary Archbishop of the Archdiocese of Nampula and a major figure in the struggle for the affirmation of the dignity of the human person in contemporary Portugal. Born in Amarante, on December 9, 1923, D. Manuel Vieira Pinto attended the Diocesan Seminary of the Port, where he was to perform his first priestly role as a coadjutor of the Campanhã parish. He then went on to Rome, having worked with the famous Father Lombardi, founder of the movement for a Better World. Having adhered to this important renewal movement, then Father Vieira Pinto would assume responsibility for the performance of this movement in Portugal. In 1967, he was appointed, by Pope Paul VI, Bishop of the Diocese of Nampula, a city to which he arrived in full colonial war. The new Bishop was immediately highlighted by the boldness of his gestures and acts, which motivated the significant animosity of the white population and the broad adherence of the black population. His free and courageous voice no longer ceased to be heard, either in defense of intercultural and inter-religious dialogue, or in the promotion of human rights, was in the call for the recognition of the right of the Mozambican people to be the political subject of their own history. Mr. Manuel Vieira Pinto, showing exceptional gifts of clarity and courage, openly opposed the colonial war and colonialism that founded it and declared its adherence to the principle that all peoples have the right to self-determination. In the face of such manifestations of rebellion, the authoritarian regime, which was to be deposited on 25 April 1974, promoted the removal of the Bishop from his diocese, to which he would only return in January 1975. In the post-independence period, it continued its activity in order to safeguard human rights in circumstances not uncommonly difficult. Already in the final phase of his stay in Mozambique, he made extensive efforts to help put an end to the civil war that devastated the country and began a genuine process of national reconciliation. Starting from his Christian worldliness, Manuel Vieira Pinto was a man committed to the interpretation of the socio-historical contingencies of his time, in view of a transforming action capable of contributing to the strengthening of the dignity of the human being. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Mr. Manuel Vieira Pinto, recalling the man of exception and the citizen of the foreground, and addressing to the family and friends the most felt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u230	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the two draft votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall continue with our votes. Thus, we proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 268 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Classification of cabin crew as a rapid wear occupation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 251 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — By regulating cabin crew activity with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity and ensuring safety and health conditions at work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Then we proceed to the general vote of Bill No 234 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the working group for the legal regulation of the rapid wear professions and the creation of the respective table. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions against BE, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Supplement to the 2020 Stability Programme with the presentation of a social emergency programme and diplomatic action for its European financing. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 441 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of concrete measures enabling responses to all Portuguese affected by the pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 442 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: to combat the virus and its use, to ensure the development of the country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the EPC, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote on Resolution Project No 443 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, include in the recovery plan of the economic, social and health crisis caused by the COVID-19, the strategic option for a model of recovery based on investment in combat and adaptation to climate change, non-application of austerity measures and measures to combat installed interests. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CFP, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u231	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u232	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u233	Madam President, I would just like to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on draft resolution No 443 / XIV / 1. the, presented by the NAP, on my behalf and on behalf of Mrs. Deputies Maria Begonha, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Filipe Pacheco, Eduardo Barroco de Melo, Joana Sá Pereira and Olavo Camera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u234	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS and the PAN, the vote against the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] This bill goes down to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u235	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u236	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u237	Madam President, I would like to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u238	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Be registered. We now have a number of requests to vote. I ask the PAN, BE and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira if we can vote them together. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we shall vote together on the three requests submitted by the NAP, BE and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira, asking for the Committee on Culture and Communication to be discharged without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context, 340 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020 of 6 April establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, 370 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in pandemic and economic crisis and 373 / XIV / 1. a (N insc) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures affecting the Portuguese cultural system in the context of the epidemiological crisis. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on Resolution Projects Nos 120 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take the defence measures of the river Tejo, 167 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to guarantee truly ecological flows in the river Tejo with regular information to populations, 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renegotiation of the flows and exceptional situations contained in the Albufeira Convention, 266 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Review of the Albufeira Convention for the Protection of Fundamental Water Resources to the Country and 271 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government promote the review of the Albufeira Convention, present the results of the analysis of the adequacy of the current hydrometeorological monitoring network and make public the results of the monitoring of the implementation of the plans under the 2016-2021 hydrological planning, as well as the strategic assumptions that will define the significant deepening of bilateral cooperation for the planning cycle 2021 - 2027. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u239	Madam President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u240	Mrs. Mariana Mortagua asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u241	Madam President, it is to announce that the Left Block will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u242	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now proceed to the vote on the application submitted by the PS and PSD, seeking the approval of amendments to the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Other exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease pandemic COVID-19. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to the supplementary script. We shall, in particular, vote on the amendments to the final text of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on this last bill. With agreement from the banks, we shall vote together on the proposed amendments tabled by the PS and the PSD, amending Article 6 ( 6 ) and amending Article 6 ( 8 ). -A of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD and PAN, votes against Members of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] [[(a) the period of submission of the debtor to insolvency, provided for in Article 18(1) of the Code of Insolvency and of the Recovery of Companies; (...) 8 — Paragraph 6(d) and (e) prevails over any arrangements which establish mandatory maximum periods of limitation or expiry, the same being extended for the period of time corresponding to the duration of the suspension.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u243	We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS and the PSD to add Article 5 ( 3 ). that of the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and PSD were adopted against the registered Member of Parliament Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL.]] [[Article 5 Administrative periods 3 — The provisions of this Article shall not apply to the time limits for administrative phases in matters of national order.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u244	We now turn to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the Proposal for a Law No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Other exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease pandemic COVID19. [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of PS, PSD, PAN and IL and with abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u245	Madam President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u246	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u247	Madam President, the result does not change, but in the vote on the Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. we would like to correct the meaning of the NAP's vote for abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u248	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u249	Madam President, will you excuse me, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u251	Madam President, it is to present a request for a waiver of final wording and the deadline for complaints regarding the bill we have just approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-14.u252	We shall then vote on the oral application submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to Bill No. 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Other exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease pandemic COVID-19. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We have thus reached the end of the vote on the Rules of Procedure and our agenda for today. The next plenary meeting, whose agenda will consist of the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister, will take place next Wednesday, 20 a.m. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I wish you a good rest of the day and till Wednesday. [[It was 19 hours and 11 minutes.]]
