ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start our work. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Today we have a very extensive agenda, with many scheduled points. Let us begin, as it is obvious, by the first point, which consists of the joint debate of Bill Nos 400 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Provide the consumer with information on the purchase price to the producer or fisher of foodstuffs, 344 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated measures to respond to the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on the wine sector, 374 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Immediate support measures for small and medium-sized farms which compensate farmers for the serious damage caused by the outbreak of COVID-19, 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sector ( green electricity ), 382 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, 412 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to promote fish flow from artisanal-local and coastal fisheries and to create a simplified public regime for the acquisition, distribution and exploitation of low-value fish in lot, 422 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes the obligation to inform the consumer of the environmental costs of food production, in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 459 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for the formulation of fair prices to the producer and to the consumer and 477 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — By drawing up and fixing a minimum price to be paid to the producer and by combating unfair practices in commercial relations between large distribution and food suppliers. To open this debate, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The imbalance of forces between all the agents involved in the food chain, from production to the moment it becomes accessible to the final consumer, is evidence, and the producer, in particular the small producer, is undoubtedly the weakest link in this whole chain. Producers claim that they are paid fair prices for the food they produce and for which they need to invest. And how many times are the small agricultural producers obliged, on a matter of survival, to sell their products below the price of production to be able to peel them and not to have any more dramatic damage? This situation was quite evident with the COVID-19 pandemic. The drastic reduction in demand, due to the closure of much of the restoration, public markets and small trade, and the difficulties imposed at the level of direct sales, have resulted in serious difficulties in the flow of products, many of which are perishable. The immediate need to drain production has led many small producers to stay in the hands of unscrupulous speculators, who take advantage of this dramatic period to further crush prices, leaving farmers between the sword and the wall. On the other hand, the closure of traditional flows of agricultural and fish products has been exponentially exacerbated by the concentration of retail trade on large areas, which, in addition to creating numerous difficulties in access by small and medium-sized farmers and in order to place artisanal fishing fish, have contributed to further crushing producer prices. While the value of the products paid to producers/ fishermen, which are particular examples of the vegetables and fish, has fallen considerably, the same has not been reflected in the final price to be paid by the consumer, which has even increased the price of some essential food goods. It is therefore legitimate that consumers have come to claim because of the high prices they have to pay to have access to various foodstuffs. Who then wins in the middle of this whole business chain if the producer receives little and the consumer pays a lot? Whoever loses, you got it. Those who win are the intermediaries between the producer and the end consumer, who get profit margins that make this whole process unfair and unacceptable — 'the margin of greed', as they called it. At the time when consumption of local and national products is encouraged, for the purposes of reducing the ecological footprint and to boost the country's productive activity, the ENP, which has long defended this practice, considers that at least the consumer has the right to be informed about the price paid in origin, to perceive the extent of the value in origin and the one that will effectively pay. The final consumer has the right to make conscious choices about what he wants to consume and under what conditions he wants to consume. The Assembly of the Republic is responsible for creating all the conditions for consumers to become responsible, ‘socioconscious’ and ‘ecoconscious’. And for this to happen, the information, the clarification, is the minimum that must be guaranteed. It is for this purpose that the Group of the Greens submits this bill, creating the obligation of large commercial areas, in addition to indicating the selling price of food and fish products, also present to the consumer the purchase price to the producer or fisherman.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u3	Mrs. Members, before giving the floor to Mr João Dias, of the CFP, we shall vote for an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members that Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u4	Very good day to all and to all. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members refers to the suspension of the term of office of Mr Bruno Coimbra ( PSD ), the electoral circle of Aveiro, being replaced by Rui Miguel Rocha da Cruz, for the period from 8 June 2020 to 14 July 2020, including in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ). Article 5 ( 2 ( b ). Article 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies. The opinion is that the suspension and replacement concerned should be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met. Therefore, Mr Miguel Rocha da Cruz, who was waiting to enter the plenary, can do so from the time of adoption of the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already stated, and we will continue to do so, that the measures announced by the Government for the agriculture sector are few and are not coming to those most precise of them, in particular, as we have always said, small and medium-sized agriculture and family farmers. The CFP today brings to the Plenary a number of initiatives aimed at responding immediately to the problems that the epidemic has brought to agriculture and to the rural world. It brings today the answers that the sector claims, a bill that creates support for costs with the electricity of the agricultural and agricultural sector. The CFP therefore proposes that the costs of production, through the sharing of the amounts paid by the electricity consumed, be it on agricultural holdings, be it also in that which is consumed in cooperatives and producer organisations in storage, storage, transport and marketing operations, have, here, necessary support as a factor of production costs. And it also brings a draft resolution that responds to one of the most affected sectors, which is the wine sector, with measures which the sector also calls for, inter alia, authorisation for distillation in crisis situations, support for private supply, simplification of payment of the PDR 2020 ( Portugal Rural Development Programme ), control of the commercial circuits of imported wines and a wine promotion campaign of national origin. All measures that the sector claims and that will make a difference. The CFP also brings to the plenary another project which enshrines the measures for the disposal of food from small and medium-sized agriculture. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how many hundreds of canteens and public meals exist in Portugal that can respond perfectly to what is the need for a fair flow at the prices of small and medium-sized agricultural production and also of small fishing? Oh, my God! The positive response to this bill presented by the CFP would be fundamental. We also present measures for the fisheries sector, particularly when the many difficulties that this sector is experiencing are at stake, especially with regard to the maintenance of its activity. It is a sector where there is a lot of concern about the survival of companies, the working conditions of fishermen and the income of fishing workers. We cannot afford, nor accept, nor agree that fishing workers are paid differently, that they are given different support than other national workers are given. These workers deserve the same respect that other workers deserve, so they have to be treated like all the other workers and we must not give them the minimum, which is the national minimum wage, but what is fair to them, in terms of what has been the support for the other workers in the national landscape. We must respond to the difficulties of the moment in fishing, because we all know how much the value of the fish, in the first sale, does not compensate for what is activity. We are also at a critical stage in response to fires. The PCP also presents a bill that aims to consider those that are the difficulties with maintaining the cleaning and preservation of the secondary ranges of this network, which is fundamental and decisive also for what is fire prevention, but we have to take into account that the COVID-19 has created conditions that make it difficult to carry out these works. That is why the CFP — we want to draw attention to this, Mr President. Members — while not exempting the obligation to clean and maintain forest land, it has created conditions for the application of counter-ordinations and penalties resulting from non-fulfilment of the expected deadlines to be reconsidered. The CFP is still on the way to defending small and medium-sized farmers, family farmers, rural farmers, for a country that wants to be more sovereign in the field of food sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u7	It is the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP defends local production, proximity, biologically, agriculture with low intensity in the use of pesticides and low intensity in the use of water. The bet in this way of producing food not only defends small producers and the environment, as it is also fundamental in a strategy to adapt to climate change, taking into account the progressive shortage of water and the desertification with which the country is going to face, in fact, with which it is already facing. This is also crucial in order to achieve greater food independence. The sustained development of local or regional food production, with guarantees of flow of production to state canteens and restaurants, will reduce production and distribution chains and reduce the impact of "kilometric food" and the country's dependence. In Portugal, 85 % of consumers are sensitive to sustainable consumption and 50 % express concern about the purchase of organic, recycled or recyclable products, precisely because they have lower environmental impacts. But this information is not accessible to the consumer when buying food. The right to information is one of the most important components of what constitutes consumer rights, enshrined in European and national law, and, when it comes to food, the right to information is particularly relevant. The food sector is those with the greatest environmental impact, either at the level of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, land use and soil erosion, or in the strong contribution to increasing biodiversity loss, representing 30 % of the total environmental impacts caused by consumption. It is therefore essential that the consumer can make his or her choices conscious of the impacts of each food when he or she acquires it. However, despite the various national and European standards which recognize the right of the consumer to information, the fact is that, with regard to the environmental impacts of a particular supply of goods or services, information is very small or non-existent. Only those who have best practices have the concern to include this information in labels or packages. In the case of energy supply, for example, there is already an indication in the CO2 bill, but it is an exception, in Portugal, to the appropriate provision of information to the consumer on environmental impacts. The European Union has already studied environmental impacts on food products, using the life cycle methodology, identifying for each product the quantity and type of fertilizers and pesticides, the consumption of water, fuel, electricity or carbon emissions. Impacts on global average warming, ozone layer, human toxicity, particulate emissions, ionizing radiation, ocean acidification, land and maritime eutrophication, drinking water toxicity, soil use, water and resources were also identified. There is a lack of basic information to the consumer, a right that is being protected. For this reason, the NAP presents this bill so that consumers will have access to the information they need and the information they have right to know, for example, when they go to the supermarket, the environmental footprint of each food, i.e. the emissions or quantity of water or soil involved in their production. Consumers have the right to know what environmental impacts they consume and should be able to exercise their right to choose food according to their environmental impact, which is largely determined by their production mode, more or less sustainable, and by the distances they travel from the field to the dish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u9	You now have the floor by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Ricardo Vicente.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution proposing concrete measures for the formulation of fair prices of food goods at the level of producers, but also at the level of consumers. For decades, national policy has promoted the opening of large areas of distribution and marketing of food goods and today we have a price that is well paid for this facility. Producers and fishermen often sell their production or fish below production costs and consumers pay too much for the products they consume on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u11	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u12	There is abuse on the productive sector with which it is necessary to end and the Bloc brings concrete measures on the subject. The European Commission has recently produced a directive which needs to be transposed into national legislation, and we propose that it be urgently transposed to combat a set of practices which are unfair in price formulation, which we all know. They put producers and fishermen to pay the prices of promotions they make in supermarkets, they put producers and fishermen to pay the first shelves at the opening of a new store and fair prices never reach either the producer or the consumer. The Block therefore proposes that supply contracts provide for production costs and ensure that the selling price of agri-food and fish products is never lower than the costs of production and fishing. We also propose that, through a public entity, with the participation of associations and organisations of producers and fishermen, the reference production costs for the various agricultural and fish products should be stipulated. We propose the establishment of minimum prices of first-sale in the lots, at fish level, above the cost of production; we propose the establishment of maximum margins of intermediation in order to ensure fair prices for the consumer; we propose that the regular supervision of supply contracts, minimum prices of first-sale and intermediate margins be ensured; and even if the storage capacity of fish at Docapesca is increased and improved, so as to safeguard the preservation of fish in periods of high supply or difficulty in disposal. Measures are needed to promote food sovereignty and to ensure justice in the formulation of prices by promoting and strengthening our productive fabric at local level and ensuring its access to local markets, so that consumption and production of proximity are a reality and a guarantee of food sovereignty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u13	Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the sectors that in this pandemic has never lowered its arms and that has also been in the front line is the agricultural sector. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u15	It is therefore important to leave a word of recognition to all producers who have played a vital role in combating this scourge. It is also to welcome the topic of debate, which translates into the importance of public policies in the sustainable development of the agricultural sector, a sector that has never even stopped in an emergency state and which continues to invest in its productions, despite the enormous difficulties, at the level of national and international markets. But we will all agree that recognition does not resolve the delay in the implementation of support for this sector, as well as the other sectors of the economy that dynamize each other, and that they continue to have serious liquidity problems that need to be solved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, we have in a debate of a few minutes nine diplomas relating to very distinct and complex areas, i.e. all « to the sauce and faith in God»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u17	... where specific and urgent support for the various productive sectors strongly penalized by this pandemic with market prices intervention and utopia on food labels is mixed. This desire to discuss everything at the same time reveals a lack of weighting and even little respect for a sector as important as the agricultural sector. [[Exactly! No doubt!]] [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u18	For the PSD, more than discussing whether prices should be set by the Ministry of Agriculture rather than increasing environmental and economic costs through information in food packaging, it is necessary to create answers to the enormous future uncertainty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u20	... strengthening crisis management instruments in markets and balance in supply chains. We need a strong, integrated and balanced common agricultural policy (CAP) within European policy, because only with strong and intelligent public policies will it be possible to create space for the stock exchange of proximity and not through audacious and aimless measures that only add bureaucracy, state and more costs to producers, to consumers and to the environment...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u22	... and that therefore they do not have the appropriate answers to the challenges currently facing this sector. Although many pass pala crisis COVID-19 without changing their eyes on the rural world, because they don't want or because they can't,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u24	... the Government has an obligation to defend a strong CAP in the Budget which comes there and enhances all the instruments available at national and Community level to manage the crisis in this fundamental pillar for Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u25	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that we have voting quorum, since they are present in Room 126 Members, not corresponding to what was right, because we had agreed that no more than 120 Members would be present. I therefore ask the parliamentary groups to resolve this problem. To continue the debate by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - let me say a word of deep gratitude to all the anonymous heroes of the primary sector who, during this pandemic, have been one of the main pillars of our survival as a people and as a country. First of all, I would like to say that the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture are doing their part, combining cross-cutting measures with sectoral measures, doing everything within their power to leave no producer, no fisherman, no row, sector or even region behind. It should therefore be stressed that some of the actions currently under way meet the present proposal in these nine parliamentary initiatives: some are already operationalized, others are being prepared, others are being negotiated with the European Union, some seem to us to be incompatible with Community rules and there are others which, in our view, are doubtful or even impossible to achieve in the current context. Therefore, we want to win seven points that seem significant to us: first, to express our total support for all measures aimed at simplifying processes, anticipating payments or creating lines of credit to provide liquidity to the sectors. Secondly, to align ourselves with the Ministry of Agriculture's innovation agenda and which includes, among other things, the incorporation of renewable energy into various agrarian activities, which will reduce production costs but also reduce environmental impacts. Third, use this context to build a new contract, a new alliance between national production and large distribution, correcting as many chronic as possible. Fourthly, speed up the revision of the CCP (Public Contract Code) so that local products, organic agriculture, small production and short chains can be better valued. Fifthly, to make every effort at the European Commission's negotiating table in order to ensure that several measures are authorised and implemented for the most affected sectors, such as crisis distillation and storage for the wine sector, but also to consider the implementation of the measure of the qualitative reserve for port wine or any other measures to ensure that production, in particular small farmers in the Demarcado do Douro region, will not be affected by their income and production levels of previous years as regards the benefit. Finally, look at the Stabilisation Programme and see that it opens up new opportunities for agriculture and the sea. The promotion of the blue economy and investment support in the agri-food sector are good examples. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of this storm we want to leave a final note: the sectors of agriculture and the sea must be able to reach good port with a minimum of damage and with the vitality sufficient for the next stages of economic and social recovery in our country. Portugal and the Portuguese need this vital contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u27	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We discussed at this point almost 10 initiatives whose only common feature is that they relate to agriculture and fisheries, to the primary sector. I would like to begin by greeting farmers and fishermen who, in this pandemic period, at a time when so many said that economic activity had stopped, continued to work, continued to ensure that essential goods had reached people, in which case food had reached people. I also want to greet those who, in the face of the difficulties — and many — of the flow of their products, because many used them mainly for the restoration and the hotel, sectors that were closed, have managed, with innovation, creativity and work, to find new ways to bring their products to Portuguese. Except for the incentive of the parties that brought this issue to debate, I believe that these diplomas would deserve another kind of discussion, because, in 3 or 4 minutes per party, we will discuss information to the consumer, fair prices—and we are talking about very different things, because what the ENP says is different from what the NAP says and what the Block says — support for the wine sector, support for small and micro-agricultural enterprises, support for artisanal fishing and green electricity. We're discussing everything and you know what else there is! This is not a rational way to discuss a sector, especially a sector that ensures our survival and our diet. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Sometimes we make very theoretical and very beautiful reflections here on what populism is, but doing these discussions in a way that is not rational and without the analysis of what we are saying and proposing it is also a great form of populism, because they want to divide Parliament into good and bad. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] There are the good ones, who are the ones who care, and there are the bad ones who are the ones who don't care. Nothing is debated in depth and the consequences of nothing are discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u29	What about CDS responses? Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u30	I would like to draw attention to this because it is a serious matter; we speak of a vital sector and this is no way to discuss such deep questions. [[BE's protests.]] And with screams it's not a way to discuss either deep questions or more superficial questions. But perhaps the reason I say is mirrored in the screams that are heard on the opposite side of the Chamber. In conclusion, since it is not possible to discuss this with your feet and your head, I would like to say that it seems to us that, although the idea of information to consumers is good, what is being proposed here is very little density. The information on the price to the producer is the only objective criterion that is here and is the only one that deserves to be weighted, because everything else implies accounts and simply no one explains how they are doing it. For example, the cost of production is a difficult account to make and is not at least mirrored in the project.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u32	As for the environmental impact, it is relevant, yes, but I wonder how it is calculated. What is said is that the government regulates within 90 days. Given that we live in a country in which, in many cases, the government is to regulate over 90 days ago, I think it would be worthwhile to think a little more about what we propose, rather than just want to mark the agenda without much to propose. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u33	With no more entries for this point, we will move to the second point of our agenda... [[Pause.]] After all, Mrs. Mariana Silva signed up to intervene. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor, although it has not been registered in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u34	Mr. President, I'm sorry because I thought I didn't have to sign up. I am happy to know that the CDS will vote in favour of the Green Bill. Mrs. Members, agriculture and fisheries are the main food supports and food goods cannot be confused with any other, because they are fundamental to survival. Food is a human right and food production occupies a strategic place in terms of sovereignty. The food sector is dominated by half a dozen large distribution companies that concentrate the distribution/marketing circuit, obtaining scandalous profit margins, suffocating producers, paying very low production prices and selling at exorbitant prices to consumers, a concentration that forced the closure of thousands of merceries and minimarkets, reducing sales points for small producers. With the epidemic of COVID-19, the large distribution chose to work its image, promoting advertising campaigns to explore the greatest sensitivity of consumers in this difficult period, passing the message of an alleged support to those who work on the land and create animals, as if a burden on farmers were being treated, while insisting on crushing the prices paid for production. However, small and medium-sized farmers, fishermen and the country cannot be held hostage by the large distribution that monopolizes and determines everything. It is impossible for small and medium-sized producers to survive with the value paid to them by large distributors and with late payment deadlines. Defending small agriculture, much of it within the family framework, enables the development of the local economy and enables us to guarantee our sovereignty and the path to sustainability. In addition to production and local consumption being the guarantee of more healthy food terms in the dish, short distribution circuits ensure a smaller ecological footprint and contribute to decarbonization, to combating food waste and to the safety of product quality. But for this it is necessary to prohibit unfair trade practices in relations between producers and large distribution chains... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u35	... and set minimum prices at the origin accompanying the evolution of production costs. This is what the Greens propose. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u36	Mrs. Members, this concludes the joint debate of Bill Nos 400 / XIV / 1. a (PEV), 344 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 374 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 382 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 412 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 422 / XIV / 1. a (PAN), in general, and of Resolution Projects Nos 459 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 477 / XIV / 1. a (PEV). We will move to the second point of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Granting of honours from the National Pantheon to Aristides of Sousa Mendes. For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the relatives of Aristides de Sousa Mendes, the Aristides Foundation of Sousa Mendes, the Jewish community of Lisbon and the population of Cabanas de Viriato. This legislative initiative aims to honor and perpetuate the memory of Aristides de Sousa Mendes as a heroic figure of Portuguese memory, as a national heritage, as an ethical legacy and an inheritance of civil society, a virtuous example for generations coming to defend the humanist values of dignity of the human person and the cause of freedom, kindness, empathy and courage. Aristides of Sousa Mendes prioritized ethical awareness of the dictates of a fascist state. in a gesture of dissident, saved thousands of lives from the persecution and culture of violence of the Nazi regime. He therefore paid a very high price, having died in poverty, an injustice only partially rectified by the democratic state. What legitimizes the great gestures is their contemporaryity, because it is today that history is called. in this sense, at a time like what we live today, of crisis, refugees and attacks on democratic values, it is important to rescue ethical references. The humanist and humanitarian gesture of Aristides of Sousa Mendes advises us to look at each one of us, our States, our ideologies, our policies and not forget that, sometimes, disobedience is an act of absolute democracy and empathy for the other. Aristides de Sousa Mendes is today an ethical reference that still lacks institutional recognition and honours of the National Pantheon. To grant these honours to Aristides de Sousa Mendes is to officially recognize its ethical heritage, I repeat, and its heritage of civilization. at the same time, it is necessary for the Portuguese State to recognize today Aristides de Sousa Mendes what the fascist State did not recognize. The democratic state must have a different attitude from that of the fascist State, an authoritarian State. in this sense, it encourages all parties and all Members to get up and help us to formalize and recognize this heritage of democracy, resistance and humanism. [[P.S., PS.D. and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u38	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: History is not a mass movement, as some want to convince us, it is made of individual choices and actions. Millions of individual choices change history course. Sometimes these choices converge on something collective, sometimes the choice remains lonely, embraced only by the person who made it. These brave lonely ones, who end up shaping history, deserve to be recognized and remembered by those who happen to them in time. This is clearly the case of Aristides of Sousa Mendes. No one can tell the truth what motivated Sousa Mendes to courage, humanity, altruism, in a word, to the heroism of the inspiring acts he practiced as consul in Bordeaux, at the beginning of World War II, but we can all agree that they are figures such as that of Aristides of Sousa Mendes that magnify the name of Portugal and the meaning of being Portuguese. We honor your determination to fight for freedom; we honor your courage and the lives of thousands of Jews who helped save; we honor your humanity not to see in those who helped ethnic, status or religion; we honor your determination to act against the will not only of one but of two dictators of height. Aristides of Sousa Mendes sacrificed his career and risked his life so that so many persecuted and crippled people could have a future. To never try to erase his name from the History of Portugal, to serve as an example of courage for all, we will support the award of honours of the National Pantheon to Aristides of Sousa Mendes. [[P.S., PSD and MP's applauded Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u40	Mr Fernando Ruas has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is of course gratifying that in two distinct moments, in this short period of time that I have been a Member, I am witnessing the memory of Aristides de Sousa Mendes. The first moment, in the Assembly of the Republic, was an exhibition at the time of the Holocaust, which we could see precisely in the corridors surrounding the Hemicycle ; the second moment, now, by the draft resolution that Mr Joacine brings, of course, we take advantage to congratulate her. Mrs. Deputy, in the explanatory statement she presented and in the list of tributes to Consul Aristides de Sousa Mendes, allow me to suggest to her a tribute made by the Municipal Chamber of the district of origin of Consul Aristides de Sousa Mendes, from which I also come. It was a very simple tribute, in the historical center of the city, made at the requalification of the building, symbolically located in the old juicy in Viseu. At the time, we made an extremely important exhibition with curator Dr. Francisco Paulino. Following this, after presenting a book by journalist Luís Pires, at the time of the RTP in New York, we decided to give Aristides de Sousa Mendes the name of an important road artery, and this led to the kindly granting of the title of honorary citizen to me by the Raoul Wallenberg Foundation — this Swedish architect, also one of the heroes of the Holocaust. But I would like to take this opportunity to make some references. The first, of course, is to the local autonomous power, both that of the past, for having known to gather forces so that the house where Aristides of Sousa Mendes was born was integrated into the project of the Rota das Cathedrals, but also to the current local power, both to the Board of Freguesia, or to the Municipal Chamber of Carregal do Sal, because they took on their responsibilities in order to ensure that this house is properly re-qualified and also musealized. Finally, I wanted to make a reference to the Aristide Foundation of Sousa Mendes and another, of course most important, to the family, which I take advantage of to greet and to tell you that, for us, it is crucial that your position be decisive. If so, i.e. if the position of the family is taken into account, of course the PSD will support and monitor this draft resolution. [[Greetings from PSD and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u42	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 35 years ago, in the first great national tribute to Aristides de Sousa Mendes, one of the many people saved thanks to the sights of themselves has marked a presence in Lisbon to honor the memory of the consul who disobeyed in the name of his conscience, his sense of humanity and justice. Henri Zvi Deutsch, a 9-year-old in 1940, fleeing the barbarity of the Nazi armies that entered his native Belgium and who would take him to Bordeaux first and at the border, Baiona, evoked a man who had never met, whose family had never seen and who would hear only speak decades later after leaving France. Thanks to this man, Zvi Deutsch, his father, Bernard, his mother, Hélène, and his brothers, Simon and Josete, escaped to the fate of all their other relatives who lost their lives in Shoah. Thanks to the courage of Aristides of Sousa Mendes, he survived ; thanks to the determination of Aristides of Sousa Mendes, he left children and grandchildren ; thanks to the example of Aristides of Sousa Mendes, he dedicated his life to teaching in Israel and the United States, where he lived. Like Zvi Deutsch, many thousands crossed the border, crossed Spain and entered Portugal. Most went to other destinations, but some stayed. They survived, grew, multiplied and, by surviving, challenged the fate that would be traced to them by the anti-Semitism and Nazism that occupied Europe. For Sousa Mendes, the price of disobedience to the regime and Salazar meant the end of his career, social ostracism and an end of life filled with difficulties. I would not see the justice that was due to him, which I would only get with rehabilitation in the 1980s, and with the national tributes which, since then, have been lent to him. However, those who survived thanks to Aristides of Sousa Mendes never forgot it. Soon in the 1960s, it would be recognized by the Yad Vashem Memorial in Jerusalem as "Just among the Nations" and the medal that marks this recognition cites the passage of the Mishnah that proclaims that "he who saves a life saves the whole world." It is precisely the thousands of worlds that Sousa Mendes has saved, the thousands of Henri Zvi Deutsch and his families, who today will listen to us when we decide to grant honor to the Pantheon. On the « Justos», Elie Wiesel stressed that it is important to learn from them, gratefully and with hope, remember them. Consecrating its memory in the space where the homeland honours and perpetuates the Portuguese citizens who have died out in defending the values of defense of civilization, in favor of the dignity of the human person and the cause of freedom, is the logical corollary that the Republic must withdraw from these wise words. In the words of Henri Zvi Deutsch, who returned, Sousa Mendes was « a lonely light that fell on a Europe in the dark ». at a time when, again, in Europe and in the world, we witness the exacerbation of extremism, the escalation of anti-Semitism, the closure of borders, solidarity and humanity to whom we seek to survive conflicts and persecution, the message of Aristides of Sousa Mendes must be summoned throughout its present and authoritativeness, to show us the ways to go and to illuminate, again, the way. However, it is important to bear in mind that the defence of these values and the preservation of memory will not only be done with fair evocations and beautiful words and ceremonies. They are built up with permanent commitment to memory and citizenship education. They are built by fighting without hindrance to anti-Semitism and religious and ethnic discrimination, denouncing those who reject, sometimes from this same forum, the humanist values common to the classics of antiquity, the Jewish-Christian thought, the tradition of the Lights and the emancipative ideas of various ideological quadrants that have been liberated mankind over the past two and a half centuries. [[Greetings from the PS and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] They are built with concrete acts of correction of injustices, which do not lapse, they are years, decades or centuries old, before those who have been humiliated and raped, deprived of their property, their identity, their belonging to a community or their nationality, not giving in to punctual difficulties and never losing sight of the essential. We must always be, like Sousa Mendes, with arms open to our fellows who, along with us, want to survive, live, thrive and build their lives. Above all, they are built by preserving the fragile solitary flame that Aristides of Sousa Mendes lit up in Bordeaux,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u44	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u45	...in the name of decency and humanity, 80 years ago, and that should be mirrored every day in our democracy, our Republic and our lives. [[P.S.P., MP Joacine Katar Moreira and BE Member José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u46	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mr Antonio Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the CFP Parliamentary Group is associated with this tribute which is proposed here to Aristides de Sousa Mendes, also greeting their families who are present here, to attend this debate. And we say so, that we consider that the honours of the National Pantheon should not be trivialized. This is indeed a national tribute with profound meaning, which only enhances the debate we are having here today and, of course, the memory that is due to the attitude of Aristides of Sousa Mendes that we are here to exalt. Indeed, as has already been said, Aristides de Sousa Mendes, in obeying the orders he received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who protected his activity as a consul of Portugal in Bordeaux, committed an act of the deepest humanity. He saved thousands of people whose lives were obviously threatened by the Nazi holocaust, disobeyed the orders of the Fascist government of Salazar, saving these lives, and had, with this, the greatest personal and professional costs, because he saw his career as a ruined diplomat and ended his days with great difficulties, as it has already been highlighted here. This should, in fact, be exalted, not only by the noble nature of its character, by the enormous courage of its attitude of conscience, which cost it the career, but also because it allows us to have a clearer idea of the false neutrality of salazarist fascism in the face of the conjuncture of Europe of the 1930s, before Nazism. Obviously, Salazar was not neutral, Salazar was an ally of Nazi Germany and the way he punished Aristides of Sousa Mendes, by his attitude of disobedience, is clearly revealing this position. And this also enhances the tribute that Portuguese democracy lends to Aristides de Sousa Mendes. We believe, in fact, that Mr Fernando Ruas said that, in this respect, family members should have a decisive role and therefore we agree exactly with what he has just said. We understand that this Assembly of the Republic should in fact accede to the proposal which is under consideration and initiate its endeavours to ensure that the honours proposed for Aristides de Sousa Mendes, and that they actually honor us all and to Portuguese democracy, are fulfilled. [[PCP, MP Joacine Katar Moreira, PS and BE Member José Manuel Pureza applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u48	Mr Beatriz Gomes Dias, for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the family of Aristides de Sousa Mendes and by greeting the Member who does not register Joacine Katar Moreira, by bringing us this proposal, which is very important in the context that we are living, where discrimination, injustice, stereotypes and prejudices grow. It is very important that we know and remember how others stood up against injustice, against indignity, and sought to promote and build more just, more democratic societies, where all people could take place, where all people could feel protected. It is in this sense that the project we are analyzing today is extremely important. Our collective memory results from selections that we make, from aspects that are decided, from social and political constructions. Therefore, we must always think about removing the teachings of history and looking for the characters that can inspire us, which can bring us information for the construction of a more just society. And Aristides de Sousa Mendes, of course, unequivocally, is one of these people who helps us understand the need for insubmission, the need to rise against injustice and the need to defend humanitarian values, the deepest values that protect the lives of all people, especially those who are persecuted, attacked, inhumanized. To rise against dehumanization, to rise against violence was a fundamental characteristic of the life of Aristides of Sousa Mendes, which we celebrate here today. Therefore, the Left Block accompanies this draft resolution, the decision to enter into history the deepening of the memory of Aristides of Sousa Mendes and to bring this legacy of citizenship to schools, to young students, so that they know that in the past there were others who stood up, others who did not shut up, and there must be today, in the present, others and others who rise and do not shut up, who say 'no' to injustice and who defend the lives of all people, because everyone deserves the right to life. That is what Aristides of Sousa Mendes said and therefore we greet him, supporting the proposal of the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira. [[Congratulations from BE, Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would also like to associate myself with the greetings to the families, friends and admirers of Aristides de Sousa Mendes present in the gallery. Now you have the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, we greet the families of Aristides de Sousa Mendes present in the galleries. We're always too small when we talk about Aristides and will always be few times we talk about him. Of course, we will all agree that Aristides more than the National Pantheon deserves, but it will always be lacking to discuss whether the Pantheon deserves Aristides. It seems extremely far away, but, after all, it's still so close, it's only happened 80 years ago. Following the advance of Nazi Germany troops in Europe, refugees are emerging in Bordeaux. They fled the war, fled Nazi oppression, anti-Semitism, or torture, exploitation and death in the concentration camps. To these people, enough-CL would-have them a visa. With this hope, they knocked at the door of various diplomatic divisions. Salazar had issued the famous Circular No. 14. Aristides of Sousa Mendes, consul of Portugal, Catholic, monarchic, lived in a profound ethical dilemma: either met Salazar or disobeyed, to save. He chose disobedience to authority in the name of higher ethical values. And we quote: “I have to save all these people, as many as I can. If I have to disobey orders, I prefer to be with God against men rather than men against God." He granted sights to everyone who wanted it. He didn't rest and passed tens of thousands of visas. When he learned that, under pressure from the Portuguese authorities, the authorities of France were rejecting visas, he did not hesitate to courageously follow the refugees at the border. Aristide's humanitarian gesture saved without distinction, but it was worth a disciplinary process on the part of the dictatorship, the expulsion of the diplomatic body, the ban on the exercise of counsel and the absence of any kind of maturity. Democracy did not behave well either, with missing processes and vain excuses not to honor Aristides. Medeiros Ferreira, Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs after 25 April, repeatedly requested the Aristide process to rehabilitate it but its services « never found it ». Only in 1987, by the voice of Mário Soares, Portugal apologized publicly for the injustices it had towards Aristides and this House was able to approve, in a posthumous way, its reintegration into the diplomatic career. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But Portugal has never properly apologized. We must honor the memory of Aristides de Sousa Mendes on the pages of the History of Portugal and open the House Museum, in Cabanas de Viriato, in this 80. the anniversary of his heroic gesture. The NAP, including, has already questioned the Government in January this year about the date of the opening, but has not yet received any answer. It is important that, in this process, we hear the will of the family and the population of Cabanas de Viriato. Above all, Aristide inspires us and, today, lives a piece of Aristides in each person who, disobeying orders, saves migrants and refugees in the Balkans, in the Mediterranean or in any other border, in every person who wants to break down the existing walls, in every person who fights against oppression and discrimination. It inspires us to fight the extreme right forces that proliferate throughout Europe and the world. Nothing in Aristide's journey made him guess the hero he became. But that's exactly what defines the essence of a hero: being capable of exceptional gestures at exceptional times. More than honor Aristides, we need to honor the values by which he acted. Today, more than ever, when nationalist movements hit Europe again, with the same arguments and gestures that caused the catastrophe nine decades ago, we need to remember Aristides and his gesture. Let us be worthy of your memory. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u52	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss here the award of National Pantheon honors to Aristides of Sousa Mendes, I would like to focus the discussion on exactly what our decision is. What we are doing is deciding whether or not this Parliament should give these honours. And I would start by remembering that, strictly speaking, this claim is not new. I remember that, as early as 2015, a petition, whose validation of a file with 6000 and many signatures was not made, had exactly the same claim; however, at that time, it did not reach the Plenary. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to recall that if this claim did not come here, if the discussion was not earlier it was because, to some extent, it was understood that there should be a refusal of any trivialization of the honors of Pantheon, that they should be as restricted as possible, as intended for exceptionality as possible. And this is the question that is put here: is Aristides of Sousa Mendes exceptional or not? Obviously, the answer is the following: in a country that, during the Second World War, lived, regardless of historical readings, a more or less collaborative neutrality, where there were several "righteous" people — the concept mentioned here, that is, those who saved the lives of the Holocaust perpetrated by the Nazis — none had the emphasis, projection and relevance that Aristides de Sousa Mendes had, who acted individually against expressed instructions, said here, and for one reason only that, for a good and righteous man, excels everything and that is his conscience. Neither power, nor office, nor function, has nothing surpassed what, to him, was more important: his conscience. It is also noteworthy, as has been said here, that Aristides de Sousa Mendes was, already in democracy, the target of rehabilitation, so to speak. Nothing has been recognized before the action of the Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs of democracy. in the same way, for example — I would like to remind you today — the Portuguese Sephardic Jews saw, after a crime of 500 years ago, their nationality recognized and attributed. It was also good that this should be taken into account and not touched by Parliament now. It was this same spirit of rehabilitation and recognition that led Aristides de Sousa Mendes to be just and dignified. Mr President, I conclude by saying that this justice takes place precisely in the 75 years on the release of the Auschwitz concentration camp, which is not irrelevant, nor at all indifferent to the decision we are taking today. Final answer to the question: « pantheon » and « national ». What's a pantheon? This is where we deposit the remains of heroes. Aristides of Sousa Mendes was a hero and that is why he deserves honor from Pantheon. Aristides de Sousa Mendes, from a national point of view, represents, contrary to what some may say, the best of the Portuguese spirit — the spirit of solidarity, the spirit of dignity and the spirit of humanism. That is why the CDS obviously supports Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira's initiative and will vote in favour of this fair national tribute to Aristide de Sousa Mendes. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP, PSD Member Paulo Moniz, BE Member José Manuel Pureza and Member of Parliament not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u54	To close the debate, you have the floor to the proposer, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The philosopher Walter Benjamim, in his theses about the concept of « History », advises us to take advantage of the memories that come back at times of danger, even because the dead are not safe if the enemy wins. The act of salvation and disobedience to Circular No. 14 of the Fascist State makes this month and this year 80 years. But it is important to remember that justice does not age, as does humanity itself. The award of National Pantheon honours to Aristides de Sousa Mendes is an act of historical justice and I would like to congratulate the Assembly of the Republic on this institutional recognition and to remind you that "doing good, without looking at who" is one of the most important sayings taught to us. This is a historic day. Thank you very much. [[Congrats from PS, PSD and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u56	We will move on to the third point of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 432 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government apply the reduced VAT rate to nutrients or nutrients ( vitamins and minerals) that strengthen the human immune system. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr António Maló de Abreu, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD submitted, a month ago, a draft resolution recommending to the Government the application of the reduced rate of VAT (value added tax) to substances that strengthen the immune system, which is the same as saying that they strengthen defenses and resistances to a pathogenic factor. This is not a random proposal, nor does it arise at any time. This proposal aims to facilitate people's access to nutrients, such as vitamins and minerals that contribute to the strengthening of the immune system, and only those. But this proposal also arises in a special context, in which a pandemic has already affected everyone, has infected 7 million people and caused 400 000 deaths for now. In times of crisis, the first victim is the truth and the naked and raw truth is this: the COVID-19 has demanded a brutal effort of society and an exemplary dedication of health professionals, whose state of alertness and mobilization is so necessary until an effective treatment and vaccine are available. I point out that, after a flood of information, there are still those who have not been able to explain and make sense that confinement has been made to avoid the dreaded rupture of health services and not to win the battle against the virus. For all this, the PSD has already proposed, by the voice of its President Rui Rio, the application of the reduced VAT rate to individual protective masks and disinfectant gel, so as to make them much more accessible to the general population. And the government did well to agree with the PSD! Now, we add what we propose to the Government of the Socialist Party, because it is repeatedly emerging credible scientific papers, articles and contributions, suggesting that food supplements containing vitamins C and D, as well as other micronutrients, contribute to our immune system strengthening and facing, robust, coronavirus. We accept that the specific identification of these substances constitutes a responsibility of the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ). to men of science and technicians what belongs to them and to politics what is politics here again to be a good principle. The Government will now have a good opportunity to include this recommendation from the PSD in the proposed law which it will submit today to the Assembly of the Republic to amend the State Budget Act. Our society will reap the fruits of what it sows today tomorrow. This is how the great deeds of heroes are made, and so it will be for the very small steps that the humble know how to take. Everything in life has its time, but I remember that, no matter how much the tree is, she one day was seed. It'll never be us! It's half the victims and half the accomplices. Until our just ideas have maturity, early in the morning every day will always be a start. For us, priority is still the health of our fellow citizens, but with our eyes full of hope in the future, because for us, for the PSD, people are first! [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u58	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone knows the position of the Liberal Initiative on the harmful effects that the excessive tax burden has on the lives of people, families and businesses. That's no surprise. But in the case of this draft resolution which the PSD today brings to debate, and in the specific context of the COVID-19 pandemic, it can be said that the harmful effects of taxes also extend to public health throughout the country and the whole community. Regardless of the probability that we want to attribute to the appearance of other pandemic vacancies, it is undeniable that a more immunely resistant population will result in benefits for all. Therefore, we will vote in favour of this draft resolution, in addition to meeting the guidelines already issued by the Directorate-General for Health, where it can be read that the « supplementation of vitamins and minerals are an integral part of the patient's nutritional support with COVID-19 ». On the basis of the principle that these guidelines will not be reversed later, as other guidelines have already been, such as the use of masks or visits to homes and so many others, it seems to us that this time the DGS is right and we would go even further. We should be responsible for the task of identifying not only these supplements, but all the substances, foods or activities that can strengthen the immune system and give them equally favourable tax treatment. This would be another example of how simplification and lowering taxes can do good for health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u60	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution presented here under discussion by the PSD recommends to the Government the application of the reduced VAT rate to nutrients or nutrients such as vitamins and minerals, which strengthen the human immune system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the Government was preparing its post-pandamy programme, with measures aimed at covering the needs of Portuguese, either economically, defending our companies, either at health or social level, creating strong measures to support the people who need the most, the PSD, the largest party in the opposition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u62	Still!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u63	... has supported projects to increase tax expenditure, or reduce tax revenue, as they want to call it, with dubious and unproven benefits. Therefore, Mr Maló de Abreu, there must be very good sense and sense of responsibility in the proposals that we all bring here. Notwithstanding the VAT directive, Member States may apply reduced rates to ‘products normally intended to serve as a supplement or substitute for food’, these nutrients concerned, vitamins and minerals provided for in the draft resolution submitted by VV. Ex. in an avulsive and unorganized way, they can be obtained through the consumption of foods rich in these nutrients and which are already subject to a reduced rate of VAT. Underlining : they are already subject to a reduced rate of VAT. I am leaving some examples that are in your draft resolution. Vitamin C— we can go get it to citrus fruits. Vitamin D — we can consume liver, fish, butter, egg yolk and, of course, catch sun, which is fundamental to transform provitamin D into vitamin D. And zinc? We can get this micronutrient in beef, fish, birds, milk and derivatives. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be helping our producers, of whom today very well spoke, at the first item on the agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u65	... defending agriculture and fishermen. Let's get these nutrients for natural products. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I am sure these will be healthier for public health! The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore believes that these supplements should not have a fiscal treatment equal to or identical to the main sources of these vitamins and minerals. Extending the reduced VAT rate to these supplements could convey a wrong message, i.e. that they are equivalent and that they are substitute for food coming from our agricultural producers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u66	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u67	The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, for the reasons I have just presented, will not follow your claim. Yes, yours, because I'm sure it's just you and the Portuguese don't follow it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u68	The next intervention was Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ideological differences arise up to the most unexpected moments and, after hearing the speech of Mrs Joana Lima, I believe that the discussion of this bill will be one of these moments. This draft law, better saying, this draft resolution, because it is not even draft law, is a recommendation to the government, see there, says something very simple, i.e. that the Directorate-General of Health recently came to say — it is true that the Directorate-General of Health has not been quite consistent in its opinions—, and I quote, «... as regards ‘Sustainment of vitamins and minerals’, that‘ Vitamins and mineral salts are an integral part of the patient's nutritional support with CVID-19 and as such its administration should be provided by enteric or parenteral means. It should also be considered that the nutritional approach with regard to the prevention of viral infections should include the adequacy of certain vitamins, including vitamin A, complex B, C, D and E and micronutrients such as zinc and selenium." Starting from here, the PSD says something that seems to me to be elementary good sense, which is « if so, these vitamins and these supplements should be taxed at the minimum rate of VAT ». It should be noted that the VAT exemption is not being proposed, only the reduced rate is being proposed! I think this is more or less obvious and would go further than the PSD. To stop having these discussions, which are becoming recurrent, about all and more products, on a case-by-case basis, without looking at the list as a whole, it seems to me that the government should, and should have done so some time ago, have set up a working group to look at the whole list. It is because when we ask whether or not it makes sense to apply the minimum rate to a given product, it is appropriate to understand which other products have a minimum rate, which are the ones having an intermediate rate and which are the ones having a normal rate. Every time we do this, case by case, these lists will lose congruence and that is the only repair I have to make to the PSD project. Now it is said that DGS says this in relation to COVID-19 and the PS responds « drink orange juice, because orange already has a reduced rate», frankly, I think that is already in the field of humor! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u70	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD today brings the debate to a draft resolution that seeks to apply the reduced rate of VAT on vitamin and mineral supplements that are scientifically proven as contributing to the strengthening of the immune system. We must, of course, see what is to be done with the determination of intermediate and reduced VAT rates. There are two very clear situations: or this is an essential asset, in which conditions must be created so that the whole population can access it or, then, it is a good whose consumption must be encouraged. Therefore, it is also important to highlight two evaluations that have to do with the difference between supplements and medicines. In the case of medicinal products, they are widely studied and tested, their efficacy is perceived and identified, their safety, their dosages are determined, their effect and their side effects are established. In the case of supplements, none of this happens. They are not studied, nor even tested their safety, nor their effectiveness and are often even erroneously treated as food. And that's a problem, because supplements, not being food, are not harmless! They lead to health disadvantages, particularly because of their toxicity and, yes, drug interactions. This has already been referred to as DGS regulations, but it is good that it should be read in full because it concerns the treatment of the patient with COVID-19, critical and non-critical. Let him know that any patient in intensive care has nutritional therapy at the end of 48 hours. It's for the whole patient! Any patient has to have nutritional therapy—therapy! — contrary to what the PSD is asking today. With regard to therapy, the same regulation states: "There is no evidence to date regarding specific nutritional therapy for critical and non-critical patients with COVID-19". Now, Mr Maló de Abreu went to see only one part, some excerpt he was interested in, and he did not read all the regulations. More: the European Food Safety Authority alerts the fact, and this is very important, Mr Member, of the supplements containing minerals and bioaccumulable vitamins, i.e. that the organism is accumulating, as is the case with vitamin E and, see, selenium, which is referred to in the explanatory statement of the draft resolution, a risk of toxicity to the liver, the skin and the nervous system. In conclusion, what do we have to say? Taking into account what the PSD says, what it proposes in the draft resolution and what we have identified and discussed here, we conclude that there is no scientific evidence that supports vitamin and mineral supplements as a therapeutic measure and much less as a preventive therapeutic measure, as the PSD is trying to suggest, and much less that they act on the immune system. Therefore, a consumption whose benefits are not proven, unaware of its effectiveness and safety, should not be addressed to the population in general. We have to be careful about the consequences!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u72	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u73	I shall conclude, Mr President. The PCP understands that a healthy diet should be promoted, because different foods contribute to different nutrients for health. For PCP, feeding is an essential good for everyone. It is therefore essential that all workers and pensioners have access, yes, to the remuneration conditions of income and pensions that allow them to buy the food they need. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u74	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would begin by saying that there has been controversy about the benefit associated with some food supplementation, such as vitamins and minerals, in the strengthening of health, but also that, if there is still little evidence about the ability of some of these substances to be effective in the prevention of the disease, there is another evidence that they have a significant impact on health protection or, better, in the fight against the disease. The truth is that the marked pace of work, associated with high stress levels, combined with the lack of necessary rest periods, has been clearly identified as factors of strong attack on our immune system. We also know that inadequate food, the use of pesticides in agriculture and the absence of healthy lifestyle habits, such as physical exercise and solar exposure, contribute to the worsening of the body's response capacity to pathogenic attacks. Excessive medicalization and prescription of drugs, such as antibiotics, also have clear consequences for our immune system. The best remedy is even prevention and, therefore, the NAP has warned about the importance of health prevention, the creation of physical activity-promoting structures — whether cyclical axes, or other forms of active mobility — and of healthier lifestyles that, in essence, are life-quality promoters. However, we know that for health reasons, for social reasons or for ethical reasons, many people need to use food supplementation such as vitamin B12, vitamin D, calcium, iron or even probiotics as a way to respond to the specific needs of their organism. in this sense, it seems fundamental to us a study and a more in-depth discussion about the different supplements, ensuring that all people who lack nutrients for their development and state of health or that, even for reasons of ethical order, need supplementation can access these products in a more accessible way. It seems to us that, proven by the benefits, proof that the person needs, by health condition, by ethical decision or for some reason, to carry out this supplementation, this measure can make sense. However, at this stage of the debate, we feel we are quick to act without this analysis, without this deepening, and therefore the NAP abster-CL will be on this initiative. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u76	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the draft resolution of the PSD currently under discussion is profoundly ineffective. We did not begin by evaluating the content of it, but by assessing its effectiveness. If it is to change the VAT of certain products, why not a bill? Why should you be recommending that the government do so instead? After that, the PSD project does not seem to be aware of the scope of its own proposal. He cannot say how many products would be covered by this reduction, he cannot, in fact, show such scientific evidence, so he sends to seconds or third parties to do so and, to the limit, there can even be no scope in this proposal. More: if the intention of the Social Democratic Party is to reduce VAT so as to reduce the final price for the consumer — I think that would be the intention that would be in the honourable Member's narrative — then why not also intervene in the other 77% of the price of the product? These food supplements are often expensive, but they are also expensive for the price of the product itself. Why not propose, for example, the fixing of prices for products which you consider to be so wonderful for the immune system, instead of only intervening in VAT, in fact risking even increasing the profit margin that will then be practised? There is also another doubt: both in the proposal and in the speech of the honourable Member, there was, at certain times, an attempt to almost match these food supplements, for their therapeutic benefits, with medicines. But for this, it was still necessary to propose something else: rather than being the Food and Veterinary Directorate-General to regulate and regulate the introduction and marketing of these food supplements, perhaps it should be Infarmed, because if they are compared, from a therapeutic point of view, with medicines for certain purposes, then they also have to be compared for other purposes, above all, effects and procedures that have a direct impact on individual health and public health. Therefore, it seems to us that the proposal is confusing and risks being, in many respects, ineffective because, once again, it has not been clarified what its scope is and why they do not present a bill. What is the effectiveness, after all, of this project? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u78	There are no further entries to close the debate, Mr Maló de Abreu has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to thank both those who agree with us and those who disagree with us, of course, but let me focus here on two or three aspects which I consider important. First of all, on the question of the Directorate-General for Health, what we say is that it will be a technical authority to evaluate the products that can effectively be part of this lot for the application of the reduced VAT rate. We have spoken here in the Directorate-General for Health, but of course the Government would decide which authorities would be on this issue, especially as it is a draft resolution - this is a recommendation to the Government and not something else. I want to tell those who disagree and even those who abstain because there are times when, by refraining from us, we are almost voting against — that by doing so they are adding another error to the catalogue of errors that have been presented, especially the Socialist Party, and that we will be here, as I told you from the rostrum, to continue to defend the application of the reduced VAT rate to the supplements I have told you about, whose contribution to strengthening the immune system is scientifically proven. I have listened very carefully to Mrs Joana Lima, but I must tell you, with all sincerity, that much less conversation has reached Vasco da Gama in India. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u80	This concludes the third item of the agenda. We move on to the fourth point, which is from the assessment of Decree-Law No 23 / 2020 of 22 May, which lays down the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health[ Parliamentary assessments No 14 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 16 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 19 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). I inform you that, however, the Bureau has reached the proposed amendments tabled by the CFP, the PSD and the Liberal Initiative to the decree-law as well as draft resolution No 509 / XIV / 1. a (BE), on the cessation of the validity of that decree. You have the floor to present the parliamentary opinion of BE, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After a previous legislation we repealed a Health Bases Act — the PSD and the CDS — which was a true fact made in accordance with the interests of those who want to make health a business,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... the Government of the Socialist Party is now insisting on public-private health partnerships. After, in full pandemic, the National Service of Service (SNS) has demonstrated to be the guarantor of the protection of the health of the population, while the private sector or closed doors or secretly said that it wanted to do business with the COVID-19, comes the Government of the Socialist Party insist on the possibility of delivering the management of our SNS to the economic groups that failed the Country. After being more than clear that the right option for the country is to strengthen the budget and investment in the SNS, the Socialist Party Government decided to channel 860 million to a new PPP (public-private partnership) in Cascais and also published a decree-law that allows even more public-private partnerships. This decree-law of the Government goes even further: in addition to allowing more PPPs, it also allows economic groups to use the facilities of the National Health Service to exercise their private medicine there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u82	And the opposite too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u83	These are decisions taken at the expense of the new Health Bases Act, we have no doubt about it. It is because the Basics Act states that the Government had to pass legislation defining the terms of public management of SNS establishments, but the Government, after all, has published legislation which defines the terms in which private management may exist in the SNS. Go to the trouble of what's in the Health Bases Act. These are decisions that insist on a recipe that has always had a result: draining the SNS budget to the accounts of Group Mello, the Health Light and others such. They are therefore decisions that must be repealed. This is what the Left Block proposes today: that the law decree of new PPPs of health ceases, immediately, its validity, which is sent to where the law of bases of PSD and CDS has been sent, to waste, because it does not serve users, does not serve the country, does not serve the SNS. In the legislation in Portugal, there can be no room for privatization of our public health service; in SNS there can be no room for those who think that health is a business comparable to the arms business, as is the case with Dr. Isabel Vaz. In the country, there can be no practice such as miscarriage of screenings and clinical tokens—as happened in the PPP of Cascais—the denial of care delivery or sending of users who were considered expensive to other hospitals—as happened in the PPP of Braga—or payment to health professionals far below and far below the SNS table—as happened in the PPP of Braga. We do not accept the possibility of PPP in health for this: a public SNS treats and cares, a private SNS treats until the ceiling is exhausted; a public SNS is built to think about the user, a private SNS is made to think about the profit of shareholders. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u84	You now have the floor to present the parliamentary assessment of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in an abusive interpretation, and contrary to the principle of public management contained in the Health Bases Act, the Government, instead of legislating and complying with this Law, opts for the maintenance of the public-private partnership regime, for the promiscuity between the public and the private and for the continuation of the privatization of the health sector. The Health Bases Act, approved at the end of the previous legislation, reaffirms the public, universal and general character of the SNS, favours the public service of health care and the management of public health equipment, while the private and social sectors have an additional role, where public-private partnerships and private management of health equipment of the SNS do not take place. The diploma approved by the government, and which we are discussing today, not only provides for the renewal of current PPPs, as it allows the creation of new public-private partnerships in health. The government insists on an option that does not defend the public interest and that reality has already proved harmful to users and does not guarantee the rights of workers in health. The objective of the economic groups in the management of PPPs in health is not health promotion, it is the disease business and the maximization of profits. In the past, we have all seen what public-private partnerships and the profound negative implications on the health of users: denying health care; sending users from their area of coverage to other hospitals, not to have to bear the high costs that are associated; changing the health situation to charge for care that has not been provided; or changing the priorities in the screening in the emergency service, to prevent them from being financially penalized by the high waiting times. These are options that are indeed harmful to users and with which we have always disagreed. Now completing contracts with PPP management entities in the field of health, what was required was not to waste this opportunity and to reverse PPPs to public management of health equipment. Since the government has failed to comply with what was wrong with it and which was included in the Health Bases Act, i.e. — and I am referring to it again — legislation on the terms of the public management of health institutions, the CFP brings to debate a set of amendments. We propose to do what the government has not done: to put an end to PPPs, in accordance with the principle of public management contained in the Health Bases Act, and to establish the principles and objectives of what the public management of SNS health establishments should be like. We do not follow the current decree-law that allows public-private partnerships, but we do not follow the previous diploma. The solution for the management of health establishments cannot only go through the option of revocation of the current diploma, to keep the previous in force, the responsibility of a PSD/CDS government, and that in some respects it is still more negative for the public interest. Both diplomas must be revoked and it is not enough to revoke one to keep the other in force. What solves the fundamental problem is, in fact, the proposals that the CFP brings to debate today: putting an end to the regime of public-private partnerships, as we always defend, the principle by which we stand in the discussion of the Health Bases Act, and ensuring the principles, objectives and model of the functioning of the public management of health institutions. That is our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u86	Mr Alvaro Almeida also spoke in order to present the parliamentary assessment of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group has raised the parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 23 / 2020 for reasons contrary to those which have just been submitted by the Left Block and the CFP. The ideological obstinacy of the Block and the PCP compels them to defend that the management of the SNS units must be exclusively public, at any cost. And so they shouted, before the elections, that public-private partnerships in health would not pass. The Socialist Party has now responded, after the elections, that PPPs have already passed. It is therefore necessary to recognize the capacity that PS had to make the left to pass a Health Bases Act that would, for them, end the PPPs and now come to legislate the continuation of the same PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u88	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u89	It should be noted, however, that the government's decision to maintain PPPs is not only positive, as it is natural to consider the advantages associated with such a model, and it may only surprise those who were very distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u90	It's profit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u91	For example, the national reform plan that the Government drew up in 2019 already mentioned that PPPs in health, and I quote, « have ensured the benefit to the State in terms of economy, efficiency and efficiency while ensuring the quality of service provided to the populations ». In other words, the Government recognized what all the serious studies carried out in Portugal show: that health PPPs were good for Portuguese people and that it would therefore be a mistake to make the possibility of adopting innovative management models that contributed to improving quality of life impossible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u93	But if this diploma is positive, because it allows the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health, the supplementary and temporary logic adopted in Decree-Law No 23/ 2020 is excessively limited. The PSD does not believe that PPPs are the solution to all SNS problems; on the contrary, the PSD considers that the management of SNS health units should be primarily public. But more important than whether management is public or not, it is to ensure that SNS units adopt the best and most qualified management practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u95	If, through partnerships with private entities or the social sector, you can carry out innovative management experiences that the Public Administration does not accommodate, it will be all the SNS and the Portuguese that will benefit. For this reason, the PSD considers that the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health should be possible, provided that two conditions are met: firstly, the rights of users, in particular in terms of access and gains in health; secondly, it is advantageous to the public interest, particularly in view of the consideration of quality-cost binomy or the introduction of innovative management methodologies. Only in this way, without ideological prejudices, can we increase the efficiency of the SNS for the benefit of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u96	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Certainly to the surprise of some, this « liberal minute » starts with a reference to Marx. Exactly, that Marx, Karl Marx. The Marx that made humanity cry, not what made her laugh. This Marx said that religion was the opium of the people, which makes us immune to reason. Religion and, I add, its next cousin, which is ideological obsession. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] Otherwise, let's see. The new Health Bases Act is the result of ideological obsession. The private sector has been relegated to the role of a dispensable partner, to be placed and arranged in an "additional and temporary" form. This has been done in the wake of what is happening in almost all of Europe, where public service is provided by everyone. It was also revealed by the indications of the Court of Auditors, which stated that ending with PPPs, given the good results, lacked good justification. It was also done in the wake of UTAP ( Technical Project Monitoring Unit ), which demonstrated that the PPP of the Cascais hospital would have allowed the State to save more than 40 million euros. It is a good solution, but it does not satisfy the ideological obsession of our left, so that it is immune to reason. A good and timely solution, too, now that public hospitals have resuspended the activity, delayed surgeries and consultations and waiting lists were as never before. For the sake of people or, if you are not interested, by the sustainability of the SNS itself, the PCP and the Left Block cannot remain immune to reason and evidence. The Liberal Initiative here will be to remind you of this even as necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u98	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. A year ago, we were in this House, in the Health Committee, voting on the Basics Law, which actually gives rise to the discussion we are having today. The Secretary of State Jamila Madeira was on this side of the Chamber at the time and must remember this vote. In any case, I relived the memory: together with the left and PSD proposals, the CDS also presented its own proposal, to a large extent close and starting from a comprehensive text brought by Prof. Maria de Belém, at the request of the then Minister of Health, Prof. Adalberto Campos. It was a consensualized, moderate, comprehensive text that framed the SNS as a structural pillar of the health system, which mobilized the private sector, with hospitals, clinics, laboratories, pharmacy, and the social sector, with the mercy and IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), to better serve the health needs of Portuguese. Prof. Maria de Belém's proposal was sacrificed to management and that of the CDS was plunged on the left. The vote, in the specialty, was carted, but it was also the expected, looking for the minimum, repeat, the minimum common denominator between the PS, the PCP and the Block, thus minimizing a law that, in fact, we have always said that it would never be the answer to the many difficulties of the SNS and the health system. And because we couldn't finish the legislature without passing the law, because it was a point of honour to the left, the parties tried to leave one of the major points of disagreement: the PPPs. They passed the law to keep everything in it, came the elections, came the peace obtained with this postponement and, now, surprise of surprises, what we all knew would happen: the government regulates PPPs, by a decree-law that basically overrides the text of the Basic Law, which allows to finish, but also allows to make new PPPs or concessions, and the left behaves like the'misleaded husband', in a theatre to which we sincerely preferred to be spared. For the CDS, the problem is in fact in the initial structure of the Basic Law — statesman, reductive and outdated — and the decree-law we are discussing today is only a sequel to that. But the discussion becomes very interesting as the Bloc and the PCP insurgency, presenting these parliamentary assessments, because and every attempt these parties make to undermine health in a monopolistic response of the state will have the clear opposition of the CDS. Without a doubt, the State must guarantee the right to health protection, but it must also do so in an economically efficient way for the taxpayer and in time and hours for the citizens, which clearly the SNS alone is not able to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u100	The next intervention was Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is never too much to remember that Decree-Law No. 23/ 2020 lays down the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health, with a supplementary and temporary character and in cases of justified need. With regard to public-private partnerships, well, anyone heated with cold water is afraid. This is because, in Portugal, the framework regimes of public-private partnerships allowed, due to little in-depth analysis, with criteria not focused on real needs, to occur worrying phenomena of budgeting, which led to sustainability problems in public accounts. Under this contract, as we all know, the State has repeatedly linked itself to ruinous clauses, with serious damage to the public record. For this reason, the NAP has defended, and considers it essential, the mandatory independent assessment of the impact on the sustainability, in the medium and long-term perspective, of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts. In the case of health, the Basics Act affirms the public and universal character of the National Health Service, assuming the private and social sectors an important role from the suppletive point of view. in this exceptional period of COVID-19, the National Health Service once again demonstrated its high response capacity, in which it was clearly one of the hardest proofs of its existence, but also in this period it was very clear the need to review the cooperation between public and private sectors in the field of health. In fact, we even learned at the regimental hearing that there were several cooperation agreements concluded by the State, precisely because much of the private sector decided not to fulfil its role. Sadly, he had an opportunity to show his role as a partner and to respond to people's real needs in health issues. As for the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, as much as we can agree with the need to respond to the long waiting lists, that is, while in Portugal it is expected for a consultation, depending on the specialty and according to the health unit, we cannot fail to say that what the IL tries to do is to transform something complementary and temporary into something perennial, seeking this opportunity to completely transform this decree-law. We have no doubt that articulation can and should be done through various models, but clearly must be guaranteed public interests, which are often relegated to the background, through a cost-benefit logic. They are also relegated to the background the appreciation of professionals, the quality and safety of the provision of health care to users.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u102	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u103	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is necessary to make a long path of political decisions so that the Government can effectively guarantee universal health responses and give timely response of quality to all citizens. Therefore, the NAP presented a project with 13 reasons, which are also 13 solutions, strengthening and structural reform in health. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u104	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, who is Mr. Paulo Marques of the Socialist Party, the Bureau wants to ask for your understanding again so that Members and Members who do not take part in the first row will do the favor of using their mask, regardless of whether there are vacant places, or not, ahead. It is a rule that all of us are linked, so we wanted to draw attention to it. Thank you very much. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mr Paulo Marques, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I confess that I have some difficulty in participating in this discussion, and I will explain why. On the one hand, we have the PSD, which accuses the government of introducing more ideological elements, and on the other hand we have the PCP and the Left Block, which understand that the Government is doing what the Basics Law does not allow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u106	It's cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u107	The Assembly of the Republic, I recall, approved in 2019 a new law of bases, the result of the discussion held here, which received contributions from many of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen present. It was approved by a large majority. This Basic Law, I repeat, resulted in a political-ideological commitment that was achieved among the parties that composed the previous Legislation. I repeat: commitment. to PSD, I will say yes, it is true that this Basics Law has a new paradigm, i.e., it is objective of strengthening the National Health Service. We intend to give the public sector prevalence in the clinical management of SNS establishments, it is true—we assume that. However, we know that the Constitution of the Republic Portuguese gives the State a dominant role in the field of health through the SNS, but also provides for the existence of social and private sectors under regulation and public supervision. According to the legislation in force, private and social sectors will be able to manage public goods, but only with a supplementary and temporary character and only in cases of justified need. This is the result of today's decree-law in parliamentary appreciation and Base 6 of the Health Bases Act. I assume it is clear the way we want to go. As for the Left Block and PCP, it is not possible to read what is not written in the Health Bases Act. The primacy seems clear to all, from left to right. In the discharge of responsibility for the management of the public thing, we cannot, we must not see this possibility, if, to that end, there is a well-founded need, I repeat, if, to that end, there is a well-founded need. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Government is fulfilling its commitment with the Portuguese to strengthen the SNS, and it will continue to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are fulfilling and will continue to work to make the SNS even more capable and innovative, closer to the users and more appropriate to the new challenges of Portuguese demography. The decree-law of this request for parliamentary assessment is to implement the provisions of the Health Bases Act approved in this Hemicycle, in which the recourse to entities of the private sector and the social sector of health, to exist, has to be substantiated and must occur only on a supplementary and temporary basis, contrary to the law of previous bases, in which the private competed with the public. The legislator was cautious about the future that we always don't know. We know where we want to go and how. We have an obligation to maintain the person as the central element of design, organization and operation of institutions, services and health responses, in addition to the management model. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u108	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we discuss a proposal that essentially has as its basis a certain ideological obsession of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. Let's take the example of Braga's hospital, the Braga's PPP : it had a 100 % increase in consultations, a 100 % increase in surgeries, a 75% increase in analyses, saved the state between 300 and 400 million euros. The Left Block doesn't want to know. The Portuguese Communist Party prefers not to see. What matters is always talking about it: more public, less public; more public, less public. It was all good for the taxpayer. It was all good for the user. It was all good for health. But when ideological obsession is above what's good for the user and what's good for the country, we're talking and we've got the path! But this time, we cannot say that the Socialist Party has cheated on the left. In fact, on May 2, last year, Antonio Costa said there would be supplementary and temporary PPPs. My friends, all PPPs are temporary. He just didn't see who he didn't want. Certainly, the Left Block realized what António Costa meant. Jerome de Sousa certainly realized what António Costa meant.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u110	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u111	I will finish, Mr. President. So don't come to this House now to pretend to be offended with the Socialist Party, when they knew that, as they knew from the 600 million euros for the New Bank, as they knew there would be no housing program! And when the Budget came, they gave them their hand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u112	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u113	It's always been like this! Do not become offended virgins!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u114	Mr Alvaro Almeida has the floor since he still has time to make a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I just wanted to leave two notes very quickly, being the first for Mr Paulo Marques. I would like to tell you that the Health Bases Act does not require the management of the SNS to be of one form or another. In fact, the only thing the Health Bases Act foresees about the management of SNS units is that it has to be mostly public. So it doesn't have to be supplementary, it doesn't have to be temporary. therefore, the PSD considers that, since there are clear advantages in PPPs — it is not always, in cases where these advantages exist — they should be taken advantage of. It would be a lack of good sense not to. Finally, I just wanted to remind the Left Block that whoever closed the gastro emergencies at Braga hospital was public management, it wasn't private management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u116	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, the Under-Secretary of State and Health, Jamila Madeira, to whom the Bureau greets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of the new Health Bases Act, in the past legislation, in which I was very proud to be involved, was in fact a historic framework for strengthening and consolidating a country's commitment to the National Health Service. Today, the Basics Act makes it clear, without any doubt, that the responsibility of the State for the realization of the right to health protection is first effective through the SNS and only in a supplementary and temporary manner, and in case of a reasoned need, with private entities and the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u119	This was all the more, no less, that this Parliament approved on 19 July 2019. In the path of the design that has been approved here, the Government, with the decree-law that we now discuss in the form of parliamentary appreciation, fulfils this desire and assumes this paradigm change in the face of the past. Yes, if the 2002 decree-law advocated a lasting association with the entities of the private and social sectors, without requiring their additional character, the decree-law that we today appreciate guarantees the primacy of the public health service, admitting only, supplely, temporarily, and before justified need, the recourse to those sectors. In the future — we can say this without any problems — if we meet these requirements and if we have to do so, we will do so, but with clear and sound limits that guarantee the continuation of the public interest. It should therefore be stressed that the approved diploma requires management entities to move in all situations by the same principles of public management applicable to any of the entities that integrate the SNS. For the Government, this is the solution, and not the other, of commitment expressed in the Health Bases Act and which the Portuguese have conquered over the past year. This is the solution — and no other more mercantilist perspective — that puts users first. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] This is the solution that does not refuse the use of private initiative, when strictly necessary, but also not sacralise it in contrast to public management, as some do. This is the balanced solution that best serves the SNS, which all belongs to. The SNS is everyone's, and that's how we want it to go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u120	And serve people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u121	That is why the question that arises, to which Parliament has submitted its opinion, is whether we would be better off with the 2002 regime. But the government is absolutely clear: no, we wouldn't stay! [[P.S.'s applause.]] those who now use this discussion to resume the debate concluded last year on the new basic law, if what they really want is this welcome return to the past,... [[Protests by PSD Member Ricardo Baptista Leite and the CDS-PP Member Ana Rita Bessa.]] ...then, it is important to remember what this represents. Mrs. Members, it represents a legal framework in which the private competes with the public, in which the State is responsible—and I will say slowly, so that we do not forget—for supporting the development of the private health sector and for facilitating the mobility of health professionals between the public and private sectors, doing so regardless of the resources, costing and sacrificing the availability of the SNS. [[Protests by the CH and PSD Member Adam Silva.]] It is important not to forget that we took all the options we had to take and, with this decree, we took the options that safeguard the future of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u122	The Block didn't like anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u123	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for a very quick intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP, precisely because it is understood that this diploma does not solve but that the previous one is not good either,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u125	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u126	... submitted proposals for amendment in which it made very clear the principles and objectives of public management of health institutions of the National Health Service. Yes, we defend public management. The evidence shows that users who moved to hospitals managed by PPP were not cared for and sent to public hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u127	You can say whatever you want, but that's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u128	That's a lie, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u129	Please conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u130	The evidence shows that there was a change in health situations in order for the State to make financial transfers to these private groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u131	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u132	Yes, I will conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: what best defends the public interest and the interest of users is the National Health Service. Therefore, the State's financial resources should not be channelled to private groups, but rather to the SNS to strengthen it and to increase its capacity to respond to the needs of users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u133	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are doing here is to comply with the Government's Programme and the Health Bases Act which we have here approved. PPPs are not a dogma, they are management tools, they are risk sharing tools between the public and the private sector, on a temporary basis, and always with an assessment of the solution that best protects the public record and the health of Portuguese. The decree-law that establishes that public-private partnerships have an additional role in the SNS is balanced, not based on dogmas, but only in the provision of health care through the SNS, with the provision of the best health care for all Portuguese. That is what the Portuguese demand of us, that is what we have to give them and that is what they deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u135	For the closure of this item on the agenda, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by noting that Mr Ventura must have made bingo in this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u137	Talk about health!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u138	In addition to working for those who make tax planning, which is an euphemism that everyone knows, in addition to their particular interest in visasgold and having in their party everything that is luxury real estate speculation, besides voting for the distribution of millionaire dividends in full crisis, as well as missing the votes on the fight against money laundering, the honourable Member is now also on the side of the health business. It's bingo, sir! The honourable Member is not really speaking here by the Portuguese or representing them, he is representing the interests of those who live on the behalf of those who work in this country. It's bingo! I hope you'll be paid lunch, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u140	About our project to cease, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PS has said that it is clear the path it intends to take. Of course, but it's a bad way, because it's the same path of PSD and CDS-PP in relation to public-private partnerships in health. It's getting clearer, but it's a terrible way to go.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u141	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u142	In fact, the praise of the right-wing benches on this issue was clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u143	He's jealous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u144	On the cessation of validity, I want to say that the Health Bases Act is very clear: it is up to the government to make a development legislation that defines the terms in which the public management of the SNS is done. But the government did the opposite, it did development legislation that defines how private management is done. Therefore, for the Left Block, this decree-law must end immediately, it must cease its operation and the Government must respect the Health Bases Act, once again producing and presenting a decree-law that states how public management is done in the SNS. I repeat, public management; not private management, Mr Secretary of State! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u145	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u146	Mr. André Ventura, are you asking for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u147	Mr. President, it's for honor's sake.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u148	Mr President, quite frankly, the Bureau did not realize anything, but you will certainly say so. You have every right. Do the favor is to wear the mask, because that's what it has to be. He'll make the defense of honor but with mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u149	Mr President, sometimes I think the Block has a certain masochism and likes to hear what I am going to say now. I'm gonna say it, 'cause I've seen you like it. [[PS and BE protests.]] I already realized that Mr Moisés Ferreira and the Block of Left have an obsession with arriving, with the real estate interests of arriving and with those who work in arriving. But I'm not the one who has a local accommodation and I'm always talking about tourism! It's not me, sir! [[BE's protests.]] Do you know anything else, Your Honor? I'm not the one who sells houses in Lisbon and I was a vice president of the Block! Would you like more, Mr. Deputies? I am not the one who gives an address that is not mine to receive subsidies from Parliament! It's not me! [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u150	Mr President, you will excuse me, but you will do well to say that your honor has been offended. That's essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u151	Now you'll hear! Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira came here to say that, basically, the Arrival is a party that is devoted to private interests, to private interests, when the Left Block has done so 20 years ago. 20 years ago! [[BE's protests.]] In fact, just to conclude, I will make it very clear — Mr Moses Ferreira, never forget about this — the following: it is not the André Ventura who talks about tourism, real estate speculation and is partner with a local accommodation. He's not André Ventura, he's the leader of the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u152	Mr President, your question is already clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u153	Next time, I repeat what I said! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u154	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to explain, if you so understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u155	Mr. President, so politically correct is Mr. So politically correct! I am not going to prolong this issue very much because I know that you are going to cry for social networks and then you will threaten to end social networks and, if you want to play, you will take the ball and no one will play! ...we know that! I even thought that the honourable Member would take advantage of the defence of honour—I do not know, but I think it was the regimental figure he evoked—to explain why he promised to be exclusive and accumulate several salaries;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u156	Again the same story? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u157	... to explain why voting on money laundering is missing; to explain why it is one of the most missing Members of the vote;... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u158	... to explain why, instead of defending the people who are displaced, he defends real estate speculation; to explain why he works in companies that make tax planning — he knows that this is an euphemism for something, don't you know? ; to explain why it defends the golden visas;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u159	But which one did you see gold? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u160	... to explain why, in full crisis, it defends the payment of millionaire dividends to large companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u161	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u162	...most of them foreign, that money came out of the country. Mr President, I believe that it was neither offended at your honor nor taken advantage of to give the explanations that were really necessary. That's so politically correct, Mr. Deputies! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u163	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u164	Mr André Ventura, explanations have already been given. This incident is over.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u165	Mr President, I just want to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy. But don't forget to wear the mask. That's what it has to be, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u167	Mr. President, it's just to ask... [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u168	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting Mr Andre Ventura ask what you have to ask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u169	You're very nervous today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u170	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u171	Mr President, since it was indicated by Mr Moisés Ferreira that I fail to vote, I would like to ask where is Mrs Catarina Martins. He's not here! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u172	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bills Nos 393 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures extraordinary social protection support for workers without access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms, 367 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance applicable to workers on behalf of others, self-employed and informal workers excluded from other support, 415 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Decreasing to half of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit, end-of-activity allowance and termination allowance ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020 of 7 May ), 427 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional and temporary work contract suspension scheme for non-pocket payment and 428 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improvement of conditions of access to social unemployment benefit. To present the legislative initiatives of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Exceptional times require exceptional measures and urgent responses that defend workers' rights, wages and incomes and guarantee their social protection. over the last three months, we have had clear examples of how the virus has been a pretext for brute workers: wild layoffs of thousands of workers, today being more than 100 000 registered workers in situations of unemployment; placement of workers on forced holidays and imposition of long working days without paying overtime; unilateral change of working hours; cuts in wages and other income; denial of the exercise of maternity and paternity rights; failure to comply with hygiene, health and safety standards at work; pressure behaviors, repression and blackmail on workers. The workers in a precarious situation suffer particularly from attacks on their rights: false green receipts, workers from temporary work, outsourcing, workers at the time, pockets, trainees, workers in an experimental period. The reality of work precariousness is also the reality of the precariousness of social protection and the lack of rights, which feels more powerful than ever at times like this. These workers are the first to pay the bill that employers and capital want to impose. The CFP has had persistent intervention in this context, denouncing the situations, rejecting all the attacks, firmly repudiating the exploits and opportunisms of which the bosses have been protagonists, especially the large economic groups. In view of this reality, the CFP has built and presented proposals to respond to the problems of workers. We have proposed, of course, the prohibition of lay-offs; the full payment of wages; the right to sickness and child assistance and net payments to 100 %; the automatic extension and renewal of social benefits due to unemployment, cessation of activity, cessation of work and other social benefits; the right to pay supplement for workers who ensure services defined as essential; social protection for self-employed persons, for workers at work, for workers with precarious working links. In the face of persistent problems, we insist on the need for solutions. So we have three initiatives to discuss. We propose extraordinary support for workers without access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms, responding to the problems felt by thousands of workers who are false green receipts, false independent workers, but also for workers with atypical forms of work, including workers without any formal link to work and not covered by any social security system. We also propose measures to regulate the links between these workers so that their situation of precarious work and informality is eliminated at once. Knowing the existence of many workers with wages of May, April, March and until February late and without any income or access to unemployment benefit, and the significant part of these workers and, despite the late wages, they continue to perform their duties and present themselves to the service, the CFP presents exceptional and temporary solutions which, in these situations often dramatic, guarantee incomes for these workers. We also propose better conditions for access to social unemployment benefit, in particular by eliminating its guarantee period, in order to respond to the situation of many workers who do not meet the requirements for access to social protection, as well as improving the condition of resources and simplifying the allocation process. Rights are not quarantined or confined. It is an essential condition for the development and progress of the country, but also to face the moment we live, the defense of wages and the rights of workers. And it is precisely in this sense that the proposals that the CFP brings to the discussion today are going. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u174	Mrs Diana Ferreira, our congratulations to you for having made your speech just in the precise time it was intended for you. You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal there are hundreds of thousands of workers who have seen their source of income disappear, either because they have been fired or because they have been out of activity, as in the case of self-employed workers or individual entrepreneurs. There are tens of thousands of precariouss that were discarded by companies when they were in experimental period, because they were the green receipt, because they were temporary workers or because they were workers brokered by other companies, industry, trade or even public services, as happened to the workers of the school canteens. We are also talking about long-term employees who have been fired or whose contract has ceased, and many of them are unprotected and are not covered by existing unemployment benefits. Indeed, for some years now, the unemployment benefit coverage ratio has been between 40 % and 60 %. More than 270 000 unemployed are currently registered and registered in employment centres and do not have access to unemployment benefit. A significant part of the new unemployed do not have access to unemployment benefit, either because they do not meet the required guarantee deadlines, either because they do not fall within the condition of resources required by the social unemployment benefit, or because their protection scheme does not give them access to unemployment benefit, as is the case with domestic workers or lawyers and applicants, or because they are simply not covered by any protection scheme. in this situation are informal workers, which represent 25% of the economy; they are workers on digital platforms, such as Uber, which are estimated to be able to reach now about 10% of the workforce; they are waged domestic workers, in their overwhelming majority without access to unemployment benefit and fully dependent on the goodwill of employers; they are lawyers and applicants, who are discounted to a own box that does not give them any protection in case of unemployment or break of activity. But this is also the case of many self-employed workers, because 180 000 self-employed people have asked for extraordinary support for activity reduction, but most of them have support that is below the indexer of social support and therefore below the poverty threshold. I am referring, for example, to the case of some spectators or show and audiovisual workers, in which 80 % saw their activities cancelled due to the closure of the showrooms or cinemas. The Government has now announced the duplication of the minimum ceiling of support for self-employed workers, a strengthening mechanism for cultural workers and a measure for informal workers who are not yet regulated. But there are many workers who are still out of these measures. For example, and as I have already mentioned, lawyers and applicants do not have any protection measures and domestic workers are out of all the measures announced by the Government in the event of unemployment. In some countries, efforts have been made to address the failures of social protection systems through extraordinary benefits — it has been done in Spain — and that is also what the Left Block here proposes. In other words, it proposes an extraordinary grant of unemployment and cessation of activity to respond to all workers who have lost their jobs but are outside existing social benefits. This is a solidarity provision financed by the State budget, which must also be used to carry out a census and fight against informal work in Portugal. It is a measure not only fair but essential, if we do not want to leave anyone behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u176	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The economic and social situation resulting from the pandemic crisis in which we live has, of course, the greatest impact on those with the most difficulties, especially at employment level. The drop in employment and the increase in unemployment were the first practical reflection of the social impact of this crisis. So in the first few months we had a 24 % increase in the number of unemployed, which is obviously a very worrying sign and an immediate sign of need for intervention. It is true that, at the initiative of the Government and of opposition parties, we have already been adopting measures to address, from a social point of view, the resulting failures here. It happens that that's not enough. And it is not enough because, with regard to unemployment, there is a structural reality that is in line with the conjunctural reality of the pandemic crisis, which is the coverage rate of unemployment benefit. We have never had such a massive decline from one month to the next, as has happened now, with a drop of five percentage points in the unemployment benefit coverage rate. That which, in February, was a coverage rate of 56 %, went first to 51 % and now to 50 %, which means that in such a demanding situation half of the unemployed in Portugal do not have access to unemployment benefit. That is why the measures taken in relation to the guarantee period are not sufficient and, in our view, they deserve enlargement. What has been done for social unemployment benefit must also be done for unemployment benefit, for cessation of activity allowance and for termination of professional activity allowance. We know that, obviously, to the point of view of justice, makes sense so. Who is eligible for social unemployment benefit has had a contribution; who is eligible for unemployment benefit, certainly has not, for other reasons. But it does not make sense that, with contributions, there is no such adaptation of the guarantee deadline. in this sense, what the CDS here proposes is that, in order to respond to the conjuncural situation, the coverage rate increases. It should be remembered that the breakdown of the coverage rate did not happen during the time of the troika. Never in the time of the troika, from one month to the next, has the unemployment benefit coverage rate decreased by five percentage points! Therefore, the Government and the Socialist Party cannot close their eyes on this reality. It is essential that they look at it, that they look at the unemployed, that they consider the unemployed, that they consider all those whose activity has been interrupted and that they realize that it is not enough to intervene at the level of the social unemployment allowance, that it is also necessary to do so at the level of unemployment benefit. The proposal is clear, it is simple, it is socially fair and therefore deserves the support of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u178	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the health crisis we are experiencing has brought with it an unprecedented economic crisis, in which thousands of workers have now seen to reduce or even disappear their source of income. Despite the measures taken, which aim at mitigating the effects of this crisis, there are no doubt a large number of professionals who have been excluded from the protection measures, such as informal workers, social security lovers, domestic employees and even lawyers, partners-managers, artists, among so many other professionals. From the very first moment that the NAP has defended the extension of social support to these workers, who now see their incomes at stake or reduced to nothing. The proposals that bring us present a set of concerns, which will endeavour to ensure access to these support to improve the conditions for access to unemployment benefit, which seems to us to be the most basic justice. It is particularly worrying, indeed, the situation of workers with precarious links, which at this stage have been seen without any social protection. We must not forget that many of these workers do not meet the requirements for access to unemployment benefit or social unemployment benefit because they do not, of course, comply with the guarantee deadlines. In addition, it is essential to ensure social protection for workers who have lost their jobs or who have suffered significant breaks in incomes, the result of stopping or reducing their activity. According to a recent study by the Portuguese Catholic University, known as « Covid-19 and the Portuguese — Life in quarantine time », more than one third of the respondents, 36 % now have incomes from the aggregate lower than before the crisis, with the percentage of aggregates losing higher income among the poorest, i.e. those who had monthly income up to €1000 represent 43 % of the population. At the time of the study, they felt loss of income in the aggregate about one third of the workers in telework and in presence work and about one out of four in layoffs and unemployment, and the data presented to us indicate as close to 10% of the population is in this situation. We also, of course, accompany the creation of extraordinary social protection support to workers not covered by other social protection mechanisms until the end of the exceptional and temporary response measures to COVID-19. We cannot forget that, unfortunately, at this stage, many sectors of activity and many professionals have been unprotected, without income and without access to any support. In view of the fact that this situation has been prolonged for several months, this puts them in a very vulnerable situation, both economically and socially, which results in the impossibility of dealing with daily expenses and ensuring their own subsistence and their families. One dimension that we cannot forget in this debate is that poverty, precariousness or persistent regional asymmetries themselves are the basis of absolutely unacceptable social and labour inequalities. This has been an example of how precarious work often continues to be poorly controlled or tolerated or how gender inequality continues, so many and so many times, to stay behind. All these dimensions deserve answers from us, and that is why we will generally follow the proposals that have been brought here today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u180	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has not signed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have emphasized, immediately since the beginning of this health emergency originated by the COVID, either through legislative initiatives, or through proposals for amendment, either through several requests to the Executive, the need to look at and not neglect...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u182	Mrs. Member, you'll excuse me, but you have to wear a mask. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u183	But there's no one in front of me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u184	Mrs. Member, don't take it wrong, but it's a criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u185	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u186	Mrs Deputy does not lead to harm, but we all have to follow the criteria. [[At this moment, the speaker went to the rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u187	Mr President, as I was saying, it is precisely because the health emergency is related to the social emergency and our structural inequalities that we should not, from the outset, neglect workers in informal situations. They're the thousands! In fact, to the individuals to whom we successively give the name of « individuals with precarious work», the fact is that they have no precarious work, they have a precarious salary, they have precarious conditions, because, with regard to schedules, they fulfill the same hours and, with regard to responsibilities, they have the same responsibilities. So the state cannot pretend that these individuals do not exist, even because many of them are part of those to whom we call today "essential workers", as is the case with employed domestic workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u188	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u189	I conclude, Mr. President. Obviously, I will vote in favour of these legislative initiatives, stressing that what we are deciding today should have been bailed out earlier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u190	The next intervention lies with Mrs Maria Joaquina Matos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic caused by the virus, in addition to being a serious public health emergency which it was necessary to respond to at the health level, by convening all available resources, has caused numerous economic and social consequences which have led the Government to adopt a wide range of exceptional and temporary measures to support family and employment, in particular through Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, and diplomas which commit support measures to protect jobs and create conditions for ensuring the income of families and the survival of businesses, as well as social protection measures in case of unemployment. these measures highlight the layoff, which covered a considerable number of companies and workers, and highlight the extraordinary support to respond to the reduction in the economic activity of the self-employed and the deferral of the payment of their contributions, as well as the recognition of the right to extend social security benefits in order to guarantee minimum subsistence benefits, and the reduction of the period of guarantees for social unemployment benefit operated by Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020. Beyond the most critical phase of the health emergency and confinement, and in the construction of a balanced solution between the progressive normalization of economic and social activity, without neglecting the health aspect and the control of the pandemic, we enter the stabilization phase, which will take place until the end of this year. The Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, which was adopted very few days ago at the meeting of the Council of Ministers, has as one of its strategic and priority axes the themes of social charities and support for people's incomes, especially those most affected by the pandemic. The programme may also find measures to strengthen and expand various social benefits, but also new instruments for social support. For the protection of income, there was the creation of the stabilization complement, an extraordinary support for workers who had reduced their incomes. There is also a measure of protection for independent and informal workers in a situation of social deprotection and a social support line for artists, authors, technicians and other arts professionals. The definition of the legal status of the intermittent worker is also envisaged in these artistic areas, with the study of working conditions and contributing careers, in a professional sector of great precariousness and one of the most fragile by the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u192	You would like to conclude, Mrs. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u193	Mr. President, just one more minute, just a little more.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute you don't.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u195	All these measures in support of companies, in the efforts to maintain jobs and in support of families to improve their incomes are social justice and generally respond to the claims made in the bills presented today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u196	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u197	It is necessary to consolidate the new measures now in force in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme and to reflect the supplementary budget, without prejudice to the subsequent assessment of the adaptation to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u198	The Bureau shall not give in to requests for extra minutes. That's not it. [[Laughing.]] Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Following the outbreak of the epidemic that led to the suspension of many activities and the confinement of the population, many workers were left without any means of subsistence and needed extraordinary support to cope with the reduction of economic activity, where they had their breadwinner. Many workers, in the most various professional situations, were covered by small social support, but they were left without a considerable part of their order and many thousands remained unemployed and without any financial support. We all know stories of professionals in the culture of the various areas, workers in the area of tourism and workers with precarious links that, because of the fragile contractual ties, see themselves in a desperate situation in which they depend on family or friends to cope with the daily expenses. Unfortunately, this epidemic, which, one day to the next, has come down on us, has left a terrible reality unearthed: that of thousands of women and men who, although they have worked — some more than a decade for one employer — if they are needed every day and fulfill their schedules, did not have an effective employment contract. And, too, sadly, we will soon see, at the beginning of the activities, the same employers recruit these or other workers in exactly the same conditions. It is not possible that the exceptional situation we are living in is an opportunity for exploitation, for the use of the fragile situation in which thousands of workers find themselves and for the continuation of temporary and poorly paid work. It is necessary to fight for the rights of those who work and, immediately, to ensure social support, without anyone having to walk hand-in-hand, until these people come together and take up their expenses. We heard stories of a world of work that we all knew and that some were striving to expose, in this way, to end this exploitation of work; while others wanted this precariousness and low wages to remain, so that the profits and the accumulation of wealth would remain only on one side. They said it was modern, that jobs for the rest of their lives ended and that without a contract there was more freedom. This work precariousness is transformed into social precariousness, into precariousness in the lives of each individual, into precarious payment of income, in the payment of day care, in the payment of bills of electricity, water, supermarket. This genuine plague of green receipts and daily contracts, and all that some are able to create, leads thousands to be completely netless in this new situation, not meeting the requirements of access to any social support, even if exceptional and temporary. An urgent response is required to return dignity to these women and men who are not responsible for the crisis, but who are victims of this virus that already existed before the epidemic, which is precarious, which must also be defeated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u200	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today, a few days after the entry of the supplementary State budget, a set of initiatives of the CFP, the CDS and the BE that seek to introduce speed in the conditions of access to unemployment benefit and the end-of-activity allowance by reducing the guarantee period. Having analysed the projects, I would also like to stress that we follow up and agree with some of the concerns and measures expressed. However, and without prejudice to the fact that we are discussing these initiatives today, the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that they should be brought down to the Commission without a vote, since they cover the same matter and one of them intends to amend the Labour Code. Having not completed the public assessment, they should therefore be lowered to that end. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we live an exceptional moment that requires, on the part of the State, also exceptional measures, structured and able to give effective and direct response to people affected by the pandemic. However, it happens that a significant number of the rough measures implemented by the Government aimed to respond only immediately. in this sense, thinking about the present but looking forward, last May, the president of the PSD, Dr. Rui Rio, presented the Social Emergency Program COVID-19, which covers a set of proposals and measures designed to minimize and mitigate the socio-economic effects caused by the pandemic after public calamity. The Social Emergency Programme COVID-19 is the contribution of the PSD to the Government's Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme. In the document submitted by the PSD, a set of concrete proposals for support for families are listed, including the reduction of the guarantee period in access to unemployment benefit and termination allowance, and also a possible subsidy for families who have lost income during the pandemic, which clearly demonstrates our agreement with some of the concerns expressed in the initiatives under discussion today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD reaffirms the need to implement measures that are true social emergency responses, capable of responding to the needs and weaknesses of the population, especially the most fragile and vulnerable population of society. Without prejudice to the contributions and all this discussion, we believe that this should be discussed in the context of the supplementary State budget in order to pay attention to the labour law. Finally, Mr President, saying that we generally agree with the concerns present in these initiatives, but we believe that, as I said, they should be the subject of discussion at their own level, that is to say, in the assessment of the supplementary State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u202	For a new intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are projects on the Labour Code that did not have a period of public discussion, then it makes sense that they do, but to extraordinary measures in the area of social security do not apply the same provision. For us, the effectiveness of these measures is not consistent, above all, with a procedure which takes place in the committee only for one month to consult, another month for the speciality process and we would arrive at the end of this legislative session without any measures adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u204	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u205	I conclude, Mr. President. These are therefore urgent measures to respond to workers who are now without support and must be voted on today so that they can reach those who are afflicted in time. We therefore call on all parliamentary groups to ensure that these measures can be adopted today in plenary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u206	For the closure of this point, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the legislative initiative of the CFP, which has indeed fallen without a vote, as we reported yesterday in the Committee on Labour, it does not alter, as we said, labour legislation, nor amend the Labour Code. However, as a matter of labour law, we have asked the Commission to be discharged so that its public assessment can be carried out. Mrs. Members, on the subject that is currently under discussion, what is required at this time is to ensure workers who are particularly vulnerable to social protection and minimum incomes so that they can have some dignity in their lives. This is what we are talking about, even because we have seen a reality in recent months of thousands of workers who have been fired wildly and who have been considered disposable by the bosses in our country. We can talk about a lot of companies, ladies and gentlemen. Members : from Preh, who fired 500 workers in port ;... [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] ... from Hutchinson, who fired hundreds of workers also in our country; from the Sceneic Tours or from Zenith restaurant chain, who also fired workers without even having social protection. We can also talk about the workers of temporary workers and workers who have been fired from the airport of Porto, whose legislation you have built allows them to have no social protection. They can all benefit from the initiatives that the CFP brings to the discussion here. We therefore call for these initiatives to be considered and approved to respond to thousands of workers who are currently without any social protection. What is really necessary is to guarantee the rights of workers, because in combating the virus there can be neither a step back nor a right to less. That is the compromise of the CFP and that is where our proposals go. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u208	Mrs. Members, we move to the sixth point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 394 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities, 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ), 423 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter the functioning of the organs of Banco de Portugal ( eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ) and 433 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Scheme for the appointment and removal of members of the board of directors of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ). To present the CDS-PP initiative, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS submits a proposal to change the rules for the appointment of various regulators, including the Banco de Portugal. It is ironic of the fate that, at the same time as we are discussing this proposal — in fact, often discussed — we are also aware that Mário Centeno will no longer be Minister of Finance. Indeed, this CDS proposal which has been discussed several times since 2009 by our initiative does not intend to be legislation to move concrete cases or to go after a specific name. However, because it is a sound and healthy legislation, it applies to this particular case. Because in the past the CDS did not talk about names, but about rules, it may be an irony of fate that at the moment, once again, we discuss the rule it applies as a glove to this particular case of the Minister of Finance, who has now ceased to be. What is required, in this legislation which I will introduce and which has to do with the process of appointing regulators, is the answer to two questions. First: if administrative entities, regulators, should be independent, or should they also be accountable and accountable to various sovereign bodies? To this question, the CDS answers « yes». Secondly, one of the articles refers to « guarantees of independence ». We also ask ourselves: what does it mean to someone who has been head of a business association, a company, a sector union or who has been a member of a government go directly to a regulator? Applying to the specific case, I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members can tell me that guarantees of independence would bring Governor Mário Centeno before the Minister of Finance João León? Do you really believe that the Governor, ex-Minister, would be independent from the Minister, his former Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u210	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u211	This is a fundamental issue and it is also fundamental that we realize that we are not only discussing the concrete case of Mário Centeno. We are discussing what we want for the regulation of Portugal and therefore the CDS is presenting a proposal that, yes, strengthens regulators and independent administrative entities in accordance with this principle: the Government proposes, the Assembly of the Republic listens and the President of the Republic appoints. The three sovereign bodies are called to this choice and it is before them that the regulators respond to the Portuguese. I think that no regulator, like Banco de Portugal, has made it so obvious the need to know how to distinguish between independence and absolute deresponsibility. The fact that a regulator is independent, and if it is fundamental, does not mean that it is not responsible to anyone. However, the way in which Banco de Portugal was not responsible to anyone is at the root of the discredit of the whole regulated sector and of the bank in front of the country itself and it was fundamental that we also reflected on this and that we could give an answer. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as proof of goodwill, the CDS will vote in favour of all the projects presented here, either on the creation of incompatibilities or on the method of appointment, confident that, in the specialty, we will be able to find an answer that is consensual and that responds to common concerns to various parties, provided that necessarily the other parties with proposals also know how to correspond to this desire. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u212	To present the draft law of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PAN brings to plenary the opportunity to discuss a crucial topic for the country, the subject of the rules of appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal and other members of the Board of Directors. This is an important issue, given that the last 10 years of Carlos Costa's term of office, and in particular the last five, were marked by the incompetence of supervision and by successive scandals that weakened the figure of the Governor and the Banco de Portugal itself. More than ever, it is necessary to ensure that the next Governor of Banco de Portugal is someone credible, competent, free from political pressures or pressures of the regulated, not permeable to scandals, stripped of conflicts of interest and, above all, not to remain, as Carlos Costa was from the first day of his mandate, in a trench between extreme political positions. What we discussed is whether the country has learned something with the 10 years of Carlos Costa or whether, within a year or two, it will prefer to be discussing the exoneration of the next Governor of Banco de Portugal. Today, we are discussing whether we want a strong and independent Banco de Portugal or whether we want a weak Banco de Portugal and a weapon of shooting between political parties, as it has been in recent years. Apart from structural changes that we should discuss calmly on another occasion, some changes are needed in the process of appointing the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, which aim to respond to three specific problems already identified. The first problem was identified in 2017, in the analysis of the Working Group for the Reform of the Financial Supervision System, and concerns the need to strengthen the role of Parliament in the appointment process, giving it a power of opposition. The law is clear, Parliament makes a hearing of the chosen one and a descriptive report of the hearing, which, as the name indicates, only describes the hearing. Contrary to what happens to regulatory entities, there is no need to adopt an opinion on the adequacy of the profile of the person chosen to perform the functions to be performed. This is precisely what the NAP proposes: that Parliament should adopt an opinion similar to that which exists within the regulatory bodies, that this opinion be binding on the Government and that it should be approved by a qualified majority so that these positions are occupied by people who meet an extended consensus and that the majority that supports the Government should not remain. The second problem concerns the need to increase the vote on the political choice by the Minister of Finance, which in the current framework does not have to justify to Parliament the name chosen for the position of Governor, which represents a huge lack of accountability. As is the case in Spain, for example, we propose that the Minister of Finance should come to the Committee on Budgets and Finance to explain his choice. The third problem is the need to stop a system of rotating doors which over the years has existed between the Banco de Portugal and politics, the commercial bank and financial consultants. I remember that Banco de Portugal is the regulator that most people from the regulated have in its Board of Directors and that 42 % of its members have come from the world of politics. This is what we want to avoid when we propose a five-year period for those who have held positions in the commercial bank, in the government and in the financial consultants. In the specialty, we can discuss whether you want a longer or smaller deadline, but it seems to us that the NAP proposal is a good starting point for the discussion, since there will certainly be a consensus, in that this kind of unethical dance of chairs undermines the independence of the Banco de Portugal and its supervisory work. The challenge and objectives of the NAP are clear: to achieve a strong, independent and credible Banco de Portugal, free from pressures from the commercial bank, financial consultants or political power. We hope that all parties will be available to discuss the NAP proposals and to improve them at the centre of discussion in the specialty. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u214	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative knows that they will find that the Bill we present is about former Minister Mário Centeno and the possibility that he will pass directly from the Ministry of Finance to Governor of Banco de Portugal. They will also think that this Bill appears only because it is not obvious that Mr. ex-Minister is the best person to occupy the position either because his leadership in the Eurogroup was questioned or because the ECB ( European Central Bank ) has undermined the lack of independence that the proposals for the supervisory model were closing. In fact, this Bill is about things far more perennial: it is about ethics, transparency and merit, but it is also about rotating doors, about better supervision and about increasing the independence of regulatory entities. The Liberal Initiative advocates the need for a genuine reform of the Banco de Portugal governance model ; that the members of its social bodies be chosen exclusively by virtue of international competition, without proximity to political power; that the independence of the spirit and conflicts of interests of candidates are effectively scrutinized, as they are already already in the ECB; and that the internal supervision of the Banco de Portugal is also strengthened. It is essential that Banco de Portugal be a competent and independent supervisor. For the Liberal Initiative, such is not compatible with rotating doors nor with close to political power. This proposal takes a step in this direction and deserves the approval of this House, in particular that of the PSD, which still yesterday prevented the hearing of the new minister but here has an opportunity to show his commitment to independence from the supervision of the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u216	You now have the floor, for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In advance, I would like to say that the Greens' proposal has nothing to do with Banco de Portugal and much less with Mário Centeno. The proposal submitted by the Greens aims to amend the Framework Law on Independent Administrative Entities, which as we know does not apply to Banco de Portugal. I would also like to say that the first amendment to the Framework Law on Independent Administrative Entities was based on a Green legislative initiative, with amendments affecting relevant matters, including the morality of the salaries of its administrators and the clarification of the system of incompatibilities and impediments to the exercise of the corresponding functions. However, in this legislative initiative too, the Greens considered that, within the framework of the appointments of administrators, the role reserved for the Assembly of the Republic was ineffective and insufficient. Therefore, we proposed that the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic should be binding and that, because it has powers to monitor the work of these administrators, this sovereign body could also expound its removal or dissolution whenever there was justified reason. It follows that the latter proposals have not been adopted. Because we believe that the same proposals remain today, we again present them, until in some cases it has been shown that the fact that only one body — the government — has effective power over the appointment process has led to distortions in these same processes. Indeed, and as an example, we see the Court of Auditors'decision in a recent report on the regulatory activity of civil aviation carried out by the National Civil Aviation Authority ( ANAC ). This report tells us that there are managers in office for whom they are not legally qualified, because they are in situations of conflict of interest and with legal impediments, precisely because the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic has not been respected. The Court of Auditors even points out that, despite such impediments and conflicts of interest in this opinion, this situation was completely ignored by the PSD / CDS government, which appointed the administrators in violation of the law and in disregard of the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic. Moreover: the Court of Auditors concludes that «it is important to no longer sustain or repeat the situations resulting from deficiencies in the management of ANAC due to the significant risks identified, including limitations to the exercise of functions, due to lack of legal coverage or conflict of interest situations, which are detrimental to the public interest ». It is not the Greens who say so, it is the Court of Auditors. However, since the ENP position coincides with the Court of Auditors'findings, we consider it to be of all relevance to discuss these matters again, based now on that Court's assessed position. In fact, in order to qualify the regulation as independent, one of the essential assumptions lies in the real independence of the administrators of these entities in relation to the government, knowing that it is only achieved through the implementation of a process of appointment of these managers that are more exempt, more transparent and, above all, more binding for those who intend to take over the management of these entities. We therefore believe that governments cannot have non-syndicable powers and without any limits in respect of these appointments and now we know the report of the Court of Auditors most needed to strengthen the role of the Assembly of the Republic, either in the process of monitoring the activities of the administrators of these entities, or in the process of appointing them, relativising the role of governments, whose immediate interests in the markets regulated by these entities are permanently a greater risk of instrumentalization of these administrators, with a view to the implementation of sectoral policies of a precarious and conjunctural nature and often even electoristic nature. These are the reasons behind the proposal which The Greens bring today for discussion and, I repeat, that nothing has to do with the Banco de Portugal problem or with Mário Centeno, because it is not a personalized proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u219	Mr Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I wanted the fate that we discussed this proposal a few minutes after we knew that Mário Centeno had left the government and that the man who was here recently defending a proposal leaves the government on this very day. Great respect for Parliament on the day when I knew that by the end of the afternoon I would no longer represent the government! [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] It seems that Mário Centeno wanted to leave before today's vote was taken. Maybe history comes up to do what's gonna happen. in a country where ministers who represented the State went to work for the same company that traded with the State, we can come to have a minister who supervises the Banco de Portugal and goes directly to work in Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u221	Minister who supervises the Banco de Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u222	In the middle of this, only one institution can prevent it : Parliament. That is what we want to achieve today, as well as the situation of independent administrative entities. If Mário Centeno goes to Banco de Portugal, we will once again have a national shame. The European institutions criticized the Government last year in relation to the appointment and confirmation process of those leading the Banco de Portugal. Only this House has the power to prevent one of the greatest national embarrassments from happening in the coming months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u223	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: Mário Centeno knew that he was going out and was questioned several times about it. Today, Mourinho Félix knew he was going out and was questioned about it, but still, he disrespected this House and pretended to be a minister for many hours, when he knew that his time, except for,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u225	Jesus Christ!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u226	...was close.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u227	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills under review concern the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal as well as administrators of different supervisory entities. For the PCP, more than the form of appointment, or who is appointed, it is important to question the model of supervision itself, independent, in its entirety, that has revealed its total ineffectiveness. A supposedly independent supervision in which governments are irresponsible of their role as guardian over the financial system. This is a model based on blind trust. The government blindly trusts the supervisor, the supervisor blindly trusts the external auditors, the external auditors blindly trust the administrators, who have the blind trust of the shareholders. And thus, in the way of the famous picture The Parábola dos Blindes, the financial system goes on to successive holes such as those of BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) / New Bank, Banco Internacional do Funchal ( International Bank of Funchal ), and those who pay are all Portuguese. It is this model, based on a false independence, which we question and which we counter to the only solution to place the bank and the financial system at the service of financing the real economy and the country, which is the guarantee of public control over the bank and the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u230	On these projects, there is one aspect that we do not want to mention: focusing concerns about fitness in the exercise of political positions is a mistake. The main problem of suitability is the risk of the regulator being caught by the sector itself that is regulated. That, yes, should be a much more serious concern, which is manifested not only in the positions but, above all, in alignment with the interests of industry agents, whether they are banking, energy, or any other, and not in defending the public interest. We understand that the draft law of the CDS is clearly unconstitutional, transferring the power to appoint the governing bodies of the independent administrative authorities of the Government to the President of the Republic. But in addition to the question of constitutionality, does the CDS consider that there is no exemption if the appointment is made by the Government, but that this exemption is already guaranteed if the appointment is made by the President of the Republic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u231	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u232	It seems so, sirs. Members, that the President of the Republic is also not a political position, subject to pressure, subject to electoral scrutiny, subject to different political options in the exercise of his mandate. What the CDS project and some of the other projects do is "throw sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese, to seek to whiteen their heavy responsibilities in the successive bank scandals that the Portuguese continue to pay, as is the case with the New Bank. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u233	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The independence of regulatory entities is essential in a democracy and hence the relevance of the debate we are having here today. It is not yesterday or today that must always be present in the political debate: the working conditions of independent entities must be ensured in the face of political power. For example, we have always proposed that they be free of the captives of the Ministry of Finance, but unfortunately we never managed to get a majority of parliament to subscribe to our position. Let us go to the facts: in this matter we do not want a revolution and therefore the projects that want a revolution will not have our viability. But we also do not want things to stay as they are and, as we do not want things to stay as they are, the projects that aim to change the mode of appointment will deserve our favourable vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u236	And why is it necessary to vote in favour? Because it is necessary to ensure independence in the face of political power. And right now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to hide our heads in the sand. It is soon the appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal and the question that must be going through all of us today is whether or not there should be a period of disgust between the exercise of government functions and the role of Governor of Banco de Portugal. And our answer is « yes », there must be a period of disgust between the exercise of functions in the Government and then the exercise, or not, of functions in the administration of the Banco de Portugal. To find out if it should be a period of five, three or two years we have the process in the specialty, where we can come up with a sensible solution to find this period of disgust. But let's also talk about names. Someone believes in the independence of Banco de Portugal, governed by Dr. Centeno, who leaves today and tells his Secretary of State : « Look, if you don't mind, tomorrow, you appoint me as Governor of Banco de Portugal ». Anyone believe this? [[He's not PSD!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u237	Of course there are some who may pretend to believe, to do favors, but we are sure that most Portuguese don't fall into the story of the vicar. But unfortunately more is needed to be done than that, it must remain in the law, and quickly, so that sails in our democracy cannot even happen. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u238	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing bills that present new rules for selecting the Governor of Banco de Portugal, the Board of Directors and the administrations of independent administrative entities. For the PS Parliamentary Group, this debate and this set of proposals had a stronger meaning if they were integrated into an extended debate and initiative, as we did just one year ago, when we discussed here a bill for reform of the national financial supervision system. These proposals should be linked to strengthening the powers, powers and powers of supervisors and regulators and not to an isolated discussion of the rules of appointment of an independent authority or other administrative entity. What we want to know in this discussion is whether these proposals will be won to strengthen the independence of the Governor, in view of what the law already provides. So, let's analyze each of the projects that are under discussion. The NAP project proposes that the opinion of the Assembly of the Republic for the position of Governor of Banco de Portugal be binding and approved by a two-thirds majority, which is obviously a horrendous mistake, because it is more than since, in some situations, we will wait long for a Governor of Banco de Portugal and there will be a vacation in office.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u240	So go to the specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u241	in the same way, there will have to be a very extended commitment for a Governor to be identified and he will be dependent on this majority who approved him in the Assembly of the Republic. On the other hand, the NAP proposes a scheme of incompatibilities in access to the office of Governor or administrator of Banco de Portugal which does not leave anyone outside. It is that the NAP excludes all possible professionals with credibility and suitability to be Governor of Banco de Portugal, in the interest of presenting a bill to prevent citizens A, professional A, a competent citizen with the appropriateness and credibility recognized can exercise the position. [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] The NAP project is therefore a personalised project and it is totally unacceptable to legislate in a customised way, as the NAP intends. The CDS project proposes that, for the Banco de Portugal and for all independent administrative entities, the Government shall propose, the Assembly of the Republic shall listen and the President of the Republic shall appoint. I mean to tell the CDS we're against...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u242	No surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u243	... the extension of the powers of the President of the Republic to have that competence. And I refer to an intervention by a Member of the CDS in 2007 on this subject. He said, then, Mr Nuno Magalhães: "We accept, in line with what we have always defended, a 'parliamentation', and a reinforcement of it, of this ballot, but we do not consider it appropriate to 'presidialization', which is what is intended, that not only is not legally consistent with the Constitution as we believe that politically it can create, or enhance, climates of tension between organs of sovereignty, perfectly undesirable, and that it even goes in the opposite direction to the genesis of the organization of our political system. Do not keep on seeking. ” I have just quoted Mr Nuno Magalhães and nothing better than quoting a CDS Member to respond to the CDS proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also wanted to say that the project of the Liberal Initiative proposes that the Governor and the Board of Directors be selected through an international public contest, because this ensures more independence...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u244	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u245	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I was saying, the Liberal Initiative believes that an international public competition guarantees greater independence from the position of Governor and the Board of Directors of the Banco de Portugal. For our part, we are against the possibility of a non-national citizen being able to exercise the position of Governor, until he can be very independent of political pressures, but nothing guarantees us that he does not depend on financial interests based on other places and with interests very located in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u246	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u247	Mr President, to conclude, these bills are moving towards solutions that will not guarantee greater independence in the exercise of these functions and, for that reason, the PS is against. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u248	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are three issues under discussion, the first of which is the appointment rule of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. The Left Block has always argued that this appointment must be made with a binding opinion from the Assembly of the Republic, because that is to respect democracy and the rules of transparency. A two-thirds majority rule in the Assembly of the Republic to appoint the Governor of the Banco de Portugal is an appeal to the central bloc. The central block is part of the problems of financial stability, it is part of the problems of the rotating door, so it is not the solution to the rotating door. The second subject under consideration is the dismissal of the Governor of Banco de Portugal. Here, the Left Block maintains, as it has always argued, that the Assembly of the Republic must have the power to dismiss a Governor whenever repeated cases of incompetence occur. The place of Governor cannot be vital, in the sense that it is imposed by its own mistakes, by what it does and by the decisions it makes as Governor and in the performance of its functions. The third issue in question is that of incompatibilities and independence, and it is here that this debate is often sent, because there are those who want to treat the independence of Banco de Portugal (public sector) vis-à-vis the Government (public sector) as equivalent to the independence of Banco de Portugal (public sector) in the face of the pressure of the sector which is regulated, which is the private bank and also public when it behaves. It is that the problem of independence does not arise in the face of political and public power, the problem is against the bankers. 60 % of the members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal come from the bank, which is regulated by Banco de Portugal. Carlos Costa was Governor of Banco de Portugal, he was at the BCP das offshore, he was in the General Deposit Box and 15 years later he had to apologize because he was evaluating his actions as administrator at the Banco de Portugal. Carlos Costa has never been a politician, he has never been a ruler, but he has been obedient to the Coelho Pass government, which then has brought him back into place, despite all his incompetence and the wrong decisions he has taken, with a Parliament that has been tied up and has never managed to remove him. The problem is not the Banco de Portugal defending the public interest and the government defending the public interest. The problem is not the Banco de Portugal defending financial and economic stability and the government defending financial and economic stability. The problem is that Banco de Portugal is infiltrated by the private bank, thinks as a private bank, is complicit in private banking practices. The debate that interests is always about independence from the government, but what I am concerned about is that the interests of Banco de Portugal are not aligned with the public interests, which are the defense of financial stability, the defense of ethics, the defense of economic stability. What concerns me is when interests are not aligned and everyone should defend the same. Therefore, what we should discuss—and it is a pity that the government has brought this project, but because of it, it has not left it here long enough for us to be able to discuss it—is a model of supervision in which the Banco de Portugal must be able to be scrutinized by the public authorities. We cannot accept that the Banco de Portugal has an audit of its intervention errors at BES and refuses to submit it to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u251	I shall conclude, Madam President. Having said that, I also want to say that the place of Banco de Portugal or the place of any governor should not serve purposes of conjunctural government remodeling, as they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u252	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u253	Exactly for defending the transparency, democracy and the submission of the Banco de Portugal to the public and democratic interest, there is also room to politically criticize the choices that are made, at every moment, to occupy this place. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u254	For a second intervention, Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u255	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this stage of the debate, I wanted to challenge the Left Block. We know that they do not agree with the current model, we know that there should be a period of interval—five years can be a lot and may be different—but approve the project and, in the specialty, we will eventually change this period. There is a mistake that it is a binding opinion with a two-thirds majority. The binding opinion is important — you agree with us — but two thirds is exaggerated. We will approve the project and, in the specialty, we will change that. We also agree with the essentials, with the incompatibilities and with the fact that the problems of conflicts are faced by the bankers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u256	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u257	We also agree that principles are not aligned with public interests. Our proposal therefore argues that there is an interval period, five years or less, for those who have held positions in the commercial bank, the government, the Ministry of Finance or the financial consultants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u258	Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u259	I want to transmit here the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u260	Sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u261	... there is an extended consensus, with the exception of the Socialist Party, so that we can approve this project and, in the specialty, we will make the necessary changes so that we can somehow change the appointment model. It's the challenge we throw at you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u262	To close this point, then, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was in fact made by many ironies, but I would like to say, with regard to the Socialist Party, which explained here why I did not accept any of the projects. I think the Socialist Party does not want anything to change, unless perhaps the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u264	« By Ventura », no! Not Ventura!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u265	By pulling the Minister of Finance, the PS does not want it to change strictly nothing. in this, I don't think there's any harmony with what the country wants. Mr. João Paulo Correia, say here that we cannot discuss this alone? Oh, my God! Mr President, sometimes I just wanted to have your can, with all honesty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u266	Lata is the CDS changing position! [[CDS-PP laughter.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u267	Mr President, it is very zealous, and rightly so, to ask us to put the mask in the back row, but if we can tell you that too. Members of the Socialist Party, who took it away, might not be worse. [[PS protests.]] I was saying you need to have a tin, and I'll explain why. So the CDS, in 2017 – we are in 2020 – brought here a number of legislative initiatives, all of them on supervision, which included this and other projects, for example in relation to leadership positions within the Banco de Portugal, proposing that they be selected by competition. Do you know what the fate of all these projects was? They were in the committee, at the will of the honourable Member, waiting for the Government to remember to present its proposal on this matter. In fact, the Government remembered to present its proposal on this matter, late and late, at a time when it could no longer be discussed. It is seen that Minister Mário Centeno, in terms of limiting the powers of the Banco de Portugal at that time, already thought that perhaps it was not a very good idea because he already knew what the future would bring him. Now, Mr. Deputies, over three years ago, comes here saying that we cannot discuss just this, because we also have to discuss other things? Mr President, the time is now, the question is on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u268	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u269	Of course, Mr. President. I'd appeal to all of you. Members, like what the NAP did. We can discuss some details, we can clear some edges, but if we agree on an essential principle and that has to do with the incompatibilities, then we do our best to get these projects to go to the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u270	We then move on to the seventh item on the agenda, then there will be a point without time and we will finally vote on it. This point therefore consists in the discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 256 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines the need for impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive way of tree species; 25 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei; 86 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — means the protection of migratory and winter bird species by prohibiting the mechanized harvest of olives during the night; 105 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — regulates the installation of olive and almonds in intensive and superintensive conditions; 146 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The third amendment to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April, determining the impediment of nocturnal mechanized olive harvest with a view to the preservation of avifauna ; and 156 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Protective belts and environmental impact assessment scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings. From this point, there is also the discussion of Resolution Projects Nos. 13 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops are not eligible for public support; 98 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the sustainability of olive trees in sebe ; 159 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Assessment study on the extensive areas of agricultural production in intensive and superintensive terms; and 274 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratory to the installation of olive and intensive and superintensive almonds. To present the draft law of the NAP, Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent decades, there has been a growing conversion of traditional agricultural crops into permanent crops, under intensive and superintensive monoculture on a large scale. This has occurred mainly in the Alentejo irrigation area, where the threat of water availability is real, as well as the risk of desertification. This agricultural production model seriously penalises small and medium-sized national farmers who are often forced to abandon agricultural activity because they cannot compete with other large-scale producers. This situation also contributes to the weakening of the local economy, the loss of revenue and jobs and the destruction of family production. In addition, many agricultural workers are immigrants who come looking for a better life and who are subject to indignant conditions that no one should be subject to. In fact, this is a situation with which the Government has comfortably compacted. This is due to inadequate agricultural policies which, consecutively, give in to the interests of the agri-food industry. The State, which has invested public money in that which is the largest irrigation work in this country, providing infrastructure and access to water, and which continues to subsidize these agricultural practices, has to intervene in promoting discussion of the agricultural model, regulation and effective monitoring of how the use of resources is being carried out. And before the supporters of intensive crops come to say that the processes are very modern and efficient, I am referring to the fact that it was the Olival Working Group that intensive olives use, on average, more than twice as many fertilizers and phytopharmaceuticals than the traditional ones, concluding that the correlation between the contamination of aquifers and the unmeasured expansion of intensive and superintensive crops is possible. The lack of regulation of the activity, coupled with the permissiveness of the current legislation, in relation to the application of phytopharmaceuticals, supports its free application in the vicinity of residential areas. In view of the existing legal framework, the NAP considers that tree intensive and superintensive crops above 50 ha, in addition to being subject to an environmental impact assessment, should also be subject to an environmental licence, as well as protection zones should be established as a measure to reduce the risk of contamination of populations. But in addition to all this, intensive agricultural systems make a strong contribution to reducing biodiversity. See the case of mechanized harvest, technology whose use in the nighttime is associated with bird mortality. Thus, even the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests (ICNF) has made public a discussion which concludes that olive growers should abstain from the night catch of olive oil due to the mortality of birds associated with it. However, no binding decision has been taken on this matter. In fact, night harvesting is a denial of the commitment to the conservation of migratory and winter bird species, as well as of the pursuit of the objectives of conservation of nature and environmental sustainability, both at national and European level. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to say that we are committed to sustainability and the preservation of species, that we must prove this. It is not enough to include environmental concerns in electoral programmes, as if a mere greenwashing campaign were being dealt with. We must then vote in accordance with these concerns. This is the challenge we present today, especially to PS and PSD, whose practice has shown that they are repeatedly positioned on the side of large pollutants. Now, if it is proven that the night harvest has significant impacts, then only the day harvest is allowed. If tree productions in intensive and superintensive regimes have significant impacts on the environment, then it regulates itself and controls itself. In short, we need a strategy that puts on proximity, transparency, sustainability, which is more humane, more focused on the real needs of people who produce and consume and less profit-oriented, to the detriment of everything else. It is essential to bet on an agricultural model based on principles of agroecology, where crops adapt to the actual conditions of the territory, where the installation techniques respect the environmental conditions, where water availability in the present and in the future is taken into account due to the impacts of climate change, where there is no support for unsustainable activities and ultimately respect the people who live or work in these territories. That is the way we should take and for which the NAP initiatives today, in debate, contribute. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u272	You have the floor, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal produces the best olives in the world, but the traditional olive tree, where this happens, has been replaced or is threatened by the intensive and superintensive olive tree,... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ... which aims to substantially increase the quantity of oil to be produced. It is spreading on a large scale, especially in the Alentejo region. It occurs that the impacts of intensive olives and, above all, of superintensive, with bars up to 2000 trees per hectare, are very significant at various levels. Of course, in terms of water expenditure. at a time when the country needs concrete measures to mitigate climate change, how is it possible to allow the model of agriculture that is being implemented based on exactly the opposite of what is necessary in terms of water use? There are also impacts on soil saturation, especially in the Alentejo, where the risks of extreme drought are demonstrated, resulting in the risk of desertification and soil impoverishment. Cultures are spreading that promote soil depletion and that, at the end of 20 25 years, leave them unfit for agriculture. And yet, by the mass use of pesticides, a very significant level of pollution is generated, with the risk of its effects being felt, in terms of pathological consequences, from a few years to a few years. The populations complain about the degradation of air quality and fear to be inhaling chemicals, in addition to contamination of soils and cool sheets that occur, from the use of these chemicals. What was mentioned here on the olive tree extends to other superintensive permanent crops, such as peanuts, which are expanding into a fairly wide area. The Greens have accompanied the problem of these permanent, superintensive cultures, challenging their brutal growth and listening carefully to the concerns of the people. In addition to the warning and the necessary complaints, the ENP makes proposals to mitigate the effects of this problem, but also to reverse it. Therefore, we present projects in the Assembly of the Republic which aim to implement, inter alia, the following solutions: end the CAP support — first and second pillars — to intensive and superintensive cultures; determine the obligation to respect a minimum distance of 300 m between the end of the superintensive agricultural culture and housing nuclei, in order to minimize the impacts of spraying, taking clear advantage of the enhancement of the best environmental standards and the guarantee of the well-being of citizens; and prohibit the mechanized catch of olive oil during the night, since Portuguese researchers estimate that 96 000 birds are affected, each year, due to the intensity of the lights and the suction systems used for the night harvest of olive oil. It is not enough to announce scientific studies on the impacts on avifauna or the strengthening of monitoring and awareness-raising actions. We need a more determined action. Decree-Law No 140 / 99, which regulates the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive, aims to maintain biodiversity and protect birds in the wild. But the sharp loss of biodiversity is a very serious global problem, which has not known assertive and effective policies to reverse the current logic of loss in a logic of restoration and preservation of biodiversity. The Greens believe that the expansion of the areas of these cultures is a gross mistake, which will be paid expensively in the present and in the near future, especially at a time when climate change, with all its adverse consequences, requires us policies responsible for adaptation, in which agricultural policies and practices have a very important role to play.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u274	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u275	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The unbridled growth in the production of olives and peanuts in intensive and superintensive terms is consuming local resources and occupying the territory in an abusive way, especially in the districts of Beja and Évora. Many localities are surrounded by consecutive kilometres of these olives and peanuts. These new agricultural holdings, many of foreign capitals, are almost exclusively and not democratically consuming local water resources and transforming the landscape. Yes, transforming an entire landscape, as well as consuming almost all of Alqueva's water, the largest public investment in irrigation that the country has ever made, are decisions that must be given to democracy. People need to be heard in the transformation and management of their territories, even more so when this transformation is so significant and consumer of public money. Has anyone asked who lives in the county of Ferreira do Alentejo, in Serpa or Beja, in Fortes, in Stremoz or in Veros agree with what is being done at the door of your house? There are tens, hundreds and even thousands of consecutive hectares where thousands of liters of pesticides are applied with high volume turbines, sometimes 5 and 10 m away from the dwellings, with the winds entering the windows and contaminating their homes. To aggravate the problem, the olive slurry was installed in the processing industries of a by-product of this activity. These companies are degradationing air quality and disrespecting the local population, which can no longer open the door or window of their home, and are under strong suspicion of causing respiratory diseases, which have become more frequent in the region. Intensive and superintensive olive producers are now dressed as environmentalists and claim that, after all, they practice modern olive growing. But, as you know, for almost 20 years night harvests have killed thousands of birds a year in the Alentejo and only last year have the first representatives of the olive growers heard appeal to stop the night harvest. The threat of supervision and fines by the ICNF was needed. Thus false environmental concerns were exposed. What modernity is this in which the applied labour force is migrant workers, fragile and blackmailed, in such a disposable way that, after the last harvest of olive oil, tens of them were abandoned in overcrowded and temporary dwellings, to whom only the solidarity of the local people had to eat? Without strict rules, without regulation, without supervision, it has been proven that social and environmental responsibility cannot be expected from many promoters of olive trees in intensive and superintensive terms. To respond to all these abuses, the Left Block today presents concrete proposals for voting: the prohibition of mechanized crops at night; the immediate suspension of new plantations and slopes of olive oil and peanuts under intensive and superintensive regime; compulsory licensing for all plantations; the obligation to assess environmental impact in areas over 50 ha, whether new or contiguous; the minimum distance of 300 m from residential areas; and the implementation of buffer zones mandatory for the protection of water lines, public roads and housing. The various parliamentary groups today have the opportunity to approve these proposals and to protect the territory, natural resources and the quality of life of the local populations. It is our understanding that we need to stop the expansion of agricultural models that damage the public interest and start a process of agroforestry and food ecological transition that responds to the challenge of climate change, promoting sovereignty in a democratic way, because we all have the right to decide how our food is produced. Whoever does this fight can count on the strength of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u276	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP took the initiative to present two projects, a draft resolution and a bill. The draft resolution recommends that the Government prepare an evaluation study on the extensive areas of agricultural production in intensive and superintensive terms...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u278	It's already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u279	... and the bill is about the safeguard bands and the environmental impact assessment regime of intensive and superintensive farms.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u280	They're late!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u281	These initiatives stem from the knowledge that the CFP has a marked set of changes that the agricultural system in Portugal has suffered, that we all have to recognise and of which we highlight: the change in the production regime, with the growth of the areas of irrigation; the cultural change, increasing the areas of continuous intensive and superintensive production of permanent crops, of which are examples of the olive, the almond, but also the vineyard; and the concentration of the property, with the increase of the average area of agricultural holdings, which also represents something more and more worrying, which is the financing of the land. All these changes, with a particular impact on the Alentejo region, concentrate more than 187,000 hectares of olive trees, almost one third of the total national olives, under intensive and superintensive regime. The reality, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're lying. contrary to what the rulers of PS, PSD and CDS say, these intensive and superintensive farms did not promote settlement, did not reduce unemployment, rather favored the proliferation of precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u282	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u283	... even with cases of true slavery, with the hiring of cheap labour, and did not substantially dynamize the local economies, which are not diversified and which are absolutely dependent on this intensive and superintensive monoculture. Unless urgent measures are taken to contain such crops, which tend to extend, Mr President. Members, the consequences on the land's regenerative and reproductive capacity, on fraternal sheets, on the health of populations and workers, on the biodiversity of habitats, on the survival of avifauna, on the archaeological heritage and on the water lines may not return in the future. That's why, sirs. Members, the CFP believes that it is urgent to take measures: measures to defend public health, measures to safeguard the environment, to defend and promote small and medium-sized agriculture and the rural world. The draft resolution presented here aims to promote the elaboration, more than just, in conjunction with the various state services, of a charter of planning and registration of holdings under intensive and superintensive regime. We need to identify areas of construction and intensive exploitation and those that should be restricted to intensive exploitation. It is important that an integrated assessment of the effects of this operation should be carried out. It is therefore also important to define the pernicious limits of these crops, in particular the restriction of the use of pesticides in houses, dwellings and water sheets and, above all, the restriction of the nighttime mechanical harvest. The draft law enshrines the requirement for the submission of all agricultural holdings in intensive and superintensive terms to the verification of safeguard bands. And, yes, Mrs. Members have already observed respect for these bands, and this is the example of the parish of Santa Vitória in the municipality of Beja, where farmers wanted to grow an olive tree under intensive arrangements to the doors of the houses of the people and thanks to the intervention force of the President of the Board of Freguesia, it was possible to establish a safeguard band that is referred to in the PDM ( Municipal Director Plan) of Beja.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u284	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u285	Therefore, we demand that, as a reference to the Beja PDM, safeguard ranges of 500 m up to the urban perimeters be created.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u286	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u287	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in conclusion, I must say that the CFP has been, is and will continue to be supportive of farmers, workers and populations and concerned about the problems of the environment and, always, the quality of life of the populations. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u288	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents a project for a study on the olive tree in sebe, referred to in this debate as « intensive and superintensive olive tree», which is almost an olive tree « sinner» of modern times for some parliamentary groups. I would like to begin by saying that some of the discussions on agriculture, and even on production, which we have seen fall short of what I would call 'the obscurantism of modern times'. Many of the discussions on agriculture have more to do with urban prejudices and opinions about life than with scientific facts. Therefore, the CDS presents this project so that discussions can be made on the basis of facts and not prejudices and, often, an alternative factuality, not even false. Still, I think some of the things that have been said cannot be made clear. First of all, I refer to the use of « intensive and superintensive » and « resource consumption ». I think it is the reason why it is not possible to be evaluating resource consumption without assessing, on the other hand, what is produced with these resources. If one culture consumes more resources and more water, but in the end it also produces much more than another, I would not say that there is a problem of sustainability,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u290	Oh, no? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u291	... because the consumption of production resources may even be lower. Therefore, it is appropriate to make this assessment before using those expressions. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Secondly, one thing that was said by the Left Block was that this production occupied the territory in an abusive way. In my ingenuity, I imagined that I still lived in a country where there was respect for private property. So, as far as abusive occupations are concerned, in fact, I have no lesson to teach the Left Block, which, from this point of view, and above all in the Alentejo, will know them much better than I do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u292	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u293	It seems to me that when you talk about occupation of the territory in an abusive way, you should understand that you are talking, after all. I do not see that there are proper abuses of the territory. Thirdly, I refer to respect for the local population. This is an argument which, in my view, weighs heavily. I'd like to tell the ladies and the ladies. Members who do not know more disrespect for the local population—and, in this matter, we often talk about low-density territories—than people want to work and live properly and not find where. That, yes, is a huge disrespect for the local population! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] When we talk in low-density territories, where there are often no private economic activities in fact so that people can work, earn their lives with dignity...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u294	With dignity? Oh, my God! That's an exploration!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u295	... and looking for a better life, it is no longer extraordinary that the parties that say to defend it, when it comes to practice, say to these people: "Agriculture? You can practice it, but only if it's subsistence and you live in misery! » That's it, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, no! That's disrespect! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u296	Why does subsistence agriculture have to be in misery? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u297	Mr Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, of these 10 proposals—except two, because the PSD has always defended the studies—we only follow the CDS, because it is with great concern that we see a series of myths, of inversities, of great fashion messages, but that do not correspond to reality. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to have confirmation of what they say, to have confirmation... [[Protests by PCP MP João Dias and Cecilia Meireles Member of the CDS-PP Member of the Cecilia Meireles.]] As I said, in order to have the confirmation of what they say so perennially, they do not oppose the studies. The PSD does not oppose, indeed, this is our matrix: truth and rigour. Moreover, it is with great concern that the remaining eight proposals do not go through a left-wing attempt to place farmers against farmers, rural world against rural world, territory against territory. This is the common denominator of all these proposals: olive production, starch production, other fruit production, all this is to finish. It is to end, because it yields and it seems that income-giving agriculture is prohibited.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u299	Sure! [[Protests by PEV MP Mariana Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u300	In fact, it is part of today's irony—because it is a day of great irony—that this hidden agenda appears on the day the INE (National Institute of Statistics) tells us that exports of consumer goods fell 40% in April. The moment could not be more appropriate. It is one of the few productive and profitable areas that we have in the Alentejo and you want to put an end to it too, with arguments that you cannot take. It's for you! We understand that the times of agrarian reform are much more sympathetic, at least in your beliefs, than those that are the desires of the population. But I do not see the Alentejo—because it is more for the Alentejo that we are addressing—they are going to shout for the new agrarian reform, for the subsistence agriculture that leads them to poverty, rather than a productive sector, which contributes positively to the commercial balance and makes oil, an essential product, accessible to all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us be intellectually serious: the traditional olive and almond do not oppose the olive and the production starch. They're not opposed! Everyone has their place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u301	There is no money for the traditional, the intensive, or the superintensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u302	PSD defends everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u303	He won't give it to each other!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u304	When there are conditions, I would like to thank you for allowing me to intervene. With regard to today's so propagated subsistence agriculture, do you want the irrigation and the entire area of Alqueva to be transformed into the garden of Lisbon, the port and the large metropolises? [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Only if it is, because, with your agenda for agriculture, will we have the big cities and the big metropoliss again to know hunger, because, of the non-production and of your small farm farming, it will only come hungry! This is what they are defending today: subsistence, farm farming, which causes Portugal to again have very serious problems to feed the Portuguese and the world. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u305	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u306	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they assume that they are against agriculture and food for the people, for all Portuguese, as a whole, what the PSD defends. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u307	That is what is called 'blind node'!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u308	I now give the floor to Mr Norberto Patinho of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The regadio introduced a clear paradigm change in Alentejan agriculture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u310	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u311	... with more technology, greater professionalization, product diversification, interaction with the agri-food industry sector and production for external markets. In the last 20 years, we have seen a real revolution in agriculture in Alentejo: from importing country, Portugal has become one of the world's largest olive producers and exports have grown very markedly, contributing very positively to the balance of the national agri-food complex. The quality of oil — a product which is recognised as good for health — is of excellence, and more than 95 % of production is of virgin and extra virgin quality. Contrary to what is intended to be believed, it is proven that the olive is among the less demanding irrigation crops in terms of water consumption. The olive tree is an important amount of carbon dioxide and the sequestration increases considerably in the olives of higher density, reaching, in the olives installed in the area watered by Alqueva, values equivalent to carbon emissions by the population of Évora and Beja. The olive is of the less demanding crops in the application of phytofarms and those that are used, in compliance with the strict European regulation, have low danger. A few days ago Eurostat presented data indicating a 43 % reduction in the use of fitofarms in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u312	They're scientific studies! It's scientific!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u313	... between 2011 and 2018, confirming that we are the state with the greatest reduction in sales and use of these products. These are official studies, in which it is performed the comparison of the environmental effects of modern olives... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] We're talking about data, not what we know. We live there! These are official studies, in which it is performed the comparison of the environmental effects of modern olive trees, with the main...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u314	Who's doing the studies? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u315	Let me hear you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u316	These are done by the State, Mr. These are made by the state! Mr President, it seems to me that you do not want to hear. These studies comparing the environmental effects of modern olives with the main crops of Alentejo — such as wine, wheat, meadows, pastures, rice, tomato and maize — conclude that modern olives do not promote more environmental pressures than other streams, with decisive expression in Alentejo. We are supportive of the populations affected by the problems caused by the poor labor of olive slurry treatment units, which urgently resolve, but we cannot confuse this with the exploitation of olives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u317	What about the night catch?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u318	The almost all of the bills of law and resolution that are currently under discussion have in common a negative view about intensive cultures that develop in the area watered by Alqueva's enterprise and, in particular, on the olive tree. What's clear in the expositions of motives...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u319	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u320	Excuse me, Mr President, but just give me 2 or 3 seconds of tolerance. As I said, what is clear in the explanatory statements is the lack of a technical basis of support, with in common statements on the abuse of fertilizers and pesticides, the amount of water used and negative aspects of biodiversity. Admitting that some planning and control measures may be taken, we must wait for the conclusions of the ongoing studies to act in accordance with and in accordance with the technical recommendations resulting from them. The olive is one of our most valuables and we must not diabolize it. of the 3 million hectares constituting the Alentejo region, the area occupied by olives of irrigation represents less than 2 % of the total.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u321	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u322	Mr President, the Alentejos wisely express their feelings, will and ambitions through the song.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u323	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u324	Thus do the Alentejos sing: « It is so great the Alentejo, / so much abandoned land! .../should be cultivated. » This is the way we will continue to travel. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u325	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although this last intervention of the Alentejo song has been exciting, I will have some restraint, do not go to the Left Block saying that the party is full of evangelicals and farmers in the Alentejo and that, therefore, I cannot talk about this. I promise to be more careful! Still, what is at stake here today are the models of agriculture we want. The olive and mechanized culture are only the pretext of those who really want to return to agriculture for 20 or 30 years. These are the times of dream of them, such a struggle that the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course) brought Portugal and that they now want to reintroduce. They want an agriculture that is not modern, that is not exported, that is not on its own initiative, on the pretext of environmental needs, which must be seen, and impacts on species, which must be analysed. They want, quite differently, to return and bring our agriculture and many regions of our country to a more than programmed misery. They always liked it, because that is how they have them in their hands, all of them, and who make the great struggle, which spreads through the territories. Now, you see that you are losing these territories—for the Arrival, too—... [[That's a laugh from BE Mésos Ferreira.]] ...and they get sad and sad about it. But agriculture is too important for us to play electoral games with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u327	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u328	She agreed that some of these projects were put on a television screen today because they say...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u329	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u330	I will finish, Mr. President. Some of these projects say they want to prohibit public support for some kind of production, they want to regulate the installation of olives and peanuts — such as the Left Block — and they urge the Government to put an end to public support for intensive crops.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u331	Open the proposal! That's a ball! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u332	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u333	All farmers, all producers should see this tonight to know what the PAN, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens want for their future. That's what they should do!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u334	He doesn't command enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u335	I'm not in charge, but I'm in charge!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u336	You have the floor, for an intervention, thus closing this item on the agenda, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we can draw several conclusions from today's discussion. One of them, of course, is that, in fact, PS and PSD have very beautiful environmental discourses, but when talking about agriculture, they forget about the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u338	How? Oh, my God! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u339	They always end up voting on the interests of those who destroy the soil, who end up with water resources and exploit the workers, especially the Alentejo Members, who should defend their populations rather than defend the interests of the large corporations. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo and PAN André Silva's counterprotests.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr Norberto Patinho, we are not talking about prejudice, are facts. The working group set up in 2008, precisely by the Socialist Government, concluded that in 77 % of intensive olives there is no control of the soil water content and that 58 % do not record the volume of water used due to the lack of even measuring equipment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u340	That page he didn't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u341	...which reveals that the use of water is not done consciously and rationally. This fact is reinforced by the statements by the head of the water resources department of APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency ), which states that in 2018 more than 4000 water catchment holes were opened as a result of the drought and increasing intensification of agriculture. Well, if they're not equipped with monitoring systems, then I'd like to know how you guys are. Members can ensure that there is an efficient use of water.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u342	That page they haven't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u343	According to the same working group, it is also mentioned that intensive plantations of a single species, even though native, imply a decrease in biodiversity, a decrease in resilience of crops to infestations and a lower ability to adapt to climate change, because they are dependent on irrigation and applied pesticides. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth setting up working groups if we only use the conclusions if they are beneficial to what we want to defend. Finally, the demand for greater profitability in agricultural systems cannot jeopardise the natural systems and the health of populations and ultimately turn against their own long-term sustainability. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u344	Mrs. Members of the eighth point of our agenda are, without time allocated for discussion, Bill No. 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Passos » in the municipality of Fafe, for « Paços. Before we proceed to the vote, Secretary Nelson Peralta will make some announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u345	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 445 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Programme for the identification, control and eradication of invasive exotic species, opportunistic species and other pests in the areas of the National Protected Areas Network, which falls to 11. the Commission, Draft Law No 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the basis for climate policy and action, which falls to 11. the Commission, and Draft Resolution No 510 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Youth associations in COVID-19 times, which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u346	Let us, then, start the voting period. We begin with the Vote Project No 252 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ), regretting the death of Luís Pedro Pimentel. Before passing the floor to Mr. Luís Leite Ramos, who will make his reading, the Bureau wishes to associate itself entirely with the draft vote presented by the PSD and to welcome, in a fraternal and solidarity form, the families who are in the gallery. You have the floor, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u347	Mr President, I would just like to correct the following: this draft vote is not just the PSD, it is subscribed by several Members of various parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u348	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. The vote script is that it was incomplete.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u349	Mr President, the draft vote is as follows: « Luís Pedro Machado Sampaio de Sousa Pimentel was born in Castedo do Douro, in the municipality of Alijó, Vila Real, on April 16, 1970 and died on June 6, 2020, at 50 years. He devoted his life to politics. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in the XIII, XII, XI and VIII legislatures. He was a member of the Alijó Municipal Assembly and the Intermunicipal Assembly of the CIM Douro. He gave the best of himself to the PSD and public policy. From an active member in the JSD to the Under-Secretary-General of the PSD, he has printed simplicity to the functions and actions of proximity to which the positions require. He collaborated as deputy to the 15th Constitutional Government, he was Vice-President of the District Political Committee of Vila Real's PSD, President of the Political Committee of the Section of the PSD of Alijó and Vice-President of the PSD, which had so far been in office. In the Assembly of the Republic, he incorporated the National Defence and Agriculture and Sea Committees and the Permanent Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO ( APNATO ), where he concentrated his parliamentary work. However, as a member elected by Vila Real, he maintained a proactive approach on regional issues, from health to transport, raising the debate with his cordiality and tolerance. As a Member of Agriculture, as he was sometimes known, he was always attentive to the problems of the rural world, the challenges of agricultural producers, especially those of the vineyards in the Douro region, from which he was natural. He sought to give voice to those who did not have, carefully spreading the demands of farmers, whose nobility of activity allows the survival of man. Luís Pedro also had this nobility as a winegrower. His early, sudden, and unexpected departure leaves those who have shared their lives an immeasurable longing. It reveals common feelings of sadness and dismay, coldly demonstrating the certainty of our mortality and questioning the future. Luis Pedro Pimentel trusted in the future. He gave himself up with his unmistakable and genuine smile, revealing his immense faith. That's part of your legacy. one of his last public interventions, in the face of the uncertainty of the current pandemic, demonstrated an unshakable hope, supported by his deep spirituality. The members of the Assembly of the Republic lend to the family their most expressed regret and honour to former Member Luís Pedro Pimentel for his work and dedication to the region of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and Portugal. S. Bento Palace, 9 June 2020. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u350	We will vote for the Vote Project No 252 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PSD and subscribed by the PAR and by members of the PS, the CDS-PP, the BE, the IL, the CH, and the PEV. ) — I regret the death of Luís Pedro Pimentel. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 481 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government review the single remuneration table with a view to ensuring proportionality levels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 489 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the urgent negotiation of the single remuneration table of the Public Administration with a view to ensuring its proportionality. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u351	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u352	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u353	Mr President, if I may, I would like to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote by the Socialist Party in relation to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 481 and 489 / XIV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u354	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We will generally vote for Bill No. 402 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amends Law No 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions for access and exercise of the exercise of the performance of the performance interpreter activity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] This initiative is down to 10. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 412 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By regulation of the Portuguese Gestal Language Interpreter profession. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This initiative is down to 10. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 422 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Measures to achieve the rights of deaf persons and to enhance the Portuguese-language interpreter profession. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] This initiative is down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 400 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Provide the consumer with information on the purchase price to the producer or fisher of foodstuffs. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the NAP and the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u355	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u356	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u357	Mr President, to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u358	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 344 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated measures to respond to the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on the wine sector. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the IL.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 374 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Immediate support measures for small and medium-sized agricultural holdings which compensate farmers for the serious damage caused by the outbreak of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP, CH and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sectors ( green electricity ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS, PAN and IL.]] This initiative is down to 7. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 382 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Let us now vote on a request submitted by the CFP for a discharge to the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 412 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Measures to promote the disposal of fish from artisanal and coastal fisheries and to create a simplified public system for the acquisition, distribution and exploitation of low-value fish in lot. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 422 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — sets out the obligation to inform consumers of the environmental costs of food production. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from CH.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 459 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for the formulation of fair prices to the producer and to the consumer. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the NAP and the CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 477 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — By drawing up and fixing a minimum price to be paid to the producer and by combating unfair practices in commercial relations between large distribution and food suppliers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u359	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u360	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u361	Mr President, to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u362	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr. João Paulo Correia, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u363	Mr President, to inform you that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on the last nine initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u364	Mr. Deputies, it is also registered. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Granting of honours from the National Pantheon to Aristides of Sousa Mendes. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u365	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u366	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u367	Mr President, in order to announce that the arrival will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u368	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 432 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government apply the reduced VAT rate to nutrients or nutrients ( vitamins and minerals) that strengthen the human immune system. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No 509 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 23 / 2020 of 22 May, which lays down the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health[ on Parliamentary Assessment No 14 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u369	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u370	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u371	Mr President, to inform us that we will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u372	Mr. Deputies, you are duly registered. The following request in the vote script was withdrawn, so we proceed to the general vote of Bill No 393 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures extraordinary social protection support for workers without access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 367 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance applicable to workers on behalf of others, self-employed and informal workers excluded from other support. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u373	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u374	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u375	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote and the vote on the previous bill on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Maria Begonha, Miguel Costa Matos, Joana Sá Pereira, Olavo Câmara, Filipe Pacheco and Tiago Estêvão Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u376	It is duly registered, Mr. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote of Bill No 415 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Reduction to half of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit, termination allowance and termination allowance ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020 of 7 May ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. With regard to the next vote of Bill No 427 / XIV / 1. a — Creates an exceptional and temporary scheme for the suspension of the contract of employment for a non-pocket payment of the remuneration, the CFP submitted a request for a discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote, for 30 days. Let's vote on the request. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The application was approved, therefore, without effect the vote of the respective bill, which goes down to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 428 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improvement of conditions of access to social unemployment benefit. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] The diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 394 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP.]] The diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 423 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter the functioning of the bodies of Banco de Portugal ( eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP and MP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, PAN and IL, and abstentions against the ENP and CH.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 433 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Scheme for the appointment and removal of members of the board of directors of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( second amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No 256 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the need for impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive manner of tree species. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and IL abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 25 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 86 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa for the protection of migratory and winter bird species through the prohibition of the mechanized harvest of olives during the night. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 105 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Regulates the installation of olive and almond in intensive and superintensive conditions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 146 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The third amendment is made to the Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April, determining the impediment of the nocturnal mechanized harvest of olive oil with a view to preserving the avifauna. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 156 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Protective belts and environmental impact assessment scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we now proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 13 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops do not benefit from public support. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 98 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the sustainability of olive trees in sebe. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and abstentions against BE, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the general vote on draft resolution No 159 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Evaluation study on the extensive areas of agricultural production in intensive and superintensive terms. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote on draft resolution No 274 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratory to the installation of olive and intensive and superintensive almonds. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u377	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u378	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u379	Mr President, it is to indicate that I will present a statement of vote on these votes that we have just done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u380	That's how it's going to be, it's recorded. We continue with the vote of Bill No 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Passos » in the municipality of Fafe, for « Paços.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u381	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u382	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u383	Mr President, I believe that we can proceed together with the three votes of this bill, i.e. generality, speciality and comprehensive final vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u384	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is anyone opposed to us voting together for the three votes? [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Passos » in the municipality of Fafe, for « Paços. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we will vote on draft resolution No. 301 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the reactivation of the Alfeite Arsenal Training School. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u385	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u386	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u387	Mr President, it is to inform that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u388	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u389	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u390	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u391	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u392	It is duly registered, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u393	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u394	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u395	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u396	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we still have some announcements to make to the House, which Mr. Secretary of Bureau Nelson Peralta will do the favor of presenting. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I am going to announce the parliamentarians who were present by video conference at today's session: Members of the PS João Azevedo de Castro and Lara Martinho and PSD António Ventura, elected by the Autonomous Region of the Azores ; Members of PS Carlos Pereira and Marta Freitas and PSD Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-09.u398	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the plenary will meet again on 17 Wednesday at 3 p.m. with the debate of the Bill No 33 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Supplementary Budget for 2020, to which the debate will follow, with the participation of the Prime Minister, the preparatory session of the European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the construction process of the European Union, and the debate with the participation of the Government, concerning the various instruments of economic governance of the European Union which form part of the European Semester, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( d ). that of Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May, concerning the monitoring, assessment and delivery by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of construction of the European Union. So we'll meet again next Wednesday. Even I wish everyone and everyone a good weekend and good health. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 32 minutes.]]
