ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u1	I declare open the Solemn Commemorative Session of the XLVI Anniversary of 25 April. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mr. President of the Republic, His Excellency Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. General Ramalho Eanes, Ms. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mr. Minister of National Defence, Mr. President of the City Council of Lisbon, Mrs. Vice-Presidents of the Assembly of the Republic and Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, Mr. Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces, Ms. Ombudsman, Mrs. State Councillors, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Chiefs of the Army, Army and Air Force Staff, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Presidents of the Economic and Social Council and the ANAFRE Governing Council, Mr. Commander-General of the Republican National Guard, Mr. National Director of the Public Security Police, Mr. Secretary-General of the CGTP-IN, Mr. Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Eminence, Illustre Representative of the Association 25 April, Mrs. Guests, Portuguese and Portuguese: Portugal and the Portuguese have been confronted in recent weeks with the consequences of a serious international pandemic, which has led to serious social, economic and financial implications. The loss of hundreds of human lives is undoubtedly the most violent expression of the pandemic, because irreversible. And it would be enough if you were to lose only one so that our regret would be heard and our solidarity would come to those who see a loved one disappear. in this difficult time we live, our thoughts are with all those who have lost family and friends. With all those who are hospitalized, fighting for their survival against this terrible virus. With all those who are unable to contact their closest, confined to their homes or to institutions a little across the country, to whom we try to mitigate the void of deprivation of the affections of proximity. With all those who, unable to celebrate the Day of Freedom on the street, can accompany us in this tribute on 25 April. For all of them, a word of solidarity, of courage, of hope. But in particular, for all those who have left us, I ask us to buy a minute of silence. [[It was kept, standing, one minute silence.]] Excellences, My Ladies and gentlemen: The crisis that we are going through — that Europe and the world are going through — and that began to be a public health crisis today reaches a dimension that is only parallel if we go back a long time. From the very first moment, Portugal and the Portuguese knew how to mobilize in a responsible, committed, disciplined, patient and serene way, even anticipating the recommendations of the health authorities and scrupulously fulfilling their guidelines, giving evidence of their tenacity, ability to resist and greater will to overcome this enormous trial. by doing so, not without sacrifice, they are making a precious contribution to attenuating the faster transmission of the new coronavirus and thus moderate some of the most harmful effects of the pandemic. Since last March 18th, Portugal and the Portuguese have faced these difficult circumstances — which, moreover, we share with many countries and citizens around the world — in a state of emergency. These circumstances show greater severity in the United States and Europe, especially in Spain and Italy, brothers to whom we address a friendly and supportive word. This is the first state of emergency in our lives and, hopefully, the last one. We face him with anxiety, with fear, with fear, because, as Mário Dionisio reminds us, « fear is man's own. Courage is no more than knowing how to cross it and go with it against the forces that consume it still and always afraid to show it." But even in a state of emergency, in freedom. Even in a state of emergency, we did not see the democracy that we are suspended, the democracy that April brought us this unforgettable morning, that today, with a sense of duty and responsibility, we recall and celebrate, back 46 years. Even in a state of emergency, the Assembly of the Republic has not ceased to function, has not closed its doors. As a sovereign body, and in the use of constitutional powers, the Assembly of the Republic has kept its powers intact, decisive for the response to this crisis. It was in the use of its legislative powers that the Assembly of the Republic approved, for example, measures on indebtedness of local authorities within the framework of the pandemic or the exceptional regime on late payment of income and on the impossibility of suspension of essential services such as water, electricity, natural gas or electronic communications. It was in the use of the supervisory power that Parliament maintained constant monitoring of the evolution of the situation and monitoring of the action of the Government and the Administration, in particular the set of extraordinary measures and urgent response to the crisis that Portugal and the Portuguese are going through. It was the Assembly of the Republic that authorized the President of the Republic to declare the state of emergency and could renew it twice. Yesterday, as today, honoring the fundamental role of Parliament, honoring whom we represent, honoring this common ground which is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic out of 1976, honoring the democracy that we are and all who have made it possible, honoring today 45. the anniversary of the first truly free elections in Portugal. To celebrate — and not to celebrate — the founding moment of our regime in the House of Democracy is also to show, in the present and in the future, that, regardless of the circumstances, even the most extraordinary and serious, even in an emergency state, such as what we live, democracy and Parliament say 'present', to ensure that crises will never serve as a pretext for launching the seeds of any antidemocratic alternative. The Assembly of the Republic, with its Members, has not left the democratic stage and, as it has done in recent weeks, respecting all the recommendations on health and safety, giving the example of prevention and work, has once again opened its doors to the country. And if you didn't close the doors in the past, it wouldn't make sense that you didn't open them today, April 25, 2020, 46 years after April, which gave us freedom. to the Captains of April, here represented by the Association 25 April, thank you very much! [[PSP, BE, PCP, PAN, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Members.]] Since 3 June 1976 the Assembly of the Republic has been in full operation. Today was no exception. Today is no exception. Freedom is not just going through here: freedom is here and now. Ladies and gentlemen: To meet today the Assembly of the Republic, especially with the very honorable presence of Mr. President of the Republic, to whom I thank in institutional and personal terms, and of high entities of the Portuguese State, also has another purpose, to pay tribute to all those who have allowed the country not to stop, that the economy does not collapse, that unemployment does not disappear. From all professionals in the most diverse sectors — from agriculture to livestock, from forestry to fisheries, from extractive industries to processing industries, from banking to insurance, from collecting waste to urban cleaning, from scams to super and hypermarket operators, from pharmacies to public works and civil construction, from transport of goods to public transport, from restoration to mail and telecommunications, from firefighters to teachers, from press and social communication in general to various public services — millions are those who have said and say 'present' so that other Portuguese can collect and protect themselves. There are millions who, despite circumstances and at personal cost, are exposed, allowing the country not to stop. It is for the people, and for him, that Parliament remains in operation. With their work, they make an inexhaustible contribution to mitigating the effects of this pandemic, immediately and in time, without which, without doubt, we would not be in a position to overcome this crisis. As Luis Sepúlveda told us, a friend of Portugal who saw us disappear in the last days due to the COVID-19, « I admire those who have made the verb ‘resistance ’ meat, sweat, blood, and demonstrated without fear that it is possible to live, but to live standing, even in the worst moments». But there is, however, a special word that I must convey on behalf of Parliament and the Portuguese and Portuguese who we represent here. to health professionals in all areas, for their dedication, for their competence, for their professionalism and for their enormous effort that demonstrate, far beyond the strict duty, avoiding, in so many situations, contact with family members for unlimited delivery to others and to the public cause. [[General applause.]] the military of the three branches of the Armed Forces and the security forces, for the qualities and virtues demonstrated in the execution of the tasks and missions assigned to them at this particularly demanding time, in which they reveal qualities of bravery, courage and great dedication to the service of public security, Portugal and Portuguese. [[General applause.]] Everyone, thank you very much. These are also the gains of April: civic culture, adult form like Portugal and Portuguese are responding to the emergency we are going through. And one of the greatest achievements of democratic Portugal, the National Health Service, and its founder, António Arnaut, who understood the equality of opportunities as an essential condition for the exercise of freedom, which we celebrate today. [[P.S., BE, CH and PSD Members applauded.]] The social and democratic state that we are today had in it a visionary promoter and a demanding defender, and it owes it a sense of tribute at the time when the National Health Service and its professionals are tested to the limit by this terrible virus, which radically changed our life in society. Ladies and gentlemen: Today's Portugal owes a lot to everyone, against all expectations, against many who never thought such a power could happen, were able to overcome blockades and find solutions capable of recovering the country from the deep crisis—even identity and values—in which it was, after such a difficult and complex period as the period of financial assistance, with profound impacts on poverty and social exclusion. Of one thing I am right: Portugal and the Portuguese are vaccinated against austerity. Whether the vaccine has 100% efficacy remains to be known! Open... Although the pandemic we are facing has lost part of what we have gained with so much effort and sacrifice, I must remind you that it was in Parliament, which has also assumed a growing centrality in the functioning of our political system, and in permanent consultation, that it was possible to implement a programme for the recovery of income and the change of economic policy, without jeopardising Portugal's international commitments. At a time when the Portuguese wait for their representatives to feel responsibility, I am sure that all the political representatives, because they all count, because they are all important, will make their contribution to a new present, to a better future. All have been determined in the fight against this pandemic and its effects. the fight against the pandemic, which is still far from being overcome, is now another challenge that is so difficult or more difficult: that of combating inequalities, economic development, prosperity. With different projects, of course, but respecting the rules for the functioning of the democratic system. That is the nature of our regime. The worst thing that could happen to our democracy would be to see the work of scrutiny of parliamentary oppositions being exercised by factual or inorganic powers, whose attempts are unclear, often contradictory to each other and difficultly confined to the issues in dispute and of which no political alternative and no democratic benefit will ever come. Worse is democracy when elections are made on the basis of slander, lies, falsehoods, misinformation campaigns that aim only to negate institutions, their representatives and ultimately democracy. This is not the scrutiny of democracy, that is the democracy to be attacked. Both misinformation and populist propaganda take advantage of the gap between parties and society, always in order to discredit the fundamental values of the democratic rule of law, undermine confidence in institutions and, ultimately, destroy democracy. The answer is to make democracy more inclusive, more representative, a democracy of trust capable of generating confidence. The answer is to make our institutions stronger, more solid, more able to respond to the aspirations of the people and to remove their fears. Not only in Portugal but also in the European Union, it has been our bet, contributing to ensure that it does not lose all credibility and reason to be. Because, we have no doubt, if there is no European solidarity in the most serious period that the Member States have been going through since the end of World War II, the European project will no longer make sense. True to the founding principles of this common project of peace, development and democracy, Portugal must do everything — and it has done, through the government and not only — so that, in this black period, Europe of sharing and solidarity is not lost. As Pope Francis said a few days ago, « today the European Union faces a historic challenge, on which it will depend not only its future but that of the whole world ». Our political intervention will continue to be guided by the defense of all Portuguese and, in particular, of all those who have been affected by this pandemic. It is for them that we must unite, because, in view of the size of the challenge — and as in the face of migration crises or climate change — we will only win this pandemic if we remain united. It's a fight that doesn't depend on us alone. It's a fight that depends on everyone. We can't give up, there's no time to waste. It is for those who dream of a better future, for themselves and for their own, that today, with hope and determination, in democracy and freedom, we say 'present'. Long live April 25th! April 25th always! Long live Democracy! Long live Freedom! Long live Portugal! [[PPS, BE, PCP, ENP, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD Members.]] Let us start the speeches of the only Members of the Party and representatives of the parliamentary groups. In representation of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u2	H.E. Mr. President of the Republic, H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, H.E. Mr. Prime Minister, H.E. Mr. Members: Today, on April 25, the youngest of my four children is 18 years old and so I have two good reasons to celebrate. For him, it is a special anniversary, the entry into adulthood, and I have decided to write him a letter that ultimately goes to all of his generation. With your permission, I would like to read this letter to you: « My dear Miguel : Today is your birthday. Congratulations! You've grown up so much these 18 years. You've learned to think from your own head and assume it when you suck. I'm proud of that. I don't write you to give advice, but to tell you things that I might have liked being told when I was your age. I want to start with freedom, always freedom. You were born on April 25, a happy coincidence to remind yourself that you must never take liberty as guaranteed. Many had to fight so you could enjoy it today. And you must be prepared to do the same, if one day, under any pretext, they want to deprive you of your freedom, even if it's just a little bit, even if it's just a little bit. You and your generation. You soon realized that your freedom ends when others start. More: You've been understanding that you won't feel free while there's no one else. So never stop looking around, interested in and caring for others, fighting at their side or in front of them, if it has to be. You and your generation. You soon realized that your freedom ends when others begin, and thanks to April 25 and November 25 you were born in a democratic and free country. But the freedom that really matters is not that of countries, it is that of people. And there is no real freedom until there is equal opportunity and possibility of choice. It is that although you and the young people of your generation were born in a free country, they were not born in a prosperous country. I feel a part of the responsibility for this. My generation and I do not leave you and your generation a country that meets your ambitions. The country we left you almost didn't grow up since you were born, 18 years ago. The country we left you was overcome by countries that were poorer than we were 18 years ago. Portugal we leave you today is less productive in relative terms than it was when you were born. So you and your generation will have fewer opportunities than I had, less choices than I had, less freedoms than I had. The part I'm touched by, I'm sorry. But don't despair. It is possible to change: fighting, working, creating. I trust that the Portuguese are too capable, if they let them choose their path in life, if they let them choose, for example, their school or their doctor, if they do not depend on the state for everything and for nothing, if bureaucracy does not delay or prevent them. If we change this, the Portuguese will be as good as the best and freer than ever. If we resist conformism and false unanimity, if we do not let the state confuse itself with a party, if the criticism and difference are seen as the force that effectively are, the Portuguese, I repeat, will be as good as the best and freer than ever. But none of this will fall from heaven. We have, each of us, the younger and the older ones, to do our part. I entered political life, in the Liberal Initiative, to defend liberalism, which in Portugal had no voice. You, Miguel, will choose your own way of fighting. But whatever she is, my son, do it with the courage you have already demonstrated. Fight for you, fight for young people like you, for those who will be like you, for those who have been like you and also for those who don't think like you. Never stop improving the world around you, in your own way, with the help of yours or alone, if it has to be. This is what was done on April 25th: to free you from a dictatorship, yes, but above all, to free you from everything and all those who do not let your generation seek what they freely desire. A kiss from your father, who wishes you, this April 25, a day — and a life — free and very happy. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD, PAN and CH applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u3	Mr André Ventura has the floor on behalf of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u4	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, High officials of the State, General Ramalho Eanes, His Eminence Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon : We marked the end of a dictatorship on an important April morning. And today, 46 years later, we are still confined, not because of the withdrawal of our freedoms, but because of a pandemic that has taken away most of our freedom. We shouldn't be here today. And we shouldn't be here today because the Portuguese couldn't be around those who lost, those who celebrated and those who wanted to embrace today. So today is the day to say that, however important it is, we should not be here and I risk saying it, a large majority of the Portuguese didn't want us to be here. If April is something, it must be the unity of fighting as never against an enemy that we do not know and that we will certainly win. But what are the keys of April, Grândola, Vila Morena sung at the window or and after the Goodbye to pass on the radio if we continue to be one of the countries with the highest rates of corruption of the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development), if we unfortunately continue to release bandits and mistreat our security forces and our magistrates, if we continue to treat ill health, education, the professionals who are in the front line and who today end up applauding? Oh, my God! What good is it for us to have nails on our chest if we all treat them badly and, I would say, are we one of the worst in Europe? Oh, my God! What is it worth for April, if we do not have a separation of powers, if we have an increasing confusion between state and party and if this compromises our freedom in the long run? Oh, my God! They come to the most difficult times of all time. And it is time to ask what April means today. How can we talk about April if we pay vital subsidies to politicians who stole the state? Oh, my God! How can we talk about April if we pay those who stole us in recent years? Oh, my God! How can we speak of April when there are endless judgments, which do not end? Oh, my God! And the Portuguese at home ask themselves: “When will we get to a good port? “ Populism! ” """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" It's the same conversation since we put the nail to the chest, it's the same conversation 46 years ago, and the Portuguese are starting to get tired. What's it worth for us to nail if we have more and more taxes, many of them to pay—maybe today it's not right to say it—to many minorities who don't deserve it and to whom we pay? Oh, my God! The April fellows must also be mentioned today, without disrespect, because they are, in fact, one of the main reasons why we pay so many taxes. Today we celebrate the end of a dictatorship and the beginning of a democratic regime, but — why not say so? - we need another one. We need another one! And, with the enormous respect we have for those who fought that morning to make a different regime, today we also need a new morning to bring us a new regime. For a simple reason: this one is no longer useful! Francisco Sá Carneiro said that on that day, the military carried out a heroic act of liberation of themselves, but with him, they wanted to release Portugal as a whole. Why not assume today that perhaps the military, that morning, have succeeded in freeing themselves, but have failed to free Portugal as a whole, because that is still going to be our mission to achieve? It may not be correct, it may not be politically acceptable, it may not be morally viable, but today is the time when there is a political force in this House that says: « April 25 we will not forget, but we want another, we want another democracy and we want another Republic. We want four. the Portuguese Republic! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u5	In representation of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u6	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. Members, Valuable Captains of April, Ladies and gentlemen. Guests: We are here today to speak of April, because today is the day to speak of April. It is day to evoke this morning, everything that brought us, everything that sowed us and everything that allowed us to dream. And even in times like the ones we live, here we are. Here we are, because today is also the day of not letting go of the importance that freedom and democracy represent for us, as a people and as a country. Here we are, as we have been to decide measures to combat the crisis. Here we are, as we have been to discuss the state of emergency and its extensions. Here we are, as we are going to be in the next few weeks to discuss new measures to combat this collective threat that we are facing. And here we are, scrupulously respecting all public health rules and without withdrawing any elevation to what is intended to be noted today in the Assembly of the Republic. Here we are to talk about the Revolution of Claws. in the morning that has sown hope, that has returned dignity to a watched, persecuted and silent people, who has called for freedom and democracy for our collective destiny and that has brought us peace and taught us to value the concerns of social justice, the fight against poverty and the need to preserve environmental resources. Back, they remained the dictatorship, the PIDE (International Police and State Defense), censorship, persecution, torture and colonial war. Back, they remained a black and white country and a people bound by grayism of ideas with mofo lock; a country where infant mortality prevailed and illiteracy reigned, because health and education were rich luxury. Back, they became a sad people and a dark country. This is why and much more important to say: « Fascism never again! Do not keep on seeking. ” But to speak of the Revolution of Claws is to speak of the courage of the Captains of April, who, in the morning, left the barracks to shake that "present" and archiving the past, to give us another future and another way. It is to speak of the resistance and courage of so many men and women who fought for a country where the wealth produced was distributed by all and natural resources by all sustainably shared. I can therefore not fail to welcome on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, the April Captains and the men and women who fought for a free country. Some have made history, not only because they were able to give body to the feeling of an entire people, but also for everything that April brought us. And I brought a lot! From then on, the National Health Service (SNS ), which represented a huge step in terms of civilization, but also a door that opened to Portuguese people in access to health care. With the SNS, we managed to improve health indicators in Portugal, improve the health and quality of life of Portuguese. It was the SNS that allowed the infant mortality rate to shift to values below the European average. Since its creation, the structure of the SNS has been maintained, although it has been strongly weakened by the Governments of the Cavaco Silva PSD and the Basics Act of 1993, which has opened the health market to the private, and has been further weakened by the cuts of the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas and by a subfinanced decades of governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS. Still, there we have it as a shield for this pandemic to play an absolutely decisive and irreplaceable role in this fight. And without much effort, we can make an idea of how it would be to deal with the new coronavirus if we didn't have our SNS. That is why it is never too important to stress the importance of the National Health Service and its professionals and to alert them to the need for their strengthening and valorization of men and women who courageously continue in the front line of this fight and who deserve all our recognition. in this circumstance, I would also like to address, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, the most sympathetic condolences to the families of the victims who did not resist the new coronavirus and a word to all the people who continue to work to ensure that, despite everything, the essential is not lacking and the country does not stop at all. It is fair also to note how the Portuguese are dealing with the problem, which has represented a fundamental pillar to build the response, which has to be collective. It has to be collective, but we already realize that European solidarity is only reliable conversation. in fact, the position of the so-called 'Union' ends up translating the dimension of the solidarity nature of the European Union and the meaning of the Union: it is the'save' who can in the realm of the 'value all'. And despite the focus of the Eurogroup, there is no solidarity or additional funds. Even so, that May represents the beginning of a return walk to normality, a walk that is long-sighted and that good sense recommends that it be progressive and cautious. As environmentalists, what we expect is that 'after goodbye', that is, after the curve of this pandemic is flattened, we will come to other flattens and other curves. Because it is necessary to flatten the curve of inequalities, especially to think of the thousands of workers who have been unemployed and of those who have seen their income substantially reduced with this crisis. The curve of the distribution of wealth produced, wages, tax injustice and the immorality of tax havens is needed. The curve of the absence of public interest in decisions such as those relating to airport location should be broken down. It is imperative to flatten the curve of treatment between banks and taxpayers. Today, we ask the banks to be sensible and remember that they received millions of euros from the Portuguese, but yesterday no one asked us to be sensible. The money came out of our salaries and pensions directly to the banks and nobody reminded us of any example of help from the banks, until it never existed. It is also necessary to flatten the curve of environmental imbalances. It is imperative to flatten the curve of the climate crisis and loss of biodiversity or the unsustainable use of natural resources. There is a need for a return to reason and an approximation to the April values. I end with a « till now», because at 15 hours of windows and balconies of each one, we will sing the Grândola, in defense of the environment, in defense of health, but also to remember that April 25 is not quarantine. Long live April 25th! [[PCP's ENP and PS's Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u7	On behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u8	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Illustre Entities, High Authorities, Distinguished and Distinguished Guests, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials: On 25 April 1974, the young Captains of April began to realize the dream of generations that had preceded them, with the overthrow of a oppressive dictatorship that had already lasted for more than 48 years and the construction of a democratic state. This dream would not have been possible without the commitment and mobilization of Portuguese society, which was organized to meet the new challenges of political participation in the creation of a free country. Evoking April in 2020, however, has to go beyond the fair tribute to those who have made history. It requires the renewal and strengthening of democratic values, reflecting the present and the freedom to build the future, but noting that, at present, we also have weaknesses that persist and then see that April continues to fulfill. April is about to comply with its fundamental principles, such as the principle of equality. Despite the path so far, not all people have the same social dignity or are treated as equal. The face of domestic violence continues to be markedly feminine. For the performance of the same work, women receive less than men and, although more qualified, they have more difficulty in accessing leadership positions or top positions in politics, where they continue to be underrepresented. April is to be accomplished in the fight against poverty. We simply look at our country and we will see that more than 10% of the population continues to live in poverty, even though it is employed. And vulnerability affects, above all, children and elderly people, once again, in their vast majority women. April is also to be fulfilled in access to justice. If, on the one hand, the defence of the rights and interests protected by the Constitution is treated as a luxury, jeopardising access to the right, on the other hand, does not invest in a serious fight against corruption or in increasing transparency. April is also to be fulfilled in the response of the National Health Service. During successive governments, there was a de-investment in health, either in the enhancement of their human resources or in existing means of response. And this crisis has demonstrated to us the importance of a strong National Health Service capable of responding. We cannot forget that it has not been so long since people in Portugal had no access to the most basic health care. April is also to be fulfilled in the universal right to housing. in our country, there are thousands who do not have a house or a roof and there are many more who do not have a decent home to live, with minimum hygiene and comfort conditions. April is to be fulfilled in the protection of all citizens in sickness, old age, disability and unemployment: those who do not even have the money to warm up their homes in winter or to buy medicines, those who do not have a decent salary or a decent pension to live, those who live isolated or even without mobility conditions that guarantee them full citizenship. April is about to achieve equal access to quality education. in our country, there is still a long way to ensure inclusive education, which helps to reduce the gap between social and regional inequalities. April is due to respect for animals as well. in our country, animals continue to be voted for abandonment, ill-treatment, deprivation of liberty or submission to cruel activities, which harm the humanitarian values that should guide us. April is to be fulfilled in quality of life and environmental. We live submerged in an unsustainable development model, marked by the irrational use of natural resources and in violation of the principle of solidarity between generations. in this country, it is the most orderly economic interest, with license to destroy ecosystems of unique interest and that are still an important engine to combat climate change. April is to be fulfilled in the functioning of the institutions. in the House of Democracy itself, there are still those who show intolerance to deviations from the system's unique thought. in this House, we must not forget that democracy is for everyone and for all. There are no owners of democracy. Only by respecting the democratic plurality and the discordant voices that April has allowed us is the path of growing populism and demagogy. Democracy of little or nothing will serve ceremonies and other symbols that are alien to people's aspirations and concerns and even more the consequences of the current health, economic, social and environmental crisis, dictated by a silent and unknown disease. We well know that the next few days will remain difficult. This disease has focused on the strengths and weaknesses of our democratic regime. by looking at them, we know that we need a redoubled force to freely re-emerge the country, strengthen the National Health Service, promote social and economic well-being, the quality of life of people, a State that creates a new model of economic development, fairer, sustainable and climate-neutral, and, above all, a state that does not allow this crisis to turn into a humanitarian crisis. There are many challenges ahead. But in this turbulent sea, caused by this coronavirus that threatens humanity, we are not all on the same boat. Therefore, as the UN Secretary-General ( United Nations ) said well, the mantra « does not leave anyone behind » now matters more than ever. We need a new roof. We need a new April and an awakening for a new paradigm. Our country needs new policies to reconcile work, family and leisure. Let us think of the role that work plays in our society, the consequences of the closure of thousands of businesses and more than a million citizens in layoffs or the dramatic increase in unemployment figures every day. Let us consider the importance of our children not only have the effective right to access to education but also the right to be children and of all terms right to personal development and free time. We need the time we have today not to be conditioned by this health crisis and we need, as a society, to be able to organize ourselves to allow this same time. Our country thus needs new policies to support cultural and artistic creation. Let's think of the irony of living in a country that started a Revolution with resistance songs and now denies due support and appreciation to its artists. Our country needs new environmental policies and empathy and sensitivity to animals. We think of the self-physical model of development in force, based on the production and consumption in measure, which pollutes and invades untouched ecosystems, destroys habitats and extinguishes species. Science does not tire of alerting to the need to change our habits and behaviors. Otherwise, we will not be able to flatten the carbon curve or avoid the increase in global average temperature. And that will also kill us and more crises like the one we are debating today will follow. Our democratic country will not survive without new policies, without new policies that deepen and reinforce what this crisis has most highlighted: the importance and necessity of a strong social state, which puts people in the forefront and acts in the defence and protection of the interests of their citizens, without any distinction or discrimination, and which strengthens the path to equality. It is recalled that, in democracy, the strength of a state depends directly on the trust of its citizens. There is no trust without transparency and the lack of it also feeds antidemocratic populism. Before we finish, we cannot fail to mention that we cannot all celebrate today on 25 April. Those whose lives we lose and whose families we cannot fail to express regret are missing. Those who are sick or in social isolation are missing. Today, we don't all go out together on the street. We all leave a word of strength and courage, as well as those who are at home caring for their own or watching for compliance with the rules recommended by the Directorate-General of Health, thus protecting themselves and others. We started this intervention by thanking those who opened the way for freedom. We have ended by exalting the solidarity and altruistic attitude of all our fellow citizens, in particular by thanking those who have ensured the functioning of the country, ensuring the health of those who are sick and ensuring the care of the population, the safety of others, the distribution of goods and food, the collection of waste, so many others who provide essential services and of course also to social communication in the words of Gandhi, « fulfilling our duty as citizens of the world». You are our guarantor of freedom and that April continues to live in all of us. Long live April 25th!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u9	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u10	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Illustres Invitados, former President of Ramalho Eanes, Sr.as and Sr. Members: I begin by recalling that the CDS not only disagreed with this ceremony in time of pandemic and in an emergency state as it proposed a viable and responsible alternative for an evocation that we consider essential for representing freedom. That's never been at stake. I look at this room and I see until the parties who imposed it have reduced it and spaced, whether in the number of Members, or in the number of guests. After all, contrary to what they said, the question was never ideological; when much, it was a question of logic. And I will not even use the freedom I owe on 25 April to respond to how much we have heard for having this position. That only qualifies who said it and does not offend who wanted to offend. The CDS is one of the four historic parties of our democracy and the representative voice of Christian democracy in this Chamber, since the first free elections. We accept no-one's democratic lessons. With this emergency ceremony, what the political power is saying is that it allows for itself what it has forbidden the Portuguese and does not respect for itself what it has demanded of the people: isolation and confinement. As long as we celebrate here, the Portuguese can't come together to celebrate anything, not their own birthday. While we celebrate here, our elderly are isolated and the children have stopped seeing their friends. Many are the families who could not even say goodbye to their dead. Thousands lost their jobs and numerous companies were forced to close. Many will not be able to be with their mothers on the next day of May 3 or celebrate their faith on May 13. In democracy, there are no indispensable dates and other dates for the imposition of a majority. in the country, this celebration divided the Portuguese, when the moment is of union. The whole country must respect this Parliament, but Parliament must also respect the Portuguese. Today, April 25, 2020, our collective freedom is defended by all who, in the first line, are saving lives, but also by all who, respecting what political power has determined, are confined, abdicating their individual freedom. So this is a bad example. Still, we are mandated here to consistently carry out our democratic protest, not failing to fulfil our duty. Long live Democracy! Long live Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u11	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, representing the PCP Parliamentary Group, spoke.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u12	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Justice, Mr. President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. Representative of the Captains of April, Mrs. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The April Revolution is the heritage of the people and is the heritage of the future. Today we celebrate with the confidence that the best of its historical path is yet to come and that, sooner or later, the struggle of the workers and the people, the struggle of the Democrats will achieve it in its fullness. It has decided the Assembly of the Republic, and well celebrate the April Revolution. At no difficult time in our collective life, even in the face of the greatest difficulties and transporting the most dense concerns, we could stop celebrating April. And if there is a time when April 25 cannot be deleted, this is to confirm and reaffirm the importance of its liberating project and the currentity of its values and ideals of freedom, social and national emancipation. Yes, it is necessary to be here to exalt the determination of our people, who love freedom and have regained it and who today, like us, goes, at 15 hours, throughout the country, to sing the Grândola and the national anthem, giving expression to the courageous and great courage of the Movement of Armed Forces (MFA) and to this unity built of firm wills that have joined the people and MFA to carry out the most modern and advanced act and process of our contemporary era: a new time, in rupture with a fascist, oppressive and obscurant past that today some, wearing new and hidden garments, intend to whiten out, denigrating April. A new time that allowed to transform the reality lived and, with it transformed and in transformation, to change the way to see the world and society itself. Yes, it was a Revolution that wanted to go far in breaking up many crickets of secular oppression and exploitation. A Revolution that has chosen and decided to create this precious asset that we so value today and that the epidemic outbreak has proved indispensable: our National Health Service, which we need to value and strengthen. A Revolution that opted for the consecration of universal social rights to education, social security, culture and the valorization of work, workers and their rights, by the end of the domain of the economy by monopolies and latimundios. A Revolution that opted for peace against the interests of warmakers. The Revolution, long ago, was confronted with the resistance of powerful economic and political interests and many of its achievements have moved back. It was so much to do! Much is to be done and, more than ever, in this disturbing time, we must continue on the April path, renewing our attachment to its important values. It is the April values that can illuminate the way of Portugal. They are the values of freedom, democracy, the nature of the State designed to respond to the interests and needs of the people and the country, as opposed to the conception of the State as an instrument to serve capital and exploitation. It is the values of economic development that should aim to improve the living conditions of Portuguese, full employment, a fair and balanced distribution of national wealth, sovereignty and national independence. It is the values of April that strengthen us as a people and that can help us overcome the problems that years of policies deny and that the current epidemic situation has worsened. They are values that can and should be translated into a concrete, patriotic and left-wing political programme, expressing all the dimensions of democracy in April, which we want and propose must be both political, economic, social and cultural. We live in difficult times. Those who recently said that we lived above our possibilities are back, imposing real difficulties. They returned to debit their old recipes, triggering catastrophic scenarios to justify the deepening of the holding. They are testing the speech on the inevitability of cutting wages, pensions and rights and thinking of keeping their instruments of exploitation untouchable. We can't accept it! It is not inevitable that the epidemic outbreak will result in regression in the lives of workers and the people. The answer to the difficulties is to value wages and policies aimed at defence and job creation. The large economic and financial groups are already claiming millions of public coffers for their reserved place at the State budget table. We're all on the same boat. The same ones that are at the root of the fierce inequalities have begun to climb champions of the national consensus. No, the Portuguese aren't all in the same condition. They are not on the same boat those who remain full safes and those who are impoverished working and indebted, those who are in layoff and unemployment, those who have worked their whole lives and have lots of reforms and pensions, because they have always had low wages. They're not on the same boat many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. They are not on the same boat those who continue to put millions in Holland and offshore us to escape the tax and those who go from precarious employment to precarious employment, without livelihood. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Rights cannot remain quarantined! The situation in which we live shows the importance of public services to serve the people and the country, shows well the fallacy of the discourse of the diabolization of the state and of public investment or of public expenditure, shows the wrong policies of sub-alternization of national production that neoliberal fundamentalism justified and that the European Union begged and imposed. This is the time to acknowledge that the path is being made by fulfilling the Constitution of the Republic and not against it. Yes, we need to produce here what required us to buy out there, modernizing and diversifying economic activities. We need to get back to the country what should never have been privatized. We need to accelerate investment, to acquire the equipment that the country needs, to build infrastructure, to ensure essential public services. We need to carry out April and celebrate the May of those who work, which we greet. I leave a particular greeting to the hundreds of thousands who are, on this day and every day, in hospitals, essential public services, in factories, in the fields to ensure that the country does not stop. Yes, let April live forever, now more than ever! [[PCP, PS, BE and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u13	You have the floor, representing the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u14	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests: on April 25 which is marked in full pandemic, will allow-CL-me to start by remembering all the people who have succumbed to the new coronavirus, all the people and families who have suffered and who live in distress. They will allow me to start by expressing all our solidarity with all these people. Today, we do not only remember the courageous Captains who, 46 years ago, released the country in the morning and born the day « whole and clean». We also remember and pay tribute to all the workers for whom this transforming morning was made: those of health, industry, distribution, trade, among many others, all the others, who face the epidemic, every day, to make the country function. We owe them all very much and we thank them all very much. This is a different April 25. The concerts will be at the window, going to Grandola today at 3 p.m., and the meetings that are traditionally provided on this day will be on other occasions. Today, we will not descend the Avenue, but we will not forget that freedom is ours. This is, therefore, a different April 25th from everyone else. Different in mode, but even more important in meaning. The country lives under an emergency state, unique in our democratic history. It has been necessary for measures to contain and restrict the movement that have stopped the epidemic, but it does not suspend democracy or serve to attack the rights and freedoms conquered. The pandemic did not decontinuate the Constitution nor "closes the doors that April opened". The health crisis has shown how health is a public good. He showed that the right to health protection is absolutely central, as it is absolutely central is also the National Health Service, son of the 1974 Revolution. Today, we can confirm that it is April that fights the epidemic, not the epidemic that fights April. We must therefore respond to the economic crisis in the spirit of April: solidarity and protection of employment; justice and protection of the incomes of those who have less; equality and intensification of fundamental rights. in the « land of brotherhood», in which we believe and that we want to build permanently, no one remains behind. from the moment we live, we take and continue to learn. We learn that in emergency situations of public health, it is our SNS — the one that is public, universal, general, free — that saves us and protects us. It is not the private who make health a commodity, those who shut doors or those who see in the epidemic another business opportunity. A strong National Health Service is what is needed in the country. We learn that it is in the State that essential functions and strategic sectors should be and that, if not, our response capacity, as a country, will be diminished and our population unprotected. Those who have not yet heard are now aware that all health professionals are essential. All: health assistant technicians, technical assistants, superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, pharmacists, superior health technicians, nurses, doctors. Everyone, no exception. They can never be treated like state fats again and must never be forced to emigrate again. They are neither precarious nor disposable. to those who begin to look at the opportunity to unearth the old poster of austerity, the country will respond with these lessons. If we had less SNS today, as they have always proposed, we would be miserable. If everything had been delivered to the market, as much as they wanted, the population would have no response in the area of health. We need a SNS with more investment to continue the fight against COVID, certainly, but also to recover the suspended activity and at the same time strengthen its response in areas such as mental health or complementary means of diagnosis. We will not go back, while more than EUR 1000 million was taken from the SNS and the right wanted to go beyond the troika and advocate their delivery to the economic groups. We need health professionals who, in addition to being applauded and praised, also have better careers and salaries. They deserve it now and will not allow it to go back, in the time of the freezing of careers or the reduction of the value of work. from the lessons of this crisis, it is also clear, if there are still doubts, that they are the workers who allow the country to function, which ensure that, day by day, does not fail the essential. It is not the shareholders nor the ones who have settled the companies out there to escape the taxes. in which it is the first April 25 after his death, we call the « restlessness» that José Mário Branco told us. Concern when there are workers who have been threatened with wages so as not to put dividends at risk. Concern when employment is precarious and disappears, despite state support not to fire. Concern about a Europe which has been rapidly understood in the past to save banks, but which now can only stretch the hand that push countries to the bottom of debt. Concern that is capable of making the chest « battlefield» to transform the lessons of this crisis into choices that we must make for ourselves, for our people, without asking for permission to Brussels, and concern that it is also capable of « flowers to the millions », even « between ruins ». May they still be millions of red nails to achieve a better country and a better future. Today, when we show that April 25 was neither suspended nor delayed, we remember that there is no night that will not end. And that there have been nights that give rise to whole and clean days. This will have to be done again with the pandemic and the economic crisis. Louis Sepúlveda wrote that « only those who dare can fly». We did it exactly 46 years ago. In days, we moved forward for decades. Let's always do it. Let's do it again. From the crisis, we're just moving forward, never going back. Long live the April Revolution! Long live April 25th! [[Congratulations from BE, the PCP, the ENP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u15	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u16	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Guests, ladies and gentlemen. Members: for the first time, Portugal celebrates April 25 with conditional freedom. The freedom that the Revolution has brought us today is, by virtue of circumstances, limited to this ceremony, itself heavily conditioned. But what at first sight may seem negative is basically a positive example of the democratic regime itself, which, without complexities, proved capable of responding with constitutional legality to a serious threat to our collective health. Portugal has no suspended democracy. It has democracy well present, by demonstrating that it closes, in itself, operating mechanisms capable of responding effectively to a unique and absolutely exceptional circumstance. It would have been dramatic if, by cowardice or ideological complexes, we had not approved the state of emergency and we had not imposed the constraints that circumstances unfortunately require us. For the sake of democracy itself, that did not happen. We are all aware that Portugal lives a very difficult period from a health point of view, as we are going through and that we can come to have a second wave of the pandemic here for a few months. It is therefore necessary for the country to prepare for this eventuality, because the Portuguese economy will not resist a new stop just like the one we are living in. Failures that existed for the first time cannot be repeated. in the next winter, we will have to have a greater response capacity of the SNS from all points of view. We will need to have more equipment available and more professionals qualified to use them. We'll have to have enough tests. There will have to be adequate individual protection for all, starting with health professionals who are in the front line. And there will have to be, as I have already had the opportunity to warn, adequate information and pedagogy that, in the absence of medicines for the cure of infection, support the Portuguese in the necessary strengthening of their immune system. The question of logistics planning cannot be forgotten either, because without it, our answer will always be incomplete and incomplete. in this particular, we have to look with special care at the homes of elderly people, where all these aspects take on an absolutely decisive importance. More important than planning the presence of rulers in newspapers and televisions to advertise, all the time, what they did and what they did not do is to plan the country's response to a possible second wave of the COVID-19. The enormous weakness with which our economy and our public finances will leave this long stop does not accommodate a new struggle of equal size. Therefore, we must also, at the level of the various ministries, correct the failures and injustices that have come to pass, so that companies and workers can receive their support in good time and in good time. The Socialist Party and the parliamentary majority parties that support the Government have ensured that there will be no austerity with them. This is certainly news that everyone likes, but such optimism cannot be prevented from preparing for the worst scenario, because, as the people teach us, « it is better to prevent than to remedy». Mr President, in the evocation of 25 April, we should thank the military who, 46 years ago — as many of the Members here today — have brought us freedom and democracy. I don't want them, and I can't forget. But at this year's celebration, I think it is the greatest justice to recall, above all, those who died victimized by the COVID-19, particularly those who, because of the cruelty of circumstances, could not have a funeral according to our traditions and our cultural values. It is in them and in their families that we should primarily have today, and here, our thoughts. It is to them that we should first devote this Solemn Commemorative Session of 25 April 2020. to the Portuguese who, throughout this time of emergency, continue to work so that our economy does not stop completely and so that we do not lack the goods of first need — starting precisely by health services — can not fail to thank the Assembly of the Republic. The ingratitude, being belonging to some men, cannot be man's. Portugal is going through a particularly difficult time. It will succeed-CL the time of complete dedication to the recovery of the national economy and our collective hope. The unity that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese demonstrated in the fight against this common enemy allows us to be sure that, as in many other moments of our history, we will have to overcome this difficulty with the knowledge and courage with which we have always done so. We will have to overcome, with the same courage that, in time, we doubled the Cape of Storms and, with them, we built Hope. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u17	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u18	Mr. President of the Republic, Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Illustrious Guests: I rise to this rostrum, with emotion and pride, to greet on 25 April 1974 and all its achievements, and with the firm conviction that, in the House of Democracy, we must mark this greater day of Portugal. To mark « The whole and clean start day/Where we emerged from the night and silence», as well wrote Sophia de Mello Breyner. To greet the 25th April of plural Portugal and representative democracy. To welcome the 25th April of freedom, tolerance and equality. On 25 April, democracy, decolonization and development. On 25 April, peace, openness to the world, dreams and the future. To greet that day when the young captain Salgueiro Maia, with courage, without fear, bravery and full of dreams and utopia, captained the column of soldiers who overthrew the 48-year-old dictatorship. this morning, the April Captains, who warmly greeted here, filled the streets and squares of Portugal with hope and gave my generation the opportunity to grow in freedom. Everyone — and allow me, by friendship, to remind the Captain of April and Member of my bench for many years Marques Júnior — of my sincere thanks. [[Congratulations from the PS, BE and PSD Member Rui Rio.]] For my generation, which was born shortly before the Revolution and grew up in a free, democratic and open Portugal to the world, History does not go out. Remembering April is celebrating all its conquests and recalling the liberation of a haunted Portugal, a country of hunger, poverty and inequality; a country devastated by the death and mutilation of thousands of young people in colonial war; a country that forced many into exile, undergroundness and emigration; a country that imprisoned, tortured and killed those who dared to think differently; a country where so many boys were never boys because the school was banned;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a country where women did not have the same rights as men; a country in which an anachronistic colonial war stole the future for young people and the right to self-determination of peoples. It was this country that on 25 April has transformed and, therefore, we must today pay tribute, from the best known to the most anonymous, all who have given their life, with their blood, so that Portugal could change. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak directly to all the Portuguese who follow us from their homes on this 25 April which has been so atypically lived. First of all, I would like to pay tribute to all those who are in social confinement, but also to leave a word of solidarity to the victims and to all the Portuguese who are facing this pandemic in an exemplary way. We are all together facing the pandemic, meeting all the rules of the Directorate-General for Health. Manuel Alegre, in the magnificent text « Red Roses », of the book Song Square, in an ode to freedom and tenderness, about his birthday in the dungeons of the PIDE chains, wrote the following: « In May 1963, I was in prison, that is, in a way, I was in my position ». Many were then in their positions, in different ways, all inconformity with the perpetuation of the dictatorship. I have also mentioned before you the words of Alegre in the context of this Solemn Session of 25 April: could we, ladies and gentlemen, be at a place other than in Parliament to mark the 46th anniversary of 25 April? No, we couldn't! Even in a state of emergency, democracy is not suspended. Every week we have been here working, by the people's mandate, to pass laws and to monitor the government. We would not be up to our responsibilities if we closed Parliament on 25 April. Today, more than any other day, the House of Democracy has to say « present». Today we are here, at this and other sessions, at our position: we who are present here, like all the Members who, under circumstances, cannot be physically. Commemorating freedom is working for democracy and we must not subtract ourselves from any of the necessary dimensions of this work. We do so in the name of the Portuguese who have elected us and, by electing us, have trusted our dedication to keep alive the flame of freedom, of the Constitution and of the Republic, honoring representative democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President of the Republic, as you so well taught generations of law students, Parliament has a unique place in democracy: it is the institution of plurality, where the diversity of the community is represented. Parliament is the House of Differences of Opinion, of Programme Differences, of Differences of Proposals. It is in the Assembly of the Republic that plurality is assumed as a constituent value and as a guarantor and instrument of the common good. It is here that it is stated, every day and every debate, that national unity is the plural unity of diversity. That is why Parliament cannot, under any circumstances, cease to occupy its place and assume its responsibilities for representation, because our differences cannot be divisive and destructive. Our differences are legitimate, but their assertion must coexist with the ability to unite in what is essential at decisive times for the Portuguese. Never in these 46 years, as in the last month and a half, has democracy been so tested. None of us would imagine that by 2020 we would be limited in our freedom by a pandemic, an invisible enemy, which imposed on us the circumstances that led to the declaration of the state of emergency. But the democracy we conquered on 25 April is consolidated and alive. So we are being able to use the powers of exception in moderation. We therefore guarantee in the emergency the role of Parliament in the balance of powers that guarantees the rule of law. We therefore have a Parliament which has never stopped its operation and which has not been suspended by the emergency. The unknown enemy who threatened our freedom also showed up other demons already known, such as xenophobia, national closure and fear — an underground fear that some would like to use to shake the pillars of the democratic rule of law. To feel fear is man's own. Even those who resisted during the dictatorship never stopped being afraid, but they knew they wouldn't let themselves be defeated for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, too, it is our responsibility not to decide conditional on fear and to prevent the exploitation of fear as a political weapon. A Parliament that would be kidnapped by demagogy would be failing April, as it would fail April, a Parliament closed on itself. To have a strong Parliament is to carry out April. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today 45 years ago the Constituent Assembly was elected. They were the first free elections of democratic Portugal and in less than a year the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic was approved. It is the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic which corporates all the achievements and democratic values of April. The Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not past, present and future! The establishment of a democratic regime allowed the end of the isolation of Portugal. The vision of Mário Soares has led us to European integration, and how this integration has brought us development and hope in a better, more peaceful, more equal and more solidarity! Open... It is therefore important today to look at our role in the European Union and the challenges facing the European project. The citizens have never been so demanding in the face of the European project. The news we have received from Europe alternates between good, bad and uncertain. But as far as it depends on us, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Europe will be strengthened in this crisis, it will be part of its solution and not of the gigantic problems ahead. Let us hope that everyone will want to share this feeling of strengthening Europe. To evoke April 25 is not just to commemorate, it is to renew the commitment to freedom, democracy, development and well-being, which, fortunately, has been consensual in Portuguese society. And for so long, so consensual that it was, I'm afraid we forgot that freedom is a delicate flower. It has recently been released that there are more dictatorships in the world than democracies and, if there is no reason to be pessimistic in Portugal, we must be aware of the situations of the other parts of the world. Our commitment to freedom, as people with political responsibilities, is renewed every day in our ability to listen to people, to feel their problems, to look with respect at different opinions, to our ability to work for the common good. These months have shown that adversity does not have to take away freedom. The next few years will show that freedom is not only the fairest, but also the most effective way to build prosperity. This is the next challenge of our lives. We all move to win in April, once again, our individual and collective freedom. To all Portuguese I leave the words of Torga :"Recommence.../ If you can/ Without anguish/ And without hurry. / And the steps you take, / on this hard path/ of the future/ Give them free. / As long as you don't reach/ Don't rest. - Of no fruit trees only half. Do not keep on seeking. ” April is all Portuguese! Long live April 25th! Long live Freedom! [[Congratulations from the PS and the MEP of BE Catarina Martins.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u19	Your ex-President of the Republic will now send a message to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u20	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Presidents of the Supreme Court of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court, Mr. President Antonio Ramalho Eanes, Mr. Ministers, Cardinal Patriarch of Lisbon, Dear Guests, Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portuguese: He gave the Assembly of the Republic, at this time of sacrifice of all Portuguese, the official evocation ceremony of 25 April and kept it here in this House, in terms in which he has done it, although with a very small number of Members and guests. It has also done so bearing in mind that it has never interrupted plenary sessions during the emergency state, to constitute this formula, which would more easily give voice to the increased multiplicity of party formations, and to fill in the number of present with the conditions defined for days ago by the health authorities. They understand the Portuguese that the President of the Republic respects the competence of the Assembly of the Republic on the evocation, location, format and composition of the participants, as in principle they have always respected their predecessors when the Assembly was in office, i.e., out of electoral periods. They also understand that the President of the Republic, symbol of the national unity, in no case, even concoction with the House of Democracy, which translates diversity in this unit, at a time of the country's life that demands convergence in the face of such serious challenges as life, health and even decent life in employment, wages, income, families and businesses. This hour imposes on us unity, unity that is neither uniqueness nor unanimity, but unity among the Portuguese who have remembered it in their day to day and unity among the political leaders, a convergence that has been decisive for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The President of the Republic is, however, obviously sensitive to the doubts of some Portuguese who have emerged in the last few weeks about the sitting here today. It really understands that it is essential that we all continue together, because the way to do is still long, difficult and unpredictable, to say what you think of each of these critical questions. Is this not an exceptional time and, in exceptional times, should not customary evocations be dispensed and, for many, ritualists? Don't! It is precisely in exceptional times that it is necessary to recall what constitutes more than a custom or a ritual, which is clearly essential. June 10 is essential and will be recalled. The 1st. December is essential and will be recalled. October 5 is essential and will be recalled. April 25 is essential and must be recalled. In exceptional times, of pain, suffering, mourning, separation, confinement, it is more important to evoke the homeland, independence, the Republic, freedom and democracy. But being this a time when several of us do not see children or grandchildren, nor have we visited sick or homes for another month and in which we can only, some of us at risk group, leave our homes in much more limited terms, is it not a time that rejects what this evocation brings with us a political party spirit? Don't! The present evocation is not a political party other than the climate of deprivation experienced in Portuguese society. To evoke April 25 is to speak of this time, it is not to ignore it. It is to speak of its present and future challenges, what we do and what we lack to do, what we succeed and what we err. It is also going to the roots to seek additional forces, to find more reasons to mobilize, to cope with fatigue, discouragement and frustration. And those of us here, worth remembering, in the diversity of opinions, we did not come from another country, from another world, from another galaxy, we were the free choice of the Portuguese. What brings us together today are their dramas, their longings, their anxieties, which we are responsible for. But even accepting that the spirit of the session is this, in a time of confinement of so many Portuguese, as it was at Easter and is now at Ramadan, are we not faced with a bad example in an emergency state, in terms of principles, as in the observance of the health directives? Don't! The state of emergency implies an extraordinary strengthening of the powers of the Government and because we live in freedom and democracy, and it is with them that we want to overcome these crises, the greater the powers of the Government, the greater the powers of the Assembly of the Republic to control it. Therefore, the Assembly of the Republic has never ceased to function: it has discussed and voted the most important in plenary sessions. by doing so, he worked and worked to carry out his national mission. And you have done so, and you do so today too, respecting the health directives, as is obviously necessary. This session is an example of this. It's a good example and not a bad example. Here there were conflicting voices that spoke of April 2020, of successes and also of failures, past and present, and of future dreams and fears, in a critical situation of national life. What would be truly incomprehensible and civicly shameful was to have a whole country living this time of sacrifice and surrender and the Assembly of the Republic resigning itself from exercising all its powers in a situation in which they were, and are, more than ever, indispensable. [[PS, PSD, BE, PCP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] And also in this session that has always been, and will be, a crucial moment of critical and plural control in freedom and democracy. Because these are the April values. To evoke April is not just, above all, to greet in a special way President Antonio Ramalho Eanes, that of his military, who was the first President of the democratically elected Republic in Portugal, also symbol of the spirit of unity of our civic meeting. [[P.S., PSD and MP's applauded Joacine Katar Moreira.]] To evoke April is not just, above all, to thank the representative of the Captains of April, present here, his insubmissive gesture and that of his peers. [[P.S., PS.D. and BE.]] To evoke April is not just, above all, to remember the Constitution that two of us, here present, voted in very different benches a few decades ago. To evoke April is not just, above all, to remember, in this first year in which they are no longer all with us, the four main founders of post-April constitutionalism, and who successively left us: Francisco Sá Carneiro, Álvaro Cunhal, Mário Soares and last year Diogo Freitas do Amaral. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] To evoke April is, in this circumstance, to fight the health crisis, which we are still going through and through, and because of it, the economic and social crisis that we are beginning to live and live for years. To evoke April is to mourn the dead, who will deserve, at the end of this trial, a collective tribute from those who could not pay their personal homage. To evoke April is to test those who will test. It's to isolate those who're going to isolate. It's interning those who're going to be in. It is to ventilate those that are to be ventilated, virus patients and other diseases. It is to protect those who are to be protected, including those who live in similar homes or institutions. It is to combine mature openings with well explained and well understood precautions to be conjugated. It is up to the unemployed, those at risk of being, the afflicted families, the strangled companies. It's to remember the compatriots who suffer the pandemic through this outside world. It is even more necessary to demand a Europe that is lucid, supportive, committed and quick to act. It is to overcome selfishness, unilateralism, closed visions of the world and of the life to be overcome. It is not to immolate those who stayed behind on the altar of progress, as Pope Francis remembered, that is, not to exclude the most excluded. To evoke April is to witness endless gratitude to those who have saved, saved and saved lives and should therefore be constantly caressed, now and always, and those who have helped to save and maintain the basics in our society — civilians, armed forces and security forces. To evoke April is to recognize improvises, impreparations, delays, but also skills, devotions, determinations, work and more work, containment and more restraint, which seemed and seemed endless. To evoke April is to draw lessons from what has been and is this unique experience, the frailties, inequalities, the cleavage in our social fabric, the weaknesses, the lacks, the discoordinations, the stiffness, the slowness in too many of our institutions, but also the examples of creativity, digital versatility, excellence in biomedical research, inspired and inspiring disarinclinement, generous volunteerism, unlimited solidarity, permanent civic maturity, unimaginable resistance, unconditional availability to embrace decisive national causes. To evoke April is to live all this in freedom and democracy, with an irreplaceable social communication, as it is always in democracy, without censorship, and social networks without controls, with a state of preventive and non-repressive emergency, adopted without a vote against this House, with contained and unregulated detentions, combating the virus and not hiding it. If this is no reason for us to realize the difference between freedom that assumes and repression that erases and between democracy that reveals and dictatorship that silences, then we will never realize that our determination in the struggles we are fighting and we will win comes from our nearly 900-year history, but also from having created and preserved a free and democratic Portugal. [[P.S. and PS.D. applause.]] In the face of the problems we face and those we will face, in freedom and democracy, we must continue to resist the weariness, fatigue and lassity. We must maintain as much convergence as possible, we must not give in to the simplicity of separating old and new, metropolitan, urban and rural, autonomous regions, however their specific autonomy, Porto, North, Center, Alentejo, Algarve and Lisbon. Nor can we fall into the easy temptation to discriminate ideas, currents of opinion or people, as if April 25 were only in part of Portugal. None of us Portuguese, starting with what they can and therefore more should be held accountable, if they were in their hands, would have wanted to live these crises. None! But now that they're there in our lives, we have to win. To stop evoking on 25 April at the time when he, perhaps, more is being tested in the last 46 years would be a civic absurd and not to do so in this House of Democracy, with the presence of all the main powers of the state and beyond them, would be a bad sign, a terrible sign of lack of unity in essential and commitment to, together in our differences, continue a mission that is not finished, as united and together have been the Portuguese. It would still be surpassing the passenger, the transitory, the ephemeral to the lasting, to the permanent, to the essential, rather than looking far and deep, as in crucial moments the Portuguese always did. We did so in the unlikely independence, in the impossible maritime expansion, in the inexhaustible universal presence, in the inner seed of freedom that was launched 200 years ago in the Revolution of the Port, in the unbeatable gesture of April 1974. To look far and deep, here is why the President of the Republic has never hesitated a second time to come here and to be here in this call from April. [[P.S.P.D., Mr José Manuel Pureza and Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.]] A unique moment is not exchanged to evoke April 1974, speaking of the sacrifices of April 2020, due to the momentary satisfaction of transient, ephemeral and insistent impulses that appear to be. The ephemeral is ephemeral. If April had served the ephemeral, our freedom and democracy would have taken a long time, and they would not be what they are. If Portugal had, at the beginning of its history, taken care of the ephemeral, it would not have been even Portugal. And now, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portuguese, let's go essentially. We're going to win the crises we have to win! [[Upstairs, PS, PSD, CDS-PP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-25.u21	This concludes the XLVI Anniversary Commemorative Session of 25 April 1974. [[It was 11 hours and 47 minutes.]]
