ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The first item on our agenda is the general assessment of the Bill No 56 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the deadline for submitting the proposal for the municipal budget to 2021. For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, Jorge Botelho. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleague of the Government: The bill that is presented today aims to give more conditions to municipalities so that, with predictability and certainty, they can draw up their municipal budgets. Basically, it is a bill that amends for the year 2021, reflecting already in the 2020 budgets, Article 45. the, paragraph 1, of Law No 73 / 2013, the Local Finance Act, allowing municipal chambers to prepare their budgets a month later and subject them to the approval or submission of the municipal assembly until November 30. This is an important measure in view of the framework we are going through and also of the period of confinement, of course, and there is also the question of, in municipal budgets, having the highest degree of absolute certainty about the heading to be placed there later, in the following year, avoiding the amendments, the budgetary revisions, which are normal, but which, of course, we think should be as predictable for all, particularly in this year, in which we have an authentic challenge ahead. That is all we had to propose to you, a timely amendment to this diploma, which makes all the sense in this atypical year that you are running.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u3	For an intervention on behalf of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is here today to discuss the postponement of the deadline for approval of the municipal budgets in an exceptional situation, but the question we should be asking is whether the exception should not in fact be the rule. The municipal budgets — and now the ones in the parish too — should always be presented and discussed after the adoption of the State budget. And why? Because, with the prior knowledge of the funds that were restricted to them, the municipalities would have the opportunity to better measure their priorities and avoid duplication of the distribution of funds. Everything for the benefit of your own municips. In addition, this timetable change would have several additional advantages: it would increase the convergence between the provisions of the local authorities' financial regime and the municipal budgets; it would reduce the frequency of the need for budgetary revisions or corrections; it would favour compliance between the fundamental principles of that financial regime — legality, budgetary stability, financial autonomy, transparency, coordination between local finances and state finances, among many others — and their materialisation in municipal budgets. All of this would give more stability to the budgets of the authorities, freeing their authorships to devote themselves to what really matters, which is to improve the lives of their monks. As regards the timetable for municipal budgets, it is probably when it comes to transforming the exception into a rule.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u5	For an intervention by the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill provides an adequate response to the current exceptional context caused by the health crisis, extending within a month the deadline for the chambers to submit the budget, in this case, to 2021. The NAP understands that this is a necessary and therefore positive solution, which prevents subsequent changes, budgetary corrections beyond those that may occur throughout 2021. It also seems to us essential, in the field of expertise, to clarify that the final part of Article 27 is repealed. paragraph 2 of the legal regime of local authorities, since it seems clear that, with this law which is intended to be approved, it is more conscious to foresee that the discussion of municipal budgets will actually take place in December. This debate here should also serve to alert the Government about the need for concrete measures to be taken in this budget which guarantee both the municipalities and the parish, the necessary financial means of responding to these crises we have experienced, significantly strengthening the Municipal Social Fund, because we cannot accept in the future the underfunded Social Fund, as it was in 2020, which was underfunded in EUR 35 million and with a value equal to 2009. We therefore believe that we must transform the Municipal Social Fund into an emergency fund in the context of the COVID-19, extending to the next year the validity of the exceptional rule that allows us to include expenditure on combating the health crisis and the social crisis, so that municipalities can then continue to do not only what they have done, but even more, ensuring the protection of populations and supporting non-governmental organizations, public utility institutions and other institutions that serve the purpose of social intervention and that have, in fact, given fundamental answers when we live. But, Mr Secretary of State, we cannot forget the parish. It is necessary to ensure not only adequate participation in State resources, but also a legal amendment that facilitates the granting of support for activities of a social and educational nature by the parish—at least this is our position. In fact, there is much to be resolved in this State budget. on the part of the NAP, if there is any political will and a real intention to negotiate by the Government, they can count on us in what is the building of bridges and in particular on solutions that ensure that the authorities can play their part and give the necessary answers to the crises we are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u7	Mr José Maria Cardoso, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government brings us a proposal on the amendment of the deadline for discussion, debate and, or not, approval of the municipal budgets. As far as this is concerned, we are perfectly in agreement. We think it is an exceptional measure for an exceptional time, but we also consider that a rule can be instituted, because of this exceptionality. Indeed, as has already been mentioned, it is very important for a municipal budget to have all the data available to constitute itself as such and makes sense that it is drawn up, in its final part, from what are the forecasts of the State budget, so we regard this claim as valid and fair. But I would like to raise a few points in relation to what is presented here. In fact, it is an exceptional measure, but little responds to its own exceptionality. In other words, in the context of the situation in question, when it refers to « the most up-to-date possible information», the truth is that we are talking about a month and probably not in a month that there is time to realize dynamics of the pandemic itself that is invoked here. When he refers to « changes and corrections for facts that still occur in the year 2020 », he actually reduces one month for this to happen, but I would say that this is not an answer to what needs to be taken into account. It's a palliative. It is, therefore, an argument from the point of view of the possibility of modifying the presentation of the municipal budget, but we agree that the municipal budget is a document drawn up during the year, often in accordance with goals, objectives to be achieved and according to what is achieved in the course of the year in action. Therefore, it is not exactly something that is done at the end of the year, it is adjusted on the basis of possible revenue and expected expenditure, and it is a document that works during the year, so I do not think that it is the appropriate answer to this concrete and exceptional issue. Therefore, considering that the dynamics generated by this pandemic are very particular from each locality, both in time and in the characteristics of the territory and of what may influence, they have a different health, economic and social dimension from municipality to municipality, often even in neighbouring municipalities. in this context, the Left Block presents a proposal, proposing and defending, before Mr. Secretary of State, the possibility of creating a municipal support fund that responds locally to the impacts caused by the pandemic. What does this mean? That municipalities would resort to this fund, in accordance with their real needs and with what was due to the problem of the pandemic itself in each of these localities. Therefore, the Government would provide a fund to deal with and respond to these needs, on a timely basis in relation to municipalities, and, as time goes on, depending on the events, which, unfortunately, are likely to be extended for the next year. On the other hand, taking advantage of the issue of the municipal budget, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether it would be to equalize the suspension of the transfer of powers under the process of decentralisation. We know that many of these transfers will increase, in a way—and how, many times! — the costs, the expenditure of each of the municipalities. Is it not fair to suspend, at least temporarily, this process of decentralization? Finally, and since we are talking about the municipal budget, I would like to ask the Government whether it is not in a position to increase the transfer of funds, particularly from the Municipal Social Fund, to the municipalities, in full compliance with what is the Local Finance Act, something that has long been claimed by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u9	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Mrs Cecilia Meireles now speaks for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal which we are discussing today, the proposal to extend the deadline for the submission of the municipal budget exceptionally this year, in itself, does not deserve any objection. in the same way, I think it was already visible that, in some cases, the need for this deadline to be revised more structurally, because, as it is evident, it is very difficult for municipalities to draw up their proposals for municipal budgets without realizing, from the point of view of the State budget, what their financial allocation will be. I understand this difficulty, but I think it has to be compatible with the need of municipal assemblies also have time to analyze the municipal budget. We here have a time limit because the Budgets have to enter into force on 1 January of the following year. But if the deadlines start to go very far — and here is the Christmas period — then the assemblies don't have time to do this. So I think we need to take some care of the balance. That is why it might be important — although it has already been withdrawn from this idea — that the State Budget could begin to be delivered on 1 October, because this would allow more time for all these acts that follow the State Budget. I would also like to remind you, now that we are discussing the municipal budgets, which makes sense that we will also understand what the State budget will bring about in this area. The Government has decided to establish a decentralization which is made quite financially opaque—it is good to say—without even knowing exactly what the financial envelopes and the means accompanying this transfer of competence are in each municipality and in each jurisdiction. And this supervision must necessarily be carried out. It is also worth saying that it has been realized — and I think that, during the pandemic, that unfortunately we still live, it has been well understood — the need for proximity in social action and often even in the coordination of social security and health services. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that the transfer of skills in education and health has been postponed. It was supposed to enter into force on 1 January 2021 and was already postponed to 2022. in the same way, the transfer of competences in social action was also postponed and, in this case, there is still much to do. I therefore think that, without making this further analysis of the process of decentralization of competences, obviously there will be no problem for us in looking at the issue of deadlines. But the basic question is how to manage the money that is public, that is from all of us, and who can manage it more effectively. The issue has, above all, to do with decentralization. With regard to time-limits and forms, of course, we will have all the openness to discuss them. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u11	Mr Palmira Maciel of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are called on to discuss and vote on a bill extending the deadline for the submission by the municipalities of budget proposals for next year. As the Government points out, it is therefore intended to avoid corrections and amendments to that fundamental document of local management in the context of the pandemic and its priority consequences and responses. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers the relevant proposal, given that it takes account of the framework of economic uncertainty arising from the situation arising from the epidemic and the need for the preparation of the municipal budgets with the most up-to-date information possible, avoiding changes and corrections due to events still taking place. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the unpredictable evolution that the current pandemic has seen since the last month of March, but we do not know what the events it will bring to bear by the end of this year. Much less we know why roads lead us in the next few days, which implies substantially with the predictive instruments that affect any budget, mainly those of the local authorities. We are aware of the fundamental importance of the role of local authorities in supporting the population, in the context of this epidemic, and in the fight that, since its emergence, has moved it on several fronts. If health sector entities, by nature, obviously gain primacy in this fight, the local authorities, because they are closer to the population, are those who, in line with the government and the authorities themselves protected, more combat the harmful consequences of this pandemic. Knowing this reality, it is up to us to approve mechanisms that facilitate the exercise of their powers, always taking into account the observance of rigour and the fulfilment of the relevant legal framework. The Government has been responding with several legislative initiatives facilitating the exercise of municipal competences in the context of pandemic disease, always taking into account the reduction of negative consequences for Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u14	in these long months in which the COVID-19 disease has been among us, the authorities have replicated action models, always in the first line of contact with the populations, always as key actors in the containment and combat process, always flexible and incorporating new dimensions of deficiency that allow a wider performance. As we all know, municipal services have distributed and distributed food and medicines, provide psychological support by telephone, keep the streets clean, create hospitals and help in screening centers. The authorities strengthened their responses and complemented State measures. We bear in mind, of course, that all municipalities are exempt from the limit of indebtedness in expenditure for the acquisition of goods and services relating to the protection of public health. In exceptional situations, duly substantiated and directly related to unfavourable costs associated with the fight against the pandemic, the municipal chambers were authorized to enter into short-term loans. Some limitations under the Law on Commitments and Late Payments of Public Entities have also been suspended, where necessary payments are concerned to respond to the situation of public calamity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this context, we recall that Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September approving the Financial Regime of Local Authorities and Intermunicipal Entities states that "in cases where elections to the municipal executive body take place between 30 July and 15 December, the proposal for a municipal budget for the following economic year shall be submitted within three months from the date of its taking of office". Obviously, we are not now faced with the implications of an electoral act, but before, before, obvious indefinition on the evolution of the pandemic and its budgetary implications until 30 December of this year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are proposing, this is what we have proposed, and this is what the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has already given its positive opinion, and this is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group agrees, since it wants to be associated with decisions that will facilitate the performance of those who fight this pandemic in the first line and, in this reality, makes all support available to the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u15	Mr Paula Santos spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : As for the proposal that the Government bring today the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, in order to extend the deadline for the submission of the municipal budget from the end of October to the end of November, we do not oppose it either. We understand the intentions and, indeed, it makes sense that, in the preparation of the budget, municipalities can have the means and the elements that enable them to prepare it with greater rigour and certainty, avoiding any revisions in the future. We also follow the reference to the importance and role of municipalities, municipalities in general, with populations. Indeed, throughout this whole context that we live in our country, they have played a very important role, which we value and recognize. Its workers have been inexhaustible to ensure essential services, basic services — often exposing themselves to risk situations — and therefore it was important that they were also valued, particularly with the allocation of the supplement of insanity, penosity and risk. In fact, the workers of the authorities have played an important role, which we want to welcome. in this debate, we would also like to mention the importance of equipping the authorities with the means necessary to fulfil their competences, also in this extraordinary and exceptional time we live. We know that, possibly, the authorities will have a reduction in revenue, they will have expenditure which was not planned, following the pandemic, and the solution cannot be to push the authorities to indebtedness. It cannot only be through loans, because they will have to be paid later. What was important to ensure was the strengthening of transfers of funds through the State budget. In fact, in the discussion of the Supplementary Budget itself we brought proposals in this direction, because these are the proposals that effectively ensure the economic and financial balance of the municipalities. It is important to respond to the concerns and circumstances of the pandemic, but we cannot push for the future new problems. We must avoid this, and from there we will raise this question. The pandemic should also not be used as a pretext for transferring more and new charges to the authorities. They have their own defined competences and that is where they should be based on their intervention, not through the deresponsibility of the government with regard to their competences, transferring them to the municipalities. In short, it is essential to ensure to local authorities the conditions and means, in this particular case, financial, so that they can fulfil their powers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u17	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, I would like to greet all the autarchs. The action of Portuguese autoarchs was and continues to be remarkable in terms of support, commitment and proximity, fundamental to their populations. Allow me to pay more personal compliments, because they are present, to the Members who have been presidents of the chamber and other autarchs. I also address a word of appreciation to all local government officials, who have long resumed their duties in a face-to-face manner, contrary to many decentralised public administration services. Autarchic power is one of the greatest achievements of democratic Portugal, always present at the service of the people, especially when the other powers fail or are absent from the territories, as noted in the first months of fighting the pandemic. The Proposal for Law No 56 / XIV / 2. the aim is to specify, exceptionally, an additional period of 30 days for municipal chambers to submit the proposal of the municipal budget for 2021 to the deliberative body, the municipal assembly. This initiative by the Government, aimed at the authorities, is justified by the framework of economic uncertainty resulting from the situation caused by COVID-19 disease. In the sense of the PSD, it is to be only for 2021, because even in normal years the approval of the municipal budget by the executive body until 30 October is carried out without the prior approval of the State budget, which implements headings of high amount and determining scope for municipalities. As a result, the PSD has already put forward a proposal to make this final change to the future and hopes to be accompanied by the other parliamentary groups. The PSD recognizes this measure, but, at an exceptional time, when the majority of the autarchs called for support, what was expected of the government was that it would provide more means for the work that the authorities are developing for their populations and the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we know that the Government has already taken various measures aimed at the authorities in the context of the current situation of the COVID-19. We also know that, unfortunately, the government has not yet created the procedural, material and financial conditions for its materialisation. This Government has not taken measures to contribute to effective and necessary support for the liquidity of the authorities and to mitigate the enormous financial effort they have made and continue to make efforts to respond to the epidemiological and social situation. We do not realize the government's lack of response to exceptional situations that require exceptional answers, these answers that have been given by our city and parish authorities. The new school year began and were the authorities, especially those in the interior, who had to finance school transport with additional investments and hire more people whose contracts were not foreseen. Will the Government strengthen the Municipal Social Fund or create new transfer lines? They had already been the authorities to finance the purchase of computers for students. Will the government finance the expenditure already incurred by the authorities? When? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also the authorities that are in the front line in areas such as social support for families, adaptation of schools, the follow-up of older households, especially in emergency situations, support for activities related to cultural and sports sectors, the revival of tourism or — stop! — the financing of the inter-municipal communities because the Government does not continue to transfer the funds corresponding to 0, 5 % of the FEF ( Financial Balance Fund ) to these entities as provided for in the Local Finance Act. [[PSD applause.]] For all this, the revenues of the authorities have fallen sharply, while their expenses increase exponentially. We will be very attentive to the State budget — an essential instrument for the economic and social recovery of our country — which will enter here a few days, as well as how the Government values and supports our authorities and their populations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u20	To close this item on our agenda, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, Jorge Botelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleague of Government: We support this proposal, as well as the reasoning and reflection here made on the role of the authorities. In fact, the authorities have had a lot of work to monitor the populations and this is recognised unanimously and, above all, precisely. This concrete measure somehow accompanies greater flexibility and closer proximity between the definition of the funds in the State budget, which will enter this House on October 12, and the time for the authorities to be able to know, in particular, in Map XII of the Budget, which is the map where they define which funds go to each municipality, to account for them in terms of the revenue. It is presented here conjuncurally for this year, but of course we can withdraw evaluation time from the municipal assemblies, because budgets have to be presented and approved by the end of the year. But I think this is a good measure, indeed, when it was announced, was very well welcomed by the municipalities, in this context of uncertainty. We therefore bring here this measure, which, according to what I have heard from all parliamentary banks, was well received, because it is useful for municipalities. Obviously, there are a set of considerations that have been made here and whose answer will be in the State Budget, which will be presented, discussed and approved in this House. Obviously, there is a local finance law, which will surely be examined in detail by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I have already answered the questions put by Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. With regard to the Municipal Social Fund, in particular the proposal by Mr José Maria Cardoso on the establishment of a social support fund for expenditure under the pandemic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u22	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u23	... I would like to point out that a working group has also been set up within this House on matters relating to the budget of the Municipal Social Fund, specifically for the COVID expenditure eligible under the Municipal Social Fund. Finally, I would like to mention the issues of decentralization. The process of decentralization is underway, is ongoing, and there are many municipalities involved. There are 43 municipalities that have already accepted all competences and there are three specific competences which have different dates for March 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u24	Mr. Secretary of State, I would like you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u25	I'm done now, Mr. President. What we really need to do is to speed up, because the year 2021 will be a lot of work, to speak to the authorities in order to accept, within the deadline, all the powers that have been decided here by law, in the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u26	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the first item on the agenda. We enter the second point, which consists of the joint discussion of Resolution Projects Nos. 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of public services in the municipalities of Odemira and Aljezur and the definition, within a maximum of one year, of the definitive urban solution for the lack of conditional housing supply, 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement social and environmental responses in regions most affected by intensive and superintensive agricultural crops, 225 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop integrated housing and social responses for agricultural workers within the Mira River perimeter, 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government urgent and specific measures to strengthen public services, to increase control and control over the working conditions of agricultural workers and to guarantee decent housing within the Mira river perimeter and 591 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government amend the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 of 24 October with a view to safeguarding an effective continuation of public housing policies. Before giving the floor to Mrs Filipa Roseta to present the legislative initiative of the PSD, the Bureau thanked the Members and the Members. Members standing in favour of settling as soon as possible and creating better acoustic conditions so that we can continue our work. [[Pause.]] Please, Mrs. Filipa Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : The PSD Parliamentary Group has called for this debate to be scheduled because it wants to alert to the difficulties faced by the people of Odemira and Aljezur. We can't always be talking about territorial cohesion and then, when there's a low-density territory that needs us, start blowing to the side.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u28	It seems they've never whistled to the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u29	More than empty speeches and announcements, how we respond on the ground to the challenges of the populations—or how we do not respond on the ground to the challenges of the populations—shows the country that we are, but above all, the country we want to be. The numbers well show the difficulties these populations face. Now, imagine this: in Odemira there are 16 000 people living and between 2017 and 2019, 8000 — 8000 have been registered! — certificates of residence. Therefore, in a village designed to involve 16 000 people, suddenly in two years more than 2000 appeared. Imagine what this means in terms of pressure in public services, which were not reinforced accordingly, despite the various appeals made in this House. Imagine the ranks in social security, imagine the rows in finance, imagine the health center, imagine the pressure in the services of things as simple as garbage collection, imagine the organization in schools, and imagine, above all, the pressure in housing conditions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u30	What is really sad, in this story of Odemira and Aljezur, was that it had everything to be a case of success. A set of dozens of small entrepreneurs, agricultural producers, joined together to dynamize the Mira water perimeter, an infrastructure built in the 1960s. They have invested, focused on the territory and, in recent years, have stimulated this economic activity, which is not seasonal and which exports virtually all production. in an encouragement to always demand for more employment, to fight desertification and the ageing of the population, to hear that there is a village that contributes to the increase in exports and that has nearly doubled the few children enrolled in school must be a reason for hope on a path that wants sustainable development. [[PSD applause.]] But, as we all know today, sustainable development must be based on three pillars: social, economic and environmental. Above all, it is necessary to draw a path of common sense, without radicalizing positions, without calling each other to shout at others, serving people without forgetting economic development, without undermining the impacts on the territory, particularly when water is at stake, one of our most valuable goods that tends to be increasingly scarce. What did the government do? It did not strengthen public services accordingly, despite the various appeals during this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u31	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u32	With the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019, it created an exception regime to legalize what was not possible to be legalized in the light of the law, in the area of spatial planning and in respect of minimum living conditions. It created an exception regime which allowed housing in containers, under conditions of overcrowding and in agricultural reserve. He created a committee and "pulse with the belly" the solution for 10 years. There are three mistakes here. First mistake: Overcrowding has been prohibited in our law since the middle of the 20th century for public health reasons and, as the pandemic has shown, in various situations in the country, is a risk factor for the generation of outbreaks of disease. Second error: in the area of spatial planning, temporary solutions cannot be defined when the final solution is not in view. Third error: no exception schemes are made as far as any solution is concerned. Therefore, any other producer in any other part of the country can ask for the same solution, i.e. we can multiply these villages of containers by all agricultural reserves in the country. What we're asking today is done, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, do you approve our draft resolution? We call for the immediate strengthening of public infrastructure and services — and I am sure that this must have a general consensus — and we call for the urban solution to be finalised within one year to accommodate the sustainable and harmonious development of these councils. We don't want hypotheses, we don't want scenarios, we don't want PowerPoint, we don't want ads of big housing programs that never come out of paper. [[PSD applause.]] We want a land planning plant with the closed solution, where producers know that they can invest in the long term instead of spending money renting containers, giving them the confidence they need to promote the construction of decent, permanent and safe homes for all. In addition to these two points, we follow the NAP's suggestion that there are systematic analyses of water resources in order to monitor the impacts of activity on the territory, ensuring efficient use and preventing contamination. These are three simple points that can make all the difference and I hope it will be possible to gather consensus around them. I wanted to end with a sentence from the father of ecological thinking in Portugal, Gonçalo Ribeiro Telles, Minister of Francisco Balsamão, father of the agricultural reserve, ecological reserve, founder of the AD (Democratic Alliance ), next to Francisco Sá Carneiro, who said : « Each generation has a relatively small share in the construction of a landscape, and may nevertheless have a profound role in the distribution of the general balance. » May our role be profound, that we can generate consensus around this issue, that we can walk in the direction of a developed and sustainable country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u33	We now turn to the NAP, and Mr Nelson Silva has the floor to present his initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking again about intensive and superintensive production in our country. We're talking again about their adverse impacts, either to the environment, or to the populations of the areas where these environmental crimes occur. Since 2009, the areas of deployment of these farms have more than doubled. For example, the intensive fines ranged from 1000 to 7000 ha only in the last five years, with devastating effects both on the environment and on the local economy, and on the national cultural heritage. Still this week, we were confronted with the news of the complete destruction of a neolytic structure to give rise to another intensive exploitation of peanuts. Is this what we have to offer? Selling our culture, our health, our dignity for profit at all costs? And the exhaustion of our soils and our water resources? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Environment Agency itself did a study in which it detected the presence of pesticides prohibited by law in waters where farms are more intense. I ask you: when water is too contaminated to drink, what are we going to tell these populations to consume? Liquidized notes and coins? When soils are too dry and infertile due to misuse of water and overuse of chemicals on these farms, and nothing can be planted, what are we going to eat? Bank cards? What the NAP proposes is responding to the current needs of both populations and environmental emergencies. We propose the elaboration of an analysis of the impacts of superintensive and intensive plantations and their due publicity. We propose strengthening public services and social responses in these councils. We propose a better response to the shortage of housing supply, together with the authorities. The project that the NAP presents is demarcated by depth, either in the analysis, or in the social responses we want to give. Together, we can certainly provide the solutions that people and our territory urgently need, without voting on them on an unsustainable path without possible return.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u35	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This afternoon, we are discussing these projects because the intensive and superintensive agricultural activity has occupied the territory uncontrollably, without compatibility with the natural, social, cultural and water goods in force. And it is not I who say it, who says it is the IGAMAOT (Inspection General of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Land Planning ), in its 2018 report, on the water perimeter of Mira and the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina. The report, signed by the Minister for the Environment and by the previous Minister for Agriculture, describes a total far West. We are talking about incompatibilities, discretionary and indefinitions affecting various legal diplomas of environmental care, of spatial planning and even compliance with European directives, in particular as regards the sites of Community interest and the Natura 2000 Network. Now, the Mira water perimeter is now about 1200 ha in stoves and stoves and about 6000 workers. These are the values installed now, which already cause all the problems we are discussing this afternoon. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do not consider that we are already facing a clear limit, where it is necessary to stop to ensure infrastructure and social responses, before moving towards the installation of more stoves, more stoves and more tunnels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u38	Yeah, no! The Government is planning today that it is possible to raise this problem for quadruple. We are talking about 4800 ha (four times 1200 ha) and about 24 000 workers, which, I recall, are almost the same number as the survey carried out by the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) regarding the existence of housing shortages and precariousness. We asked: how? If the problem already has the intensity that is recognized right now, how can it be expected that it will continue to sink? Does the Government not consider that maintaining and increasing this response will have gross repercussions, already visible in infrastructures and social responses, which, as mentioned in this report and at the tops of the Mira Working Group, are visibly undersized? To worsen, in terms of housing, this resolution is even a challenge: it equates the structures in which workers live to "structures complementary to agricultural activity", as if they served to keep agricultural bays, normalizing and permitting the legalization of the invasion of angry housing responses, when it comes to housing workers for intensive agriculture; it legalizes in Mira and scans the door to all intensive and superintensive agriculture in the rest of the country; it does so for 10 years and without any participation by the Ministries of the Presidency or Housing in the Working Group that proposed this solution. It's a face! It is, in fact, a resolution that has been polluted since birth, which makes a lot of sense to the obvious problems and not to think and restructure. In addition, it subalterns the joint work done in the Housing Bases Act. That is why Mr. Prime Minister will come here and say that until 2024 he will respond to housing shortages. This problem and this resolution contradict that statement. For action consistent with the statements made here yesterday, this resolution by the Council of Ministers has to be repealed and only the suspension of the installation of more hectares of intensive agriculture in Mira may, for the time being, halt this gigantic problem. But for this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we need courage. We therefore leave the question here: are the Government, the Socialist Party and this House of the Republic willing to have this determination? It is that all the draft resolutions here under discussion recognize this problem, the question is whether they want to stop it or not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u39	You now have the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Odemira council is today a very poor, impoverished and impoverished region, as a result of a continuous and continuous policy of lack of public investment as a response to the economic and social development needs of the region. Yes, Mrs. Filipa Roseta, do not place yourself out of those that are the responsibilities of the PSD/CDS governments,... [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] ... but also from the PS governments, which assume their share due to the delay in the development of this region. Even so, in recent years, there has been an increase in agricultural production due to the increase in intensive and superintensive crops, mainly of red fruits, related to the growth of areas occupied by greenhouses, tunnels and greenhouses, which is causing major concerns of environmental, landscape and social degradation, which increases a huge growth in the immigration flow of agricultural workers in the region. According to data from the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) that are available, only in Odemira municipality there are more than 6000 registered immigrant workers and more than 5000 in regularization process, many of which are the object of the most vile exploitation and living in subhuman housing conditions. It is expected that the immigration flow in this region will continue to increase and that it will soon be able to double what is currently happening. This, on the one hand, is due to the lack of local labour and, on the other hand, because it is predictable the extension of the perimeter of greenhouses and, consequently, of the intensive and superintensive agricultural production model. As a problem never comes only, nowadays, public services are not dimensioned or fit to respond properly, especially within the framework of the National Health Service, public school, financial distributions, social security, as well as people's security, and do not respond due to lack of human resources. Even last February, the population of São Teotónio, the largest parish of this municipality, expressed their discontent with the health unit, demanding urgent measures by the Government in the face of the shortage of family doctors. And how does the government respond to such complex problems and difficulties? With a resolution of the Council of Ministers, Resolution No. 179/ 2019, filled with a set of casuistic measures, remedies, temporary, to encourage the increase in the area of greenhouses or greenhouses, carried out by some, and accepting violations of environmental legislation and attacks. It is a resolution against the will of the people, without being heard or able to pronounce. It is a resolution that throws the hope of development on the ground, with a view to preserving, valuing and respecting, on the basis of an approach to sustainability and diversity. It is a resolution with immense prohibitions, but only for some, marked by disrespect for those who live there, by their traditions, imposing the law of the strongest and most powerful, forgetting the true ones concerned. Yes, the real stakeholders: agricultural producers, fishermen, local authorities and authorities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of the problems facing the Natural Park of South-West Alentejo and Costa Vice-Ntina — one of the most preserved and natural jewels in Europe — the government is taking decisions without showing us the basis. That is why the CFP resolution project responds to the difficulties that have long been solved: strengthening public health, education, finance, social security and public security services; improving accessibility and other infrastructure; implementing measures of urban and housing solutions that ensure the right to a decent housing under conditional income schemes and supported for immigrant workers; implementing measures to increase control and control over the working conditions of agricultural workers and measures to contain the extension of the perimeter of intensive and superintensive cultures. Therefore, this region and this population can count on the CFP in the fight for the safeguard of those who live there and respect the region and want it to develop, harmonious and sustainable. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u41	The next intervention lies with the Socialist Party, so you have the floor of Mrs Telma Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The priority given to housing by the socialist governments is evident, not only in the programme content of the Socialist Party, but above all in the action of the Government, in promoting public housing policies. It is the public objective of our Prime Minister that we celebrate the 50 years of April, fulfilling April, with condigna housing for all. The Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 did not leave anyone indifferent and it is she who brings us here today. This resolution is a step by the Government to say « present ». Is it perfect? It is not, but it is having the virtue of giving space to thought, discussion and concerted action, for the first time in so many years. But let's go to the facts. First: Mira's watering perimeter is an absolutely transformative resource of the territory. The level of investment at the time would never be to leave everything at the same time. Second: the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina and the area classified as Nature Network are a good of high value, with unique landscapes and species in the world. Thirdly, according to the latest data from the SEF, they inhabit this territory 69 nationalities and for example 33 % of the population of the municipality of Odemira is migrant, mostly young adults. These three facts, looked in isolation, are positive. Otherwise, let us see: economic development through the agricultural sector; territorial space of high environmental value for contemplation and diversification of economic activity; combating human desertification; rejuvenation of the population. These opportunities are there, but, as there is a tension of forces that seem to be opposed, there are rare times when opportunities are overcome by constraints, such as cultural differences, lack of resources in schools, bottlenecking of public services, infrastructures and insufficient and insufficient equipment, waste production, loss of environmental values, lack of water. Most migrants live in urban areas, under poor living conditions, without a space to be called theirs, in a clear condition of scarcity. We are well aware of the consequences these conditions bring to health, to public health, to psychological well-being and even to the decision-making capacities on their own lives. With regard to these constraints, the question is clearly raised here: what is the sustainable burden limit of this system in environmental, agricultural, social and human terms? The government knows the reality. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group knows this reality. I know this reality and I realize that, here, some Members also know this reality. It is a lot to do, a lot of consensus to define, but it would be unfair for the territory not to mention what has already been done: a committee for interculturality has been created; Odemira has a Municipal Plan for Integration of Migrants; huge Portuguese courses have already been taught; there is a CLAIM (local centre for support for integration of migrants) in the territory; and since 2013 huge projects for inclusion have already been developed. Only in Odemira municipality has there already been an investment of about EUR 1 million in community inclusion programmes, divided between municipalities, businesses, local, national and European funding. Yes, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are easy paths, we have no doubt about this: to assume that this is a single and exclusive territory for the preservation and promotion of the environment or, then, to assume that the most important is the installed agricultural economy and its expansion. Quoting Sampaio da Nóvoa, «we need broad views, a thought that does not close at the immediate borders, nor in the illusion of a more-and-perfect future». The broad views that we need, and that the PS Parliamentary Group will not give up, are to find ways of compatibility between agriculture, the preservation of natural values and social and human value and, with this assumption of principles, seek to mobilize actors for the development of collective, balanced and responsible solutions. We therefore recommend that the Mira Project Group develop a more rapid solution in the case of resident migrants in order to integrate them into the framework of 1. o Law. We also recommend that you look at this territory as a laboratory to develop, adapt and pilot public policies, with the necessary speed and agility, through the creation of an integrated technical response office for territorial cohesion. We also recommend that a safeguard response for public services capable of promoting full citizenship be placed on the ground. We know that the communities of Odemira and Aljezur will not give up fighting for the well-being of all, with dignity, nor will they give up preserving their territory in economic and environmental wealth. It is important that Odemira, Aljezur and the Country know that the Socialist Party and its elected members will not give up a territorial development based on cohesion, equity and social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u43	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are talking about a serious social problem, but also environmental problem, which, if not taken, will transform the Natural Park of the Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina into a monumental light of open-air plastic. This is a matter which the Greens have followed very closely, not only by written questions to the Government, whose answers we continue to wait for with all democratic patience, but also with visits to the places and meetings with various associations and also with autarchies. In fact, it was precisely through Odemira's authorship that we learned that the government's option to allow the increase in the greenhouse area was opposed to the solution that was defended by a large majority within the Mira Working Group. Moreover, the Greens also introduced a legislative initiative on the subject, which we did not drag out today for discussion, because we intend to comply with the commitment we made with the movement of citizens of Aljezur and Odemira in defense of the Southwest, in order to promote its agenda when the petition presented by this movement is scheduled for discussion in Plenary. In fact, the situation caused by the multiplication of covered structures, with tunnels, high tunnels and stoves, in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira and, in particular, in the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejano and Costa Vicentina, tends to deteriorate substantially. In view of this set of problems, the Government published the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019. It happens that, contrary to what was expected — i.e. putting a brake on this invasion of plastic and taking care of the living and working conditions of thousands of immigrants working there — this resolution has allowed the area of covered structures to increase. In other words, the resolution has allowed the expansion of agricultural practices that require intensive use of water for water and amazing use of plastics, fertilizers and synthetic pesticides, and which is going through the hiring of immigrant workers under unclear and very little recommended conditions. This resolution has also enabled the installation of real cities of containers to accommodate even more workers within agricultural holdings. In other words, this recommendation, in addition to having contributed to aggravating environmental problems, has, in some ways, legitimized the most cruel exploitation of many immigrant workers, who, in fact, live in truly subhuman conditions, and aggravate the lack of response from public services, which is already absolutely unsustainable today. That is why, in our view, if the Government wants, in fact, to solve the various problems created, it will have to start by revoking the resolution, putting a brake on the expansion of greenhouses, regularizing the working and housing conditions of the current workers and providing public services with the necessary means to respond to the needs of the populations, which, in view of the huge growth of the migratory flow in the region, have become even more fragile.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u45	The next intervention is by Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have heard the various speeches and the debate and, at some point, I will even consider whether or not I should make an intervention, taking into account the speech I heard from the PSD, particularly from Mrs Filipa Roseta, because you put your finger in the wound. I shall quote it: « In this debate and in this reflection, we must consider the country we are and the country we want to be».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u47	Learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u48	This debate and this situation of Odemira and Aljezur have in some way revealed a misery that exists in the country and the treatment of situations that should not, nor could, occur in the 21st century. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] No, it's not, sir! This process is not today. We didn't know that today. We know - at least since 2015. Since 2015 we have this structuring! Since 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020! [[PS and PCP protests.]] What did the Socialist Party do? Oh, my God! He created committees, created working groups and now the last major measure proposed by the Socialist Party is: «We will now have another office». One more cabinet! You know what you need, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It is not from offices, commissions or working groups. There must be solutions, solutions to solve the housing problem and the problems that exist there, also, of public services and the absence of them. And you, the Socialist Party, are upset here and, as far as you can see, also in the municipal chamber itself, because the author is yours and says that there are about 10,000 immigrants, that there is no solution, that the government invents everything and something else, but concrete solutions, they don't even appear. I must say that the situation is alarming and those who say it are not just the political parties, it is not only the municipal chamber, the municipal assembly or the Assembly of the Republic. Just look at the movements of the citizens. What do the citizens' movements say? They say, for example, that there are degraded houses to be rented to immigrants and that it is not even possible to imagine the precariousness in which they live — I repeat, the precariousness in which they live! I also quote the President of the Diocesan Caritas de Beja : « What we are doing to immigrants and other people who lack support, especially food, ends up being a drop of water in the ocean». This, in order to have a sense of the dimension of this problem. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Therefore, it is not with conversation, with working groups, with commissions, or whatever. There must be solutions, concrete solutions. It is time for them to appear and cannot the Socialist Party, purely and simply walk, year after year, pretending that it is nothing with it, creating working groups, reflections and you know what else is there. Mrs. Members, to see if, once and for all, the solutions appear, whether at housing level, or at the level of public services that are lacking, precisely in those two councils and in that district. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u49	Mr João Dias of the CFP also spoke for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the few seconds that I have left, I cannot fail to make an assessment of the draft resolution submitted by the PS. This draft resolution has at least two virtues, one of them being to recognize the mistakes that the Council of Ministers resolution has and closes in itself. In fact, it recognises these mistakes and presents up to a few proposals for their solution. In any case, it also reveals the disarticulation that exists between the PS Parliamentary Group and the Government itself, until it has proposed the creation of a technical office. Now, if the resolution of the Council of Ministers has already set up a working group, without giving it the conditions to do the work required of it, does the PS now propose a technical office? Oh, my God! And what does it have to do with the response to housing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u51	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u52	I will finish, Mr. President. It proposes a transitional response to safeguard public services and a response to normalisation of the regular provision of public services. What about agriculture? What future for agriculture in that region? What about the future of public services? What future for the quality of life of those people?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u53	The floor is also for a second speech, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: of the discussion we have had, it is clear that there is a specific problem in the Perimeter de Rega do Mira and that, in addition to responding to the problems that are at present on the spot, we must respond to those who may come to suffer. This response can only pass through a moratorium on the installation of intensive and superintensive agriculture in the Mira River Perimeter. Of course! The moratorium must be made and the resolution of the Council of Ministers must be repealed, because it has clearly not been done involving all actors in this area, it does not take into account the problems currently in the territory which need to be resolved, and not to think about the problem that could be tackled, with the quadruple of people and work in that place. in this sense, it seems to us that our draft resolution has come to bring answers, stopping to think, to see what country we really want to be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u55	Mr Nelson Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said recently, we are again discussing this type of agricultural holdings and, once again, the social impacts that it causes. We speak not only of the already disastrous environmental impacts, but also of the little diversification of cultures that those lands provide. To find concrete housing solutions, which we all agree are necessary, we are talking about moving forward through the natural park inside, without having any respect, without taking any account of the very importance that our natural parks have, either for the climate or for the temperatures, or for the quality of life of those populations. The project presented by the PSD has, in fact, some entirely worthy concerns, but we cannot, in order to find these solutions, be failing the future generations of those populations. This is not how we will be able to improve our country. in this part, I agree with the Member of the CDS. In fact, we have to think about the country we want. But is the country we want to have really a country where the air is breathable, where the temperature is unbearable and in which there is nothing for our people to eat? Oh, my God! Is it going back to the new state's hunger situation? Don't count on PAN for that. Our draft resolution goes beyond that, although others also have some merit. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u57	Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to decide! On the one hand, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is often accused of thinking that it gives « colloquium » to the Government. [[PSD laughter.]] But when we have an opinion which is marked and which is not demarcated, it is marked but not demarcated! — of the Government, we are not in a joint position! Make up your mind, Mr. Deputy! Clearly, what is happening is coherence in the discussion. It is from whom you know reality, from whom you know how reality is happening. What I have said — and I know that you have listened to me — was the following: what is important right now is the compatibility of all these values. That is what we want to happen, as you want it to happen. I think Odemira and Aljezur today feel more worthy of the discussion here and of the opportunity that we all have to be able to do more and better for that territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u59	You now have the floor for the closure of this point, Mr Cristovão Norte, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is unanimous that it is inconceivable that we continue to ignore the serious problems and imbalances that make one feel in the southwest Alentejano and the Costa Vicentina. There is a brutal increase in the population, which has doubled in three years, there is no strengthening of public services, health, education, security forces and social security. It is even unbelievable that the government, although there was a study of a working group about the Mira's Perimeter, in 2018, in which the failure of public services was described, did nothing about this demographic explosion, and above all what it did, did it incompletely. The only decision that the Government has taken was a moratorium for a period of 10 years on dwelling in containers, which cannot be adequate or consistent and which does not comply with the general rules on the subject, without any prospect of a definitive urban solution. We do not wish for a social breakdown. We don't want people living in situations we don't want for any of us, nor do we want a feeling of revolt and intolerance against those who come to work for agricultural holdings, because the state has done nothing... [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] ...so that the citizens of these territories do not feel that their life has become infernal, that they are ostracized and that there are no solutions to the new problems they face. We have to deal with the problems. We need to know that there is a water resource management problem, a dramatic problem that must shape our options for the future. We need to know that we need sustainable growth and, at the same time, we need to know how to share it with what we have always assumed to be predominant: to allow those territories to be of hope, not allowing them to be sacked from the population, but to be territories in which it is possible to coordinate these various dimensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u61	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u62	Unfortunately, the Government — that is why the Assembly of the Republic decided to recommend to the Government what we are proposing — has done nothing about the matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u63	We will move on to the third point of our agenda today, which is the discussion of Lein.o 75 / XIV / 1 Projects. a — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of the social protection of workers in the shift and night work regime ( Sixteenth amendment to the Labour Code ), 17 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, 246 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Change the Labour Code and the General Labour Law in Public Functions, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime, 252 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensuring the strengthening of workers' rights in the shift and night work arrangements ( Alteration to the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions) and 542 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work arrangements (Other Labour Code and General Public Service Labour Law). To initiate this debate and present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal there are more than 800 000 people working for shifts or night work, according to INE data ( National Institute of Statistics ), and it is a value that has not stopped increasing. Night and shift work covers vast areas of our economy. The production, transport and distribution of energy, health, distribution of water or food, telecommunications, security, people, logistics chain and goods, the airport sector, transport, industrial production and also trade and the functioning of commercial spaces. The shiftwork actually affects about 16% of the total population employed. In recent years, there has been a liberalisation of working hours, leading, for example, to the fact that most commercial establishments operate until later and open to Sunday. In Portugal, the trivialisation of authorisations for continuous work has allowed for a very limited expansion of work arrangements that go through increasingly extended hours. This dynamic — let us not ignore — involves high costs for workers, increased biological and psychological difficulties, particularly at the level of the sleep/wake cycle, chronic fatigue, metabolic problems and the incidence of a wide range of diseases that have been proven by scientific studies. It also means interference in family life and social life, with outdated hours between the worker, his children, his family, his friends and also in the workplace itself, with more accidents at work, absenteeism, decreased working capacity and early aging. Negotiation and collective bargaining are certainly a privileged space to regulate these matters, but the law, the Labour Code, cannot fail to define minimum rules and protection standards for these workers and workers. That is the concern that the Left Block has persistently raised in this Parliament. In the discussion of the State budget for 2020, several proposals were put forward, but the Government rejected this and other amendments to the labour law. However, a standard agreed with the Left Block for 2020 was entered in the Budget, which is transcribed in Article 250. the 2020 budget, which read as follows : « n. 1 : in 2020, the Government presents a study on the extent, characteristics and impact of shiftwork in Portugal, with a view to strengthening the social protection of these workers ». It's in the Budget. It states in paragraph 2 of that Article: "the study referred to in the previous paragraph shall include in particular the criteria for the need for continuous work, as well as the supervision of the orders which determine it, the rest times between shifts and shift changes, and also the mechanisms for reconciling with family and personal life, in particular for families with minor children." And here I end the quote of the budget article. So far, shift workers have not seen any concrete improvement, nor any concrete change resulting from this commitment, and we, Members of the Assembly of the Republic, also do not know any study, as was foreseen in that commitment. For our part, we do not forget this subject, nor these 800 000 workers, and we will not cease to insist on the urgency of these answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u66	With this schedule, the Block intends to formally reopen this debate in Parliament. In the previous legislation, we presented a draft law on shiftwork, to which other bills were joined, and a working group was established within the framework of the Committee on Labour, which made dozens of hearings, and at the end of these hearings there was a general recognition of the need to improve the normative framework of this form of work organization. However, contrary to the recognised needs, the left-wing proposals have finally been dropped. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we have a new opportunity to confer dignity on the work carried out by night workers and shift workers, clarifying the concept of shiftwork and night work, defining rules that allow greater synchronisation with social life; that value the participation of these workers; that guarantee a minimum period of rest of 24 hours between shift shifts and, at least, two weekends of rest every six weeks; that define 35 hours as maximum working hours for those who have these work arrangements; that extend access to medical examinations and health care; that confer the right to one more working day per two years of work per shift; that define pay increases for shift work and that recognize access to reform with a reduction of two months for each year of work per shift or night. The appeal we make today is that Parliament does not ignore the importance of this issue, that Parliament recognises justice, and even urgency, of these proposals that we present today and that Parliament does not waste this opportunity to make them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u67	To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the day-to-day of hundreds of thousands of workers in our country is marked by irregular hours and the very exhausting pace of shift work and night work. More than 16 % of workers work in shifts, corresponding to about 835 000 workers, of which more than 423 000 are women. In 2009 there would be more than 440 000 workers working in shifts; in 10 years this number almost doubled. Almost 11 % of workers work at night. They are workers in contraception; they are mothers and parents who are not with their children, who leave home with their children still sleeping and who arrive when they are laid; they are the parties and the many activities of the children who do not leave because the shift does not leave; they are weekends that there are not; they are mothers, parents and children who do not have time to live together; they are children who grow up deprived of the rest time, leisure time, families that are built in the intervals of shifts. To this familiar reality add the health consequences, deeply negative of this work, for each of the workers working in shifts or at night hours: changes in circadian rhythm, sleep disturbances, increased risk of other physical or psychological problems. It is clear that day work is suitable for human beings and night work and for shifts, in general, causes serious damage to workers, with studies pointing to the increased risk of women working at night to develop breast cancer. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, eight hours of work, eight hours of rest, eight hours of leisure, family life and culture. A civilizational advance that the struggle of workers has won, a historic milestone for the construction of a more just and socially healthy society. The capital responded by resorting to several archilosous instruments to turn and remove the law, transforming the entire normal working period into effective working time, eliminating pauses, inventing the most diverse flexibilitys, thus increasing the intensity and working rhythms. The competitiveness cycle has produced successive changes to labour law which have always meant degradation of labour rights: adaptability, individual and group hourly banks, concentrated times and other concepts imposed which again have nothing, because they translate and recover old ideas of dehumanization of work. The working hours, their fixing and compliance, respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions, the link with family, personal and professional life continue today, for the worst reasons, to take on a huge deal. Alongside the wages, the hours of work continue to be the target of the greatest attacks by the employers, and also of the firmest and bravest struggles and demands carried out by the workers. Night work and shift work must be an effective exceptionality in law and practice. Workers working at night or in shifts must be duly compensated for the increased effort that this type of work means, and the harsh characteristics of this work regime should be recognised. Thus, without prejudice to collective bargaining provisions which may be more favourable, the CFP, with this initiative, proposes the limitation of night and shift work to technical and socially justified situations; the establishment of night work starting at 20 hours and ending at 7 hours in the morning; the prevention of the application of mechanisms for the deregulation of working hours; the limitation of the use of shift systems three by eight, establishing the weekly reduction of working hours; short cycles for the night team and more than one rest time for night workers; periodicity in the enjoyment of working days, including Saturdays and Sundays; the right to one additional holiday day for every three years of night work or for shifts; a minimum amount of pension allowance per shift of 25 % and right to shift and night allowances in situations where the worker works at night and on shifts; the right to advance the age of retirement and bonus in the calculation of the pension; The strengthening of the rights of these workers, the recognition of the harsh characteristics of this work regime and the due and fair compensation to all workers who work on these conditions day after day, months followed, years followed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u69	For the NAP, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current model of society normalizes forms of life that require that we always be on the move and always linked. It is precisely this standardization that the NAP demarcates and understands that there is a lot of way to make reconciliation between personal life, leisure, work and other forms of being. But the current and predominant models of society have led to a significant increase in shiftwork in our country. In addition, in just 8 years, the number of shift workers increased 31% and at the end of last year there were around 835 000 workers and workers in this scheme, therefore 17% of the population employed in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the supermarket we found shift workers and very likely it was a shift worker who produced what we bought. In the production of the means of transport we use are workers per shift. In general stores is a shift worker who assists us. For those who ordered dinner last night, CL will be delivered to you by a shift worker. Health professionals and institutions that make social intervention and are in line with the fight against the health crisis also work, many of them, by shifts, as well as the professionals of call center, and so many others. Many of these people work within the applicable legal framework, others outside it and therefore there is much work to be done. It is necessary to clarify concepts, it is necessary to define rules. But all these workers and workers have in fact common aspects: be low wages, be it work vulnerability, be it time-disregulation, be it the impossibility of reconciling personal life with work life, conditioning access to leisure, be the obstacles to reconciliation with a family life, be the various health problems, ranging from sleep problems or even food, to cardiovascular problems or psychosocial diseases. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not fail to remember in this debate that many of the workers who have been in the front line — and who are still standing — who have not stopped and who have taken risks so that our country can cope with the health crisis are shift workers. It is more than time to recognise these professionals their importance, it is more than time to value and recognize their rights, and to guarantee them better working conditions. That is why the NAP presents itself in this debate with a package of measures that will make the difference in the lives of workers and shift workers in our country, whether they are from the public sector or the private sector. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential that we combat work by abusive shifts, so we propose that this mode of work can only occur in properly clarified, justified and substantiated situations. It is essential to combat the time deregulation that reaches these workers and therefore we propose a maximum of the duration of each shift and a maximum of consecutive work. It is essential to guarantee the right to rest for these workers and therefore we propose that a day of rest be granted in the shift change and two full weekends of rest every six consecutive weeks. It is essential to ensure wage dignity and therefore to consider a substantial increase in this type of work. It is essential to mitigate the risks to the health of this work model and therefore bring more guarantees here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u71	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. in this set of proposals, we do not forget the night workers who are obviously subject to difficult working conditions. So the appeal we make to the ladies and gentlemen. Members can indeed consider these proposals, finally recognizing the most basic rights to these workers, finally recognizing the work they are doing in Portugal. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u73	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about night work and shift work is to talk about an important matter, not only because shift work currently covers about 17 % of the population employed, but also because it is a reality whose trend clearly indicates a significant increase in the number of people working in that scheme. In fact, more and more people are working on shifts, in some cases because the very objective requirements of living in society so force it—is the case of people working in hospitals or even security forces— whereas in other cases these requirements result in a way of production that requires a continuous production process. And there are still cases that are the result of political options. I am referring, for example, to the ability given to the large commercial areas to liberalise working hours and, consequently, to working hours, working until later and, above all, with the possibility of opening on Sunday. These decisions have not only made it more difficult for local trade, small trade, with serious consequences on our food dependence and our production, as they have still given great impetus to the number of people working in shifts. This situation carries with it serious consequences, from the point of view of the family life of these workers, but not only. In fact, the studies indicate very clearly that shiftwork, especially when involving night or weekend periods, causes additional problems for workers, both biologically and psychologically or familyly. As we know, in addition to being a heavier job, shiftwork requires much more wear and, in our view, the current legislative framework does not respond to the needs of these workers. In view of this framework, the Assembly of the Republic must pay attention, especially when we know that the various amendments to labour legislation have as their main objective the protection of those who work and weaken the instruments where this matter could be dealt with, from the outset of collective bargaining. In fact, the deplorable imposition of rules that have weakened and even blocked collective bargaining has intentionally led to the weakening of trade unions' negotiating capacity and also sought to individualize labour relations. Moreover, the individualization of labour relations, which naturally fosters precariousness, is very marked at the level of shiftwork, with serious damage to those who work. It is therefore necessary to take legislative measures to minimize the effects on shiftwork and nightwork. In particular, concepts need to be clarified, especially the concept of shiftwork and the concept of nightwork. It is necessary to restore the fixing of night work between 20 hours and 7 hours the following day. It is necessary to extend access to medical examinations and health care to these workers. It is necessary to distance the application of the deregulation mechanism from working hours in the case of night work and shift work. It is necessary to recognise, on a legal basis, shift or night work as a particularly painful and exhausting activity and to be subsidized for the purposes of early retirement age and for the formation of their pension, also ensuring that additional time also counts for early retirement age. There are therefore many problems that demand a response and that is the objective of this legislative initiative which The Greens are now presenting: to ensure the strengthening of the rights of workers by shift and night, like other initiatives by other political forces, which are also under discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u75	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is estimated that in Portugal more than 800 000 people work in shifts, a number that has been increasing. However, this is one of the most harmful forms of work organization, with serious consequences for workers, both at the level of their health and well-being — physical and psychic — or at the level of difficulties that create in reconciling their professional life with their personal and family life, through the deregulation of schedules. It also poses security problems, with increasing the likelihood of errors and accidents, and contributes to the reduction of productivity and efficiency of workers and an increase in absenteeism. For all this, we present today a bill aimed at mitigating, compensating or preventing the increased penocity resulting from shiftwork and night work, which provides for the reduction of working hours, strengthening the health and safety system at work, requiring the implementation of strategies for intervention and prevention of psychosocial risks, the increase of vacation days and the payment of financial compensation. We call for the approval of this and the other projects under discussion, because they are a fundamental step in creating decent working conditions for these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u77	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals presented here today are intended to confer on shift workers and night workers conditions that allow for greater reconciliation of professional life with family life and, in general, more rights, because they are recognized as work with an increased requirement, which results in greater stress for workers, with the health impacts that this implies. They are worthy objectives, since it is undeniable that this paradigm of labor performance in Portugal presents serious problems at the level of wear and mental health. However, if we do not diverge in the diagnosis, we certainly differ in the therapy these proposals prescribe. It is that, if there is a problem in the provision of general health care—and mental health in particular—in our country, the solution that the Liberal Initiative advocates goes through the introduction of effective freedom of choice by people, in a universal and competitive health system. If there are work problems in our country, the solution certainly does not go through harsh measures that ignore the immediate difficulties of those who create jobs and wealth, to such wealth that allows Portugal to get closer to the work models of the most developed countries. [[PCP protests.]] These proposals do not only walk towards creating jobs and wealth as they turn away from it. They completely ignore the economic and business impacts of adapting working hours and labour costs which in the long term will result in less employment and worse employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u79	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u80	Left parties cannot come here, on the second, fourth and sixth, to pretend to be very concerned about micro, small and medium-sized businesses and in the other days to show a total ignorance of their problems. It is the typical ignorance of those who never created a job or had to pay a salary. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u81	Let's move on to PSD intervention. Before giving the floor to Mrs Carla Barros, I wanted to say that I now realized that I have not complied with the rule, in which we all sat, with all the interventions that are not in the first row being made with a mask. I know that I have already opened this precedent and that they can claim it, but I would like to ask that, as far as possible, they accept this practice of those who speak from the back lines to do so with a mask, and the Bureau was penitentiated for not having clearly established it in the previous interventions. Now, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the issue of strengthening the rights and social protection of workers by shift and night work, as a result of these four initiatives, the ENP, the CFP, the Left Block and the NAP. We also have the initiative of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues and, allow me to tell you, Mrs Deputies, that your initiative has not yet entered into public consultation, so I have already left this alert. In the global context, these initiatives, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have had the opportunity to hear, wish more holidays for these workers, less hours of work weekly, early retirement age, increase in worker pay and increase in the contributions paid to the State by the entities that have this work organisation scheme. Let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this initiative — and know-how — will not be an initiative in which many external entities have participated in the period of public assessment. However, we would like to highlight here the National Trade Union for Banking Frameworks and Techniques, which, with regard to this initiative, said that overall the legislation that is currently in force is good legislation, so there is no need for change, leaving, however, the safeguard so that we can, in this Parliament, contribute more and more to the protection of parenthood. On the opinion of the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), as it was already expected, it is intended that all these amendments which are proposed today may be approved by this Parliament. So, nothing again. As regards the position which the Socialist Party has had on this matter, and which Mr Soeiro has also pointed out, we have, of course, heard here, that it was with the agreement of the Left Block — I thought that the formal and tacit agreements had been in the past legislature but it seems that they continue — that the Socialist Party had approved Article 250. the, where it is promised to the Portuguese, in the State Budget this year, in force, that would be conducted a study on the impact of shiftwork and nightwork in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u84	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of the year, we do not know the development or completion of this study.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u85	He must be in the drawer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u86	Meanwhile, we are discussing the next State Budget and we know nothing. So it is not only the Socialist Party's fault, I regret to say to you, Mr Soeiro — who is also a proposer and has been a fervent follower of these matters — that is also your fault.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u88	The blame is also for the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u90	... of the PCP, the ENP and the NAP, which have supported this government in the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u91	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we remain here in spirit and hope, a great hope in what is happening at the moment in social dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u92	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u93	Social consultation is currently examining the Green Paper on the Future of Work and we hope that this Book, which is being analyzed and where these matters of night work and shift work are included, can come out of decisions, proposals. I have no doubt that it will be fair, fair proposals for both companies and workers. Therefore, our hope and our spirit is precisely in what will come out of this analysis of social dialogue. Then, and because we are experiencing pandemic times, we cannot fail to mention one of the most recent issues, which is the subject of the shift from working hours to working hours for workers and companies to face this pandemic period, which has been the target of many criticisms by all partners, when the government places to the consideration of the social partners the appreciation of the proposals of the decree-law. We know that these regimes are exceptional and transitional, but, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary that the legislation that goes to the ground at this time, which is a particular time, be a law that offers no doubt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u95	... it is necessary to be clear legislation, so that conflicts do not arise, because what we want is that there are no conflicts of understanding in the legislation that the government is going out here, until the aim of everyone is to be able to recover the country, all together, with better health, without ever forgetting that there are workers in particular vulnerability—and I finish, Mr President, because I already know that I will end — as is the case for pregnant women, disabled workers, minor workers, those workers who are currently facing the pandemic at their workplace and whose health situation is not the best. We therefore appeal that we should not forget these workers in particular. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u96	Mrs Carla Barros, I welcome you for your ability to anticipate the words of the Bureau, which would be exactly those, as you said. So we're perfectly in tune. in this sense, and in the same spirit, has the floor, for an intervention, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament is again discussing matters relating to shiftwork and nightwork, and that is worthy. We do not agree with what is proposed — it will not be surprising — but we think it is important for this Parliament to discuss issues relating to shiftwork and nightwork, including issues related to the specificity of wear, whether physical or psychological, or that have to do with, for example, reconciling work with parenthood. This discussion in balanced terms is worthwhile, but unilaterally done does not bring anything new, because it is unilateral not only in the proposals but also in the analysis. We have heard here some of the proposing parties say, for example, that it has substantially increased shiftwork in recent years. It is true, but those who hear them think that the shift work that you are talking about has replaced the work done in normal hours, when that is not what happens. It is important to realize that the fact that the Portuguese economy has grown in recent years has led some sectors of activity, including the industrial sector, to add production, capture more orders and export more. In many cases, this has obviously involved the creation of another shift and the employment of more people. It is good that we look at both sides, because the shift that was created, often in many industries, did not mean that people who worked during the daytime went to work at nighttime and that people who worked with fixed hours went to work on shifts, it means that there are more people employed, that there are more people receiving a salary at the end of the month. So we have to start from this reality and realize that it is not destroying these new jobs that we are going to help people. This must therefore be done in social consultation, in conciliation between those who create these jobs and those who are dedicated to them and, of course, deserve the acceptance of their concerns relative to, for example, physical and psychological wear or parenthood, but always with this notion. I conclude by saying the following: even this week, the Banco de Portugal has lowered its expectations for unemployment. This is great news, but it has to do with essentially two factors: with the ability that workers have to fight for the maintenance of their jobs and the commitment that they also have to recognize to employers because, in distressing situations of treasury, they have not gone the easier way to reduce staff. If we realize that this balance is the solution for us to actually have more and more jobs and with more quality, we are not destroying. We must realize that this is not done unilaterally but at the centre of consultation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u98	The next intervention is for Mr Nuno Sá of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of the work regulation of the night and shift work system is, of course, facing us with political options. I want to start by saying that the Socialist Party has been and will always be on the side of valuing decent work and with rights for a better society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u100	Unfortunately, right-wing governance, from 2011 to 2015... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u101	I know you don't like to hear, but we're still recovering from the evils the PSD and CDS have done in the world of work! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The governance of the right advanced with a brutal process of deregulation and individualization of labour relations in Portugal, crushing collective bargaining. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD and CDS-PP produced a serious imbalance in labour relations, resulting in more precariousness, inequality and impoverishment in Portugal. This to say... [[PSD protests.]] Mr. President, I ask for the conditions to be able to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u102	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u103	This to say what? To say that it is fair to mention in this debate that the Government of the Socialist Party has reversed this cycle of deregulation and impoverishment and that it has also fulfilled with the parties on our left, with commitments to recover workers' rights, with the return of income, with the dynamisation of collective bargaining and with the improvement of working conditions. We are committed to continuing to pursue this path and to promote a fair labour market, which promotes economic growth, but which is also a source of income, career and quality of life for Portuguese workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We defend an inclusive framework of work, which contributes to a social model that allows people access to welfare standards that facilitate the development and achievement of their professional goals, as well as staff and family. Having said this, the legal regime of night work and shifts deserves all attention and the virtualities of these bills are recognized by stressing the complexity of this work relationship. By the number of workers covered, by their economic relevance and by the personal and family effects it generates, night and shift work is one of the atypical forms of work that the PS has always cared for with special care. I should like to say here that we have introduced into the Labour Code the application of the principle of the most favourable treatment, specific labour standards of compensatory rights for night and shift workers, as well as the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work, which are specific, which are contained in the Labour Code and which apply to the protection of the rights and working conditions of these workers. And it was the Socialist Party that did so, in the framework of standardization and revision of the Labour Code. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Nevertheless, we are aware that we face new questions and challenges, but this should not lead us to act on occasion... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u104	... and adopt inopportunity measures, inadequate, without financial support, without economic viability and ignoring social consultation, all the more so that many of these projects represent structural changes of enormous financial impact, regulating night and shift work, which is a matter par excellence of collective bargaining. The Socialist Party wants the best solutions. Our ambition is to achieve the best work regime. How do you do that? There is a process of reflection and debate, with scope and plurality, involving the social partners from the outset. The PSD Member said that social dialogue is currently discussing this and other matters, with a view to the best answers for the job review. It is true, but the one who gave this impetus to social dialogue, who values collective bargaining, is precisely the Government of the Socialist Party, who has achieved social agreements in the past and who, as we all know, has now presented the Green Paper on the Future of Work in Portugal, which is motivating this discussion on its own site, in the context of social dialogue. [[Protests by PSD Members Carla Barros and Clara Marques Mendes.]] I would also like to say that the year 2020 has not yet ended and that in fact there is this rule in the State Budget to present a study on the impact of shiftwork. The year 2020 has not ended, it is a typical year, because of the pandemic and in terms of conditions for the production of documents and meetings, but we are sure that, in the context of this discussion that is being held, the Green Paper on the Future of Work and this study will be present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u105	Mr President, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u106	I will finish, Mr. President. Thus, the Government of the Socialist Party is making this reflection in the Standing Committee on Social Concertation, through the Green Paper on the Future of Work. For the PS, it is within this extended, pluralized and systematic process of hearing and social dialogue that should be drawn up and reassessed the night and shift work regime in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u107	For a second intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP, who still has time, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about shift and night work, of course, we are talking about several sectors of our society, about some where this work regime is essential and others who only adopt it to ensure greater accumulation of profit in the shortest possible time - this is also what we are talking about here. As far as job creation is concerned, I would just like to leave here a comment on what was said by the large distribution at the opening of hypermarkets to Sunday, and which is far from the truth, because large-scale workers have, indeed, an increase in working hours and the imposition of a time bank. It is important to remember this when we talk about job creation. With regard to all the words that have been said here by the various parliamentary groups, of appreciation, of effort and recognition of the characteristics of penosity of this work and the need to guarantee more rights for these workers, what is the point: where will this be translated into practice?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u109	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u110	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. How will these parliamentary groups stand in relation to these concrete proposals, in relation to the proposal which the CFP brings here, to strengthen the rights of workers working in shifts and at night hours? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u111	To close this item on the agenda, you have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from the right-wing benches we naturally expected opposition to these projects and the proposals they brought, but wanted to regret the intervention of the Socialist Party. Mr Nuno Sá classified these proposals as 'unsuitable and inadequate'. I ask what are the inappropriate and inadequate proposals. Define rules that allow for greater synchronisation with social life? Valuing the participation of workers in the definition of shift scales? To guarantee a minimum rest period when there is a change of time? Guarantee a minimum number of weekends? Widen access to medical examinations? Do you recognize the penosity of this form of organization of work for access to reform? What are the inappropriate and inadequate proposals that have been presented here today? The second argument of the Socialist Party against the proposals was that they had no financial support. On what basis do you say that, Mr? Have you seen, by any chance, that the left block bill provides for an increase in the contribution of employers to social security, precisely to ensure the financing and sustainability of the system, by financing the proposals we proposed? The Socialist Party may be against, but in saying that these are proposals without financial support, Mr President, you will then bring us your accounts here! Thirdly, he said that these proposals were submitted without any reflection, debate and discussion in social dialogue. I believe, Mr President, that it is wrong to devalue about two years'operation of a working group on shifts that we have done in the Assembly of the Republic. We've heard dozens of entities! We did not hear only the unions and representatives of employers, we also heard the Order of Psychologists, the Order of Doctors, many committees of workers, academics, who brought us studies, all parties and all, without exception, at the end of these hearings, recognized that there was a need for greater regulation and protection for shift workers. So what we should be discussing was how we would implement them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u113	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u114	Even on the reflection and debate, Member of Parliament, if there is any entity that is currently missing from these workers is the Government, which has not yet submitted the study. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u115	We thus conclude this third point and move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the debate of draft resolution No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. For the presentation of this initiative, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general value of wages and the increase in national minimum wage are fundamental factors to improve the living conditions of workers, to combat the recession, to stimulate the internal market, to develop the country. The reality of our country continues to be marked by enormous social inequalities and situations of poverty, which are evidenced and accentuated in view of the current context and the absence of measures that solve the structural problems the country faces. Currently, more than half of the national wealth will be in the hands of a handful of people. The latest Survey on Living and Income Conditions, conducted by INE in 2019, found that in 2018 about 17, 2 % of people were at risk of poverty, which means that their monthly income is not sufficient for basic family expenses. The minimum national wage in Portugal is 25, 6 % according to data from the Government of September. More than 1 million and 250,000 men and women take home at the end of the month, about 565 € liquid. They don't live, they survive. Many of these workers are those of the so-called "essential services" in the current context, who received applause and praise but who, at the end of the month, continue to take 565 euros liquid home. Almost 11 % of workers are in poverty. They are concrete and revealing figures and realities of deep injustice in the distribution of wealth in our country. over the years, the national minimum wage has been profoundly devalued by successive governments, with updates below the increase in average incomes and do not rest the purchasing power lost by workers over several years. Only in January 2019, the national minimum wage reached the value of 600 €, this year of €635 — an increase that is inseparable from the struggle of workers, which the CFP greatly values, but which remains insufficient for the replacement of purchasing power and to face the cost of living. Low wages continue to be a political option and a prevailing reality in the country, setting up one of the main causes of severe social inequalities and poverty situations. It is therefore a national emergency that the general increase in wages and, in particular, the national minimum wage, to raise the living conditions of workers, but also to make the internal market more dynamic, to increase contributions to social security, to ensure the right of so many young people who earn the minimum wage to have children, to form families, to emancipate themselves and to build their lives, and to ensure more justice in the distribution of income. Many times, arguments are put forward not to increase the national minimum wage based on an idea of the weight of remuneration in the company cost structure and its supposed negative effect on competitiveness. However, it should be noted in this respect that remuneration has a weight of around 18 % in the cost structure of companies, far below a set of other costs, such as energy, fuel, insurance or credit. It should also be borne in mind that this set of costs is subject to the maximum profit strategy of a set of companies and sectors which, after privatised, have severely penalized the national economy, especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the creation and recognition of the right to a national minimum wage was one of the most important achievements of the April Revolution and the democratic regime. At present, it has been a very significant improvement in the living conditions of workers. However, the national minimum wage has not accompanied the increase in cost of living and has been profoundly devalued. The day-to-day lives of workers, the difficulties they face, the accounts they have little to receive are self-evident of the urgency of the general value of wages and the increase of the national minimum wage. Adding the above data, there is a complete picture of the deep injustice in the distribution of wealth, in a process, which has been dynamized by several governments, of concentration of wealth in the hands of half a dozen. It is urgent to reverse this process of injustice, poverty and exacerbation of exploitation. And if it is true that the exploitation of work and of workers, that the rise in their living conditions is inseparable from the fight against unregulated hours, precariousness and guarantee of employment with rights, from the reduction of working hours, from the serious standards of labour law, from the creation of employment with rights, it is also true that the general value of wages through collective bargaining, which is a fundamental tool for ensuring better distribution of wealth and the exploitation of workers' wages and whose expiry is urgently eliminated, or through the exploitation of careers, the guarantee of progress, the revision of the single remuneration table, in the case of employees of the Public Administration, if all is true, the increase of the national minimum wage is an indispensable instrument for improving the living conditions of hundreds of thousands of workers. The PCP proposal advocates a national minimum wage target in the €850 to be reached in the shortest time. It is the workers who create the wealth of our country. It is the strength of your work that generates wealth. There is no developed country without valued workers. The appreciation of work, workers, the general increase in wages and the increase in national minimum wage for the €850 are decisive factors for a path of progress and social justice. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u117	I now give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by welcoming, of course, the CFP for bringing about such important debate. However, we must not forget that this issue lies in a deeper problem, which is that the Portuguese gain, on average, less than half that which the citizens of the European Union gain. On average, each Portuguese has to work almost three years to have similar incomes, for example, to those that a German citizen earns in just one year. This is quite demonstrative of the low wages practised in Portugal and the need to make progress towards its valuation. In the discussion on wage increases, including in the 2020 State Budget, the NAP from the very first moment it claims a minimum wage of at least €800 at the end of the Legislature and a valuation of average wages, also by tax. In the budget this year, the increase in the minimum wage was clearly low, especially in a context where a budgetary surplus was envisaged, which at the time deserved fair criticism of the government. However, we are aware that the health crisis of COVID-19 and its impact on companies has forced a readjustment of the timetable of the targets on the table to the minimum wage. Therefore, we also understand that the increase in the minimum wage proposed by the Government for this year has to be lower to allow a balance with the current crisis context, but that does not mean that this should not be a significant increase in workers' lives and with real impact. Moreover, it is said that it is also a myth that the increase in the minimum wage will contribute to giving a final slaughter in companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the costs of wages and staff in Portugal represent only 16 % of the total costs of non-financial enterprises in the private sector, i.e. this is not the determining factor for the viability of Portuguese business fabric or not. Moreover, if we admit that the increase in the minimum wage will be close to €35, the maximum limit allowed by the Government will lead to an increase of only 0, 12 % of the total costs of companies. So let us be serious and true in this debate: are these 0, 12 % actually going to question the viability of companies, when there are also other tools that the government can and should put in place to help them? And, on this occasion, we cannot fail to send here a warning to the PS and to the left to the middle class, which, year after year, has been forgotten, either because there was a deficit, either because we wanted the deficit zero or because we wanted a budget surplus. Budget after Budgeting, the average wage has also been stagnated. For this reason, the NAP argues that a signal must also be given to the middle Portuguese class and to revise the intermediate steps of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) so that, by tax, and without any interference in the private management of companies, an increase in income is promoted to these persons who have been subsequently forgotten. In the 2020 budget, for example, we proposed this amendment, however it was plunged with the abstention of the PSD and the CDS and with the vote against the arrival, the PS, the PCP and the Left Block. in this Budget, we will insist. The calculation of the budgetary costs of the measure is made: see, for example, EUR 206 million. And, in the view of the NAP, if the PS and the Government really want to compensate for this same increase in expenditure that can be promoted either in the renegotiation of PPPs (public-private partnerships ), which last year cost the country EUR 1160 million, for example in the taxation of carbon, for the purpose of tax exemptions on polluting products, which cost taxpayers more than EUR 500 million per year, or the carbon taxation of intensive livestock, which could pay EUR 179 million to the country and to public coffers, or even the non-injection of more public money in the Novo Banco, which we well know last year alone cost us EUR 850 million. It seems to us, therefore, that in this State budget, doubt will be whether, in fact, the government and the PS will continue to hold onto the established interests or finally give their hands to those who have been forgotten Budget after Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u119	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u120	I really am concluding, Mr President. It remains to be seen whether, in fact, the middle class, as is the concern about national minimum income, will be a concern for the Government and the left, but also for the right, if it will become coherent in what it defends and in the action it carries out, in the voting place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u121	Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo, from the IL, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Less than a decade ago, economist Mário Centeno argued that a strong increase in the minimum wage could harm the level of employment. According to Mário Centeno, in this setting it is not advisable to proceed to the new rise of the minimum wage, especially when recent increases of the minimum wage have brought him very close to the average wage, a terrible sign of the health of our economy and further evidence that wages do not rise by decree. The Liberal Initiative argues that economic growth that enables people to go up to work is incompatible with an economy that bases its attractiveness on low wages and that the only way to sustain wage increases is to insist on well-identified productivity factors in the last report of the Council for Productivity, where, among them, it increases the degree of innovation and knowledge incorporated into the economy. Now, such an economy is incompatible with the statistical and bureaucratic framework that has characterized Portugal in recent decades. Only a more liberal economy can produce productivity gains and therefore better wages. It is not by chance that the countries with the most liberal economies have the highest minimum wages in the European Union, which have already been adjusted for purchasing power. Nor is it by chance that other liberal economies have much higher average wages than our own, without even having a minimum wage at national level. in these countries, minimum wages are either fixed or by social consultation, or adjusted to the reality of each sector or the reality of each region. In view of this further evidence that liberalism works, the Liberal Initiative will present, in the discussion of the State budget, a proposal for the introduction of the minimum municipal wage in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u123	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ofélia Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP has proposed the increase of the national minimum wage to 850 € — repeat, 850 €! This is an increase of €215, i.e. 34 %! An increase in this order of greatness has never occurred in the history of Portuguese democracy, not even in the best times of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u126	It proposes an increase in the national minimum wage of 34 % in one of the most difficult times, if not the most demanding for 46 years, is an irresponsible and irresponsible act of the harsh reality facing the country. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] The PSD considers the minimum wage to be a continuation of the democratic rule of law which plays a key role in promoting the dignity of work and social cohesion. The evolution of the minimum wage therefore deserves an unlimited sense of responsibility and the prudent rigour of all political decision-makers. Along with the desire, which we all have, that the national minimum wage is progressively higher and offers purchasing power gains to those who benefit from it, the minimum wage deserves and requires a rigorous and rational assessment of its consequences. We deserve to read the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which states that the evolution of the national minimum wage must take into account the requirements of economic and financial stability, the increase in cost of living, the level of development of productive forces,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u128	... accumulation for the development and needs of workers. That is why there is no need to give in to the temptation of demagogy and populism. There is no need for social dialogue, social dialogue. There is no need to ignore the reality that the country faces today. The proposal of the CFP that is being discussed today is not to take it seriously. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It's not to take it seriously because the PCP doesn't take the Portuguese seriously. It does not take companies who are desperate to fulfil their obligations because they are being swallowed up by an unprecedented economic and social crisis to which they have not contributed. It does not take the workers seriously, who often side by side with the entrepreneurs, want above all to preserve their jobs and safeguard their wages at the end of the month. It does not take seriously those who have seen their salary reduced by virtue of the layoff and who fear for their jobs, in the nearness of dismissals, as has happened to thousands of Portuguese in recent months. It remains to be said, therefore, that the proposal from the CFP is no longer a political maneuver to which the far-left parties have already used us on the eve of negotiation of the State budget. It is a mere currency of exchange for the approval of the State budget! But, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the Government persists in its intention to increase the national minimum wage by disregarding all economic indicators, which point to the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u129	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u130	In 2020, all indicators point to a brutal recession, with GDP ( gross domestic product) falling in the order of 9, 3 %, a deficit of 7, 2 %, for a public debt that is reaching historical values above those we had in 2014, for a fall in productivity of 3, 4 %, at the same time as an explosion of unemployment with regions such as the Algarve, which have increased unemployment by 200 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u132	And the outlook for 2021 is no better. Who says it isn't me. I quote the Minister of Finance, John Leon, when he states that «the worst is yet to come».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u133	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u134	Indeed, the lack of consistency in the policies of this government is too evident and the increase in national minimum wage is a flagrant example of this inconsistency. They note: on the one hand, the Government recognises the serious difficulties faced by companies, and that is proof of the measures which have been adopted to support businesses and preserve jobs, but on the other hand, it increases the national minimum wage, exacerbating the wage costs of companies, which it says it wants to save.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u136	But even more so: with the Layoff the government reduces the wage costs and reduces the wages of workers, and at the same time proposes the increase of the national minimum wage, increasing the wage costs of companies and increasing the wages of workers—he gives on the one hand and pulls off the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u137	Don't hit the boot with the chute!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u138	This looks like the give and pull game. In other words, the country is indebted to preserve businesses and maintain jobs and then, without any reasonable reason, the government imposes an increase in costs on these same companies, encouraging unemployment, bankruptcy and loss of competitiveness in our economy. Mrs. Members, the increase in the minimum wage calls us for a responsible exercise, based on the collective interest and not on the partisan interests. How can companies be forced to increase their wage costs when most of these companies face significant billing breaks, with uncertain prospects for the future and recovery? Today, many companies do not have liquidation to comply with their obligations before the workers before the State. In order to survive, over 91,000 companies had to use the simplified layoff, and as a result more than one million workers saw their wages reduced.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u140	A company that employs, only or mostly, paid workers with the minimum wage and has so far managed to keep jobs, is now in the forefront of bringing the final slaughter. Yes, he's in the immediate vicinity of bringing the final slaughter! Several studies examine the negative effects of the increase in minimum wage in employment and the majority conclude that this increase leads to unemployment when there are no productivity increases, especially in certain groups of workers, the most vulnerable, the younger, the less qualified and women. But it is not only the workers receiving the minimum wage that are affected by changes in their value, but also the workers with median wages are affected by the rise of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u142	Companies, in order to contain wage costs, compress the wage increases of workers who are not directly affected by the new minimum wage, which is unfair and unsustainable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u144	And do not come the left-wing parties say, as they have said, that the non-increase in the minimum wage only protects large companies, large-scale companies. This is not true, as you well know, because these companies tend to have few workers to receive the minimum wage. In fact, it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that most workers have to receive the national minimum wage and they represent about 99, 9 % of the business fabric. And for this reason, these will be the main targets for the increase in the minimum wage. These are precisely the companies to which Mr Prime Minister, here in this Chamber, has been referring for some days now, saying that he only looks at the companies in the future and not those who count the minimum wage. Does the Prime Minister not know the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Portuguese economy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u145	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u146	Those who unfortunately have to count to pay their workers on a daily basis? Will you not know the Prime Minister who are the companies in the tourism, restoration, housing and similar activities, who most employ workers who receive the national minimum wage? [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] Will you not know, Mr Prime Minister, that it is precisely the small and medium-sized enterprises that most need the support of the State to survive and maintain jobs? Mrs. Members, in the current situation, the increase in the minimum wage represents an unbalanced, unconscious and irresponsible decision, especially when the country registers an inflation close to zero, i.e. when the workers will not lose the purchasing power, if the value of the current minimum wage is maintained. [[PCP protests.]] And this is very important: they won't lose purchasing power. In short, in a context of extreme weakness of the business fabric, of the explosion of unemployment, to increase wages without correspondence in productivity is to lay at the fire.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u147	Mrs Ofélia Ramos, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u148	I will finish, Mr. President. Increasing the minimum wage in the full economic and social crisis means more bankruptcy, more unemployment. And it is precisely to defend the most fragile, the most vulnerable that the PSD is today against any change in the value of the national minimum wage. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u149	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Soares has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was 9 minutes in this House to finally hear the PSD say what it is coming — it is against the increase in the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If in 2015 they asked the Portuguese if a national minimum salary of € 635 was possible by 2020, almost no one would believe it, such as the PSD. If you ask the Portuguese today whether, despite the pandemic, it is possible to maintain the annual update of the minimum wage so that the goal of reaching the value of 750 € in 2023 is maintained, I believe few will believe. The decrease in 2015 was justified by the European cartel, faithfully followed in Portugal, that the solution for the exit of the crisis was the impoverishment, the cut in wages, the cut in incomes of only a few Europeans. The decline in 2020 is fighting it here today. Because despite some more conservative and even more liberal sectors of society, so well represented here in this Chamber, they continue to test the narrative that it is not possible to increase the minimum wage, that the economy cannot bear—the same 2015 cartilage is said — it is good to note that the Socialist Party continues here today to reaffirm the objective of increasing the minimum wage by 2021, keeping the goal of reaching 2023 with a minimum wage of 750 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a more comprehensive perspective, it is worth noting that the European Union itself, in response to the crisis we are living in, no longer defends the cartridge of the past. And in Portugal, by the voice of the Socialist Party, we have come to say, and we also reaffirm, that the recovery of Portugal from the crisis in which we immerse ourselves cannot be done at the expense of people. We therefore apply the European Union's money in the protection of employment, in the protection of Portuguese incomes, which is a sign of the proposal to continue to increase the national minimum wage by 2021. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Communist Party, which here brings this proposal, means, we leave a word of appreciation, because it has walked and walked side by side with the Socialist Party in defending a society with better wages, less poverty and more dignity. It is true that we cannot agree on the pace of growth, which even if the Socialist Party had already proposed a national minimum wage of €850 for 2021, perhaps the Communist Party would then propose a national minimum wage of €950 or €1000 — we understand. But it is also true, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the alternative to the rate of growth of the national minimum wage that the Socialist Party defends and that allows to continue to increase the national minimum wage for the sixth consecutive year, is the stagnation of the right, or in some cases even the cuts. And, that, I'm sure none of us on the left would accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u152	I know that we agree that the health and economic and social crisis cannot serve as a pretext for returning to the policies of impoverishment, which have brought such bad results to the Portuguese people. I know, and I'm sure you and the ladies and gentlemen. Members on the left agree that we cannot leave the crisis at the expense of people, their wages, their jobs and the impoverishment of the country. And so I also know that you know that we should, on the contrary, jointly take advantage of this moment of difficulty to, with the strength of all the workers and all the Portuguese, with the help of the European Union, manage and make good use of the resources available to recover Portugal. The national minimum wage is just a dimension of what we must continue to do. It would be unforgivable and incomprehensible, even to exchange a proposal to increase wages, to increase income, to protect employment, to strengthen social benefits by the adventurism of a solution which defends precisely the opposite of what we have built and which has already demonstrated in the past what comes, why it comes and by whom it comes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I speak directly now for the approximately 850,000 Portuguese who take the minimum wage. I know the faces of so many and so many workers who, on the floor of the factories of Guimarães, in the valley of the Ave, along their contribution careers have only seen their wages rise because the social partners and the state, ultimately, have risen, by decree, the minimum wage, as has happened in the last six years. I know what it means to raise the minimum wage for those Portuguese, for their families and for so many other workers in this country. Therefore, the proposal that we will present at the heart of social dialogue will be a balanced proposal, in accordance with our commitment to defend decent work, to recover income and to combat poverty from those who work. The health situation is difficult to grasp, it is true. The economic and financial difficulties of companies and families continue, but it is not time to go back. In 2020, as in 2015, the economic policy of returns, demand induction and stimulus to the economy will work as it worked. For the Socialist Party, the economic and health crisis, the social crisis will not serve as a pretext for returning to the policies of impoverishment. And, no, by PS we will not leave this crisis at the expense of people, their wages, their jobs and the impoverishment of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] to the Portuguese people we want to say today that the proposal to increase the minimum wage of €750 up to 2023 is our commitment, and today it leaves here reaffirmed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u153	The next intervention is the Green Party. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have seen here, from the PSD, an effort to revive the theory of the coming of the devil. [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] Mrs Ofélia Ramos, it was 9 minutes and a half to say that the PSD is against the increase in the national minimum wage. We know that there are political forces for whom it is never appropriate to increase the national minimum wage. If this is not the case, it is the case and it is the situation, Mrs Deputies, but it is never appropriate to increase the national minimum wage. What we know is that our country cannot continue to bet on a low-wage policy, not only because it represents a strong injustice for thousands and thousands of families, but also because the low-wages at nothing contribute to the dynamization of our economy, on the contrary. That is why it is absolutely imperative to pursue wage valuation, because it is a way to ensure more justice in the distribution of the wealth produced, and at the same time to promote the increase of purchasing power and the improvement of the living conditions of the people who work and their families. In addition, the recovery of wages in general, and in particular the national minimum wage, will also be translated into a contribution to the recovery and dynamisation of the economy and domestic demand, and consequently to national production and job creation as in the past legislation. A legislation that has recently restored the purchasing power of families, but that was sufficient to realize the importance of the replacement of purchasing power in the dynamisation of the internal market and with very positive effects and reflections on our economy. It happens that the national minimum wage, despite the increase it has experienced in recent years, remains very low. And it remains very low, at all levels and under all angles of analysis. It is low when compared to the minimum wage of the other countries of the European Union, it is low when we make a reading on wage and social inequalities in our country, and it is very low, and it is very low, to rock the unsustainability, when we look at the cost of living for the Portuguese. Moreover, it is sufficient to note that today the minimum wage is less than it was in 1974, and in real terms it is currently less than 10 % than what it has been worth about 40 years. And even with the additions you have seen in recent years, reality shows, in a way, that a considerable part of the Portuguese, despite being employed, lives in poverty. This means that having employment is not in itself a condition for leaving poverty, since the value of the national minimum wage is still too low to ensure the basic needs of workers and their families. It is also recalled that the national minimum wage has even been frozen between 2011 and 2014, at which time the PSD/CDS Government has made a small increase, manifestly insufficient to respond to the most basic needs of citizens, mainly taking into account the scenario of attacks and offensives promoted by the same Government with regard to income and labour and social rights. In fact, it is imperative to increase the minimum wage that can be fair and take people out of poverty, because that is what it is all about: removing people from poverty. For all this, we follow the legislative initiative that the Portuguese Communist Party today, and with all the opportunity, has scheduled for debate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u155	Mr Cecilia Meireles spoke on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Please, Dr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a PCP project to raise the minimum wage, and we are discussing it at a serious time. In fact, not only is the economy not functioning as usual, as I would say, all our lives have been altered by the pandemic. If, normally, the discussion about the increase in the minimum wage lends itself to all demagogy, caricatures and manichismos, I think that the gravity of the situation we went through would lead to our doing it with calmness, serenity and rationality. This is because the debate on wage also has to do with the wealth that is produced and the results that companies are having. To reduce the discussion of the minimum wage to the good, which have the political will to increase, and to the bad, who have the political will to decrease, is to reduce this discussion to practically absurd and irrational. Discussing the minimum wage has to do with the distribution of wealth produced, but it also has to do with the creation of wealth. [[PS Member Hugo Oliveira's protests.]] It is not possible to share what is not produced, and that is why these two things have to be seen together to find a just solution. In fact, in Portugal, the minimum wage is low. In fact, the average wage is also low, and we need to have that consciousness. For rational discussions, I think it is worth looking at what happens, for example, in the rest of Europe in relation to the national minimum wage. For example, if we look at the three highest national minimum wages in Europe we find Luxembourg with a national minimum wage of 2141, 99 €, Ireland with a national minimum wage of 1681, 55 € and the Netherlands with a national minimum wage of 1666, 80 €. Therefore, if the actual objective of the CFP, when presenting this project, is that in Portugal we can one day have minimum wages of these and average wages such as those in these countries, then I think it would be worth following their example. What the CFP often proposes here—as in fact several parties sitting on its side of the Hemicycle—is to do exactly the opposite of what these countries have done. By the way, I think it is also worth looking at the countries of Europe which have lower national minimum wages: Bulgaria, with a national minimum wage of 311, 89 €, Latvia, with a national minimum wage of 430 €, and Romania, with a national minimum wage of 463 €. [[PCP protests.]] And I ask myself, what policies will these countries have followed over decades? Because it'll be... [[PCP protests.]] They may scream, but unfortunately they will not change history for the many generations that you have condemned to misery and hunger for what you have done. [[PCP protests.]] They will not change the past and, unfortunately, they will not change the present either, because it will take a long time, decades, until these countries can reverse what you and your policies have done there and even have national minimum wages similar to those practiced in other countries in Europe. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Therefore, I am one of those who want, yes, a country with a much higher national minimum wage and a much higher average wage. So I think that Portugal needs to learn from the examples of countries that can make their people live better than we do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u157	The Chinese! The best example is that of China...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u158	Mr. PCP will know the Chinese much better than I will. I don't think I need to explain the experience you have there! [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u159	Put the mask on, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u160	Please continue, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u161	Mr President, I will continue, but that is a bit difficult. As far as we are concerned, the real choice for many companies — and it is necessary for Parliament to be aware of this — is between continuing to endure the damage they have had or to close. This is the real choice for many companies, fortunately not for all. Therefore, on the minimum wage, the CDS will say what it has always said, i.e., that it is to the social consultation that this decision has to do with.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u162	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u163	It is in the social dialogue between companies and workers that, contrary to what you say...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u164	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u165	Mr President, I would like to conclude, but I would also like to have the conditions for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u166	Madam Member, you have every opportunity to conclude. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u167	Mr President, I will then conclude. It is in the social dialogue between companies and workers — that you insist on putting each other against each other, but that they are fighting together to overcome this crisis — that the solution to this question has to be found. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u168	The next item is Mr José Soeiro of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, it had apparently been possible to establish a broad consensus on the need to increase the minimum wage. The theories that the right handed down with catastrophe when a path of higher inflation began, agreed to the left in the previous Legislature, fell on the ground, and even had been hibernate for some time. It is not surprising, therefore, that the PSD wanted to rehabilitate them today, so strictly, crying against the increase in wages and for maintenance, it is known there until, of net wages of 565 € per month. In contrast to these failed theories, the reality has been to demonstrate in recent years that increasing the minimum wage creates employment and not unemployment. If we already know this, it would make little sense now to return to the destructive arguments that suggest that freezing the real wage is an economic lifeline in times of crisis; or that containing wages can be a good choice of economic policy; or that not increasing wages can be an incentive for businesses to create jobs. None of this is factual. On the contrary, increasing the minimum wage is the most sensible decisions that can be taken by 2021. The first reason is that this increase is a question of justice and of combating poverty, particularly wage poverty, which has had a structural weight in Portugal which reaches 1 in every 10 workers. Poverty certainly fights with a social protection system that needs to be rethinked and that cannot leave anyone behind, especially the unemployed, who are the most vulnerable group to poverty. For this reason, we have already proposed a social income of citizenship which refers to the poverty threshold for all those who have now lost their jobs. But poverty is, in the very first place, fighting for an economic policy for full employment and that it values wages. If the Assembly of the Republic stated at times in a solemn statement that poverty was a "infringement of human rights", what about the offensive of the reality of wage poverty? What about the reality of workers who, even working, even having a job, remain in a state of poverty? The increase in the minimum wage is a measure of the most elementary social justice, in a country where the distribution of income between work and capital continues to be scandalously unbalanced—in fact, it did not even resume the levels of 2010. The second reason for this increase is that it is necessary to support domestic demand, which is the largest part of the domestic product and therefore the demand for the productive system. With the reduction of exports and with the withdrawal of tourism, it is too clear that it is in domestic demand that it is the ability to cushion short-term recovery. Moreover, the weight of wages in all the costs of companies is, on average, about 20 %, depending on the activity sector we are talking about. It is not therefore the minimum wages that can jeopardise the viability of companies, but they are, yes, those that support the domestic demand that so many companies depend on. Increasing them is therefore also protecting them. On the other hand, the defence and valuation of wages pushes the whole economy to improve its system of qualifications and to develop a pattern of productive specialization that is not based on low wages, and that is a central objective of decent economic policy. Increasing the minimum wage is a measure of elementary economic wisdom. But there is still a third reason, which is that of democratic credibility to increase the minimum wage. At the beginning of this legislation, the government committed itself to a target of €750 for the minimum wage and also established a trajectory to meet it, with a phased increase, which was completed in 2020 with an increase of €35. The maintenance of this rate of annual increases is the minimum commitment that must now be maintained by the Government. It would be more than a mistake if, at the first crisis, the signs that were intended to be given were no longer valid and if, at the first sign of crisis, even if they embraced, in a mitigated manner, the theories that we rejected in the past, that the increase in the minimum wage could be an evil to the economy. I am interrupting a rate of increase in the minimum wage that the Government had already begun and that it was foreseeable would be a wrong signal at all levels. at a time when we may need, as never before, bold investment measures and measures to protect jobs and wages in a country with the lowest minimum wage in Western Europe, huge wage inequalities, a deep concentration of wealth and a rate of wage poverty reaching 1 in 10 workers, increasing the minimum wage, without withdrawal, is a fundamental democratic commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u170	To speak by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We regard this debate on the minimum wage as a debate of great importance, from the outset on a fundamental issue of social justice. We do not comply with a situation in which about 25 % of Portuguese workers, who take the minimum wage, become impoverished working. Indeed, this is the reality that we have: the low level of minimum wage in Portugal makes the workers who take it out are poor, leading a life of work without being able to cross the poverty threshold. This is an essential issue for us, and we will not rest until this situation is substantially changed, because it is not at least acceptable. It is not worth having political speeches saying that Portugal cannot be a low-wage country and that you cannot want to attract investment by invoking the low-wages practised here, regretting that, and at the same time refusing to significantly increase the national minimum wage. This is not the panacea for solving national problems, and it is clear that other economic measures are required which lead to the development of national production, to the dynamisation of the internal market and exports, but the productive profile of our country cannot continue to be based on the low wages of Portuguese workers. That is an essential question for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u172	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u173	Mr President, if there is no opposition from the Bureau, since we have two minutes for closure, with the permission of you, Exa would use the time of that intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u174	All right. We shall then move on to the end of the debate, and Mr António Filipe will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u175	Thank you very much, Mr President. I therefore spare myself from repeating in this speech what I just said in the previous one. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have heard here the positions of the PSD and the CDS on the increase in the minimum wage and, listening to Mrs Ofélia Ramos of the PSD, it seemed that she was listening to the interventions that the PSD has made on several occasions in recent years, when discussing the minimum wage. That is, if it were true the catastrophic forecasts that the Member of Parliament here has made about what would be the evolution of the national economy if the minimum wage had been increased, they would have already happened, because the PSD said this several times. Whenever, in the Assembly of the Republic, the minimum wage was discussed, always in view of an increase in the minimum wage as low as it was, the prospect of PSD was that companies would all go below and the economy would close and that would be a disaster! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Mrs. Deputy, you've never been! The increase in minimum wage has never been a disaster! On the contrary, what recent history shows us is that the Portuguese economy has progressed when the purchasing power of Portuguese workers has increased. That's indisputable! [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Ofélia Ramos.]] What led the economy to the disaster were the policies that the PSD and CDS imposed in this country! [[PCP applause.]] What led to the disaster was cuts in wages, cuts in allowances, cuts in pensions that you imposed. The economy has improved significantly when there was a dynamisation of the internal market promoted by the increase in workers' incomes over the past few years. That is the reality that you cannot hide. You can continue to make catastrophic speeches here regarding the increase in the minimum wage because reality is there to lie to you and against that you have no arguments. Mrs Meireles, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, has not even begun badly, but then came with consideration, will allow me to tell you, without any sense, saying that when we increase the minimum wage, we want to follow the path of countries that do not increase the minimum wage! The honourable Member gave us the example of Romania and Bulgaria. You know what I'm telling you? If these countries, at the end of 30 years of capitalism, failed to increase the minimum wage, it is good that they change their lives! [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u176	Mr António Filipe, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u177	I will finish, Mr. President. I will only refer to one last question which has been addressed here, the cost to companies. Generally, wage costs represent 18 % of the costs of companies. The very small companies only have to benefit if the Portuguese have more money, because their business level depends on the standard of living of the Portuguese — that is more than demonstrated. The increase in the minimum wage is fundamental, not to destroy, but to ensure the survival of many thousands of small businesses that depend on the dynamisation of the internal market, and that is why we will not give up this proposal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u178	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded point 4 of our agenda. We move on to the fifth and last item on the agenda, which is discussed in draft resolution No 618 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support to institutions in the social and solidarity sector with residential structure for elderly people under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. Who will present this legislative initiative of the CDS-PP is Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the pandemic crisis—and it was enough to look at our neighbouring Spain, the situation in our homes—there were two things that became obvious. The first is that the elderly population was increasingly vulnerable and the second is that the residential structures for the elderly, vulgar homes, by their typology, were not able to deal with the necessary, but very restrictive, rules of public health and, much less, with the increased costs these rules required. The CDS always stated that the third sector institutions were indispensable and irreplaceable partners and that they had to be supported in order to, in turn, be able to provide the required follow-up that the pandemic forced. Therefore, soon in March, we presented a recommendation to the Government that it was important to provide the institutions of the social and solidarity sector the so-called PPE(individual protective equipment) necessary for all those who work there or are users and to extend, in conjunction with the municipalities, a COVID-19 test operation in all households of the elderly, either for their users or for their workers. The project presented was, at that time, plunged by PS and PSD, with the abstention of all other parties, which means that at that time no one was available to listen to CDS alerts. for the worst reasons, time has come to give us reason in this base of support, which only later began to appear and after serious consequences we all know, many of them are only not so much more serious due to the diligent action of the local power. And what did it come up with, in particular? On 28 July, six months after the beginning of the pandemic, it was published the portal that created the Social Adapter + Programme, which essentially establishes a sum of EUR 9 million, with a maximum of € 10 000 per institution, so that they could apply between mid-August and end-September, to be able to spend, at this ten-month interval, on simple expenses: acquisition of personal protective equipment—i.e. masks, gloves, visors; acquisition and installation of hygiene equipment—automatic dispensation, disinfectants, etc. ; acquisition and installation of equipment to monitor vital parameters of COVID-19 symptoms; hiring of facilities disinfection services; reorganization of spaces and their layouts; isolations, division installation. Finally, €10 000 to do all this, which is clearly irrelevant to the real needs and costs that the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) have, not only for their usual expenses as for these increases caused by COVID. In addition, and above all, this program ends in December, not allowing institutions to care about the increase in needs due to what is predicted in winter and a second outbreak. Clearly, we must renegotiate, extend, extend this programme to levels that make sense and that are not simply a little clearly insufficient aid for the institutions. On the other hand, it is essential to maintain permanent tracking of employees and users as a preventive way to speed up action in cases of also positive outbreaks. And we were both right in March and September when we entered this project, because even today the government has announced this: during the next six months, they will do a screening program, forgetting, unfortunately, to remember that they also participate in these screenings, and with great meaning, the private laboratories conventioned, because they always talk about scientific and public institutions, but they forget about those that have given their hand very much to all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u180	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u181	I'm done, Mr. President. Finally, also with what we have learned in Reg ALLES, and which comes in the various reports, from the outset of public health, it is very important to give a training programme to volunteers, so that they correctly comply with DGS (Direction-General of Health) and are not themselves sources of contamination and contamination. These are simple recommendations, at least, that I am sure this House will be able to approve today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u182	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of this initiative is again the protection of those who face greater risks in this pandemic and are more vulnerable: the elderly and, in particular, the elderly who are in institutions. This has been a recurring issue in the discussions we have in the House, but despite the tremendous efforts of those who are in the front line and to whom a word of deep gratitude is once again due, the situation of these elderly people continues to not deserve the absolute priority that the Government should have. This continuing lack of attention is seen in the way it hesitates or sometimes refuses to use the assistance resources available in the social and private sectors, when public resources are insufficient to care for the elderly. It is clear that the powerful do not feel the dramatism of these situations. State advisors, for example, have the privilege of going to the Champalimaud Foundation to be tested and to know the results in hours, while the elderly deny the simplest use of the private and social sector in identical circumstances. In the face of these situations, and when questioned, the government repeats « let's see », « we are analyzing », « now that the brigades are going to take off », a reflection of a foolish and undetermined attitude to protect a population that continues to represent 40% of the dead by COVID. We will follow the proposal presented by the CDS, which is discussed here today, for the effective support to the institutions of the social sector, because, we remember, the elderly cannot go to the Champalimaud Foundation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u184	For an intervention, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in the homes exposed the important reality of the institutionalization of the elderly and the tragedy with which the whole of Europe and Portugal also confronts the way we treat the older ones. The pandemic drew attention to the size of illegal homes in Portugal, which was not unknown, but was particularly exposed ; to the conditions in which care is provided in residential establishments for elderly people; to the problems resulting from the shortage of supply and, indeed, a model of State intervention, in which the State withdrew from the direct provision of social care and delivered them entirely to the private and social sector and the problems caused by the spatial rules and how they were defined and changed over the past years; to the weaknesses of staff and compliance with the ratios; to the overload and devaluation of professionals of these social equipment and to the artificial discontinuity between health care and social care in establishments where, in fact, these realities are very difficult to distinguish. The pandemic situation has also confronted us with the weakness of state monitoring mechanisms and the shortcomings in guaranteeing the human rights of residents of residential structures for the elderly, residents of the homes of the elderly. We have discussed here several times, and the Left Block also defended it, that it was necessary for the joint teams of the Institute of Social Security, the Directorate-General for Health and Civil Protection to go through every home to ensure possible contingency plans, given the very characteristics of the homes, to find spaces that could also accommodate people in homes where the spatial conditions themselves did not allow to ensure the rules and standards of safety and health. We also argue that there should be regular access to tests and that, on the return of holidays, all professionals should be tested, something that has not happened and should have happened and on which we insist. And we naturally defend the strengthening of staff, which, from our point of view, should not be done by means of the model which the Government has launched, which resorts to situations that do not even happen through the existence of a contract of work and a wage, but through employment-inclusion contracts or activities called'socially useful', which correspond to situations of extreme precarious assistance by the State, in which not even the conditions of training are fully guaranteed. The CDS today brings the discussion of a bill of which we obviously do not disagree, which is related to the need for individual equipment, either with the guarantee of testing, or also with the compliance of DGS standards and guidelines. I believe that no party will be against these recommendations. The important thing is that, in addition to strengthening this intervention, we can take advantage of the unfortunate and even tragic circumstance with which we are faced to rethink deeply the care model provided to the elderly in Portugal and also advance with policies that are able to promote deinstitutionalization and more human models of response care to the elderly population.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u186	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a draft resolution submitted by the CDS concerning a set of recommendations for the social and solidarity sector. This initiative displays a set of concerns and recommendations that the PSD accompanies. We have had the opportunity to say, and we reiterate, that the social and solidarity sector represents a fundamental pillar in the response to citizens, especially the most vulnerable, reaching where the state often fails. We understand and follow the need to give particular attention to this sector, especially at this stage, and there have been several ways in which the PSD has questioned the government and presented legislative initiatives. We regret that many of these initiatives to go to this sector—and to go to this sector is to go to our elderly—have not been approved in this House. We also regret that many of the issues we have raised to the Government have not so far received any answers. [[PSD applause.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened can't happen again. Since the first hour of this pandemic, PSD has called attention to the need for an integrated and rapid test. What happened? This is not what happened, what happened was a phased testing of the elderly by geographical areas. And even that, the state failed. It was not the speedy intervention of the authorities and this response would be compromised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u188	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u189	Since the first hour of this pandemic we call attention to and demand the need to provide institutions of the social and solidarity sector that welcome elderly people from all conditions to ensure the well-being and safety of their elderly. That's not what happened. E, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter we are not! — what is happening with the Social Adapter + Programme is very serious. What is happening is that support is announced to the institutions of this sector and, even during the candidatures, these institutions are notified that there are no more money, no more money. Therefore, it is regrettable what the State is doing, but more than lamentable, it is serious, because, by not caring for our institutions, it is not caring for our elderly... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u190	...and he's doing a government that's not serious. It is only yesterday that the government was here in this House and said that this programme was helping and would help many institutions. It's not true, there are numerous complaints! The PSD, still today, has asked a question on this matter and we hope that the government will not leave anyone behind, that no institution will be left out of this support. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is another very relevant issue and the PSD has claimed since the first hour. The State cannot fail with the elderly, with all the elderly, and the Government has that obligation. There are no elderly first and elderly second. But the government, having known for a long time that there were serious situations of illegal and irregular homes, did not do anything. The government has only announced in March that it would make a survey of all these institutions. For, six months back, the Minister came here to Parliament and was questioned about this situation and was unable to give an answer. What does that mean? It means that in our country, we have elderly people who are off the radar of social security. And what's it like to be off the social security radar? It is these elderly who have no support, no follow-up, no doctor, social security services. It is a situation that cannot continue to repeat itself. Even to finish, I wanted to leave here a regret, because, even last week, a proposal from the PSD was voted here to regulate this situation, which was rejected by the Socialist Party. We're talking about our elderly and there's no elderly person who can stay behind. You are consistent with this failure of the government because you continue to tell the elderly who reside in illegal or irregular institutions that do not deserve equal treatment with the other elderly. So, even to finish, I would like to say that we regret, but we sincerely hope that this situation will be resolved in the future, and we will not give up. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u191	The next intervention is by Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I was listening to the speech of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, and also those of the other representatives of the benches on the right, and I remembered - a song by Chico Buarque, extraordinary, Beatriz, in which he says « will believe that she is in another country or only a role». It is, in fact, the honourable Members. Members have shown that the PSD and the Liberal Initiative have not even read the draft resolution of the CDS and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa do not even know the proposal she has brought here. The three recommendations in the draft resolution are precisely those which the Government has already implemented and which are in constant review.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u193	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the home situation is a situation that should not be treated with demagogy and populism, because for this we have Mr André Ventura, who does it much more efficiently than VV. For example, as the polls show.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u196	The situation of homes is difficult, requires sense of responsibility and truth, and that is how important it is that we can be here. I'll give you the facts of reality and truth. We now have 700 infected in the residential homes of the elderly—but we have already had 2500, and we are at a difficult stage of the pandemic—in 99 000 users, which means 0, 7%, i.e. less than 1 %. Even if it was just one, it was a reason for us to be uncomfortable, but this is an average below all the countries of Europe. In terms of mortality, we have 39 %, also below the European Union average. These are the data. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that we could achieve this if it were not the measures that the government has been implementing, together with the local authorities and the social sector authorities? Of course not! Yesterday, Mr Prime Minister here recalled that the President of the Union of Portuguese Mercy called him, excited, because it is a situation and circumstance to excite everyone, saying that for the fifth consecutive week, an elderly person had not died in the homes of mercy. This is an extraordinary situation, with which we should welcome it, but we must also acknowledge that this is the result of the correct, correct measures that the Government has been taking. I'm going to mention some of them. The Government has set up a national screening programme, with 120 000 tests to employees and users, which has been a pioneer in Europe ; it has delivered 1, 3 million PPE in households and solidarity institutions; it has strengthened cooperation agreements with the social and solidarity sector by 70 million euros; it has increased support for institutions with day centres to strengthen home support. There are, in Portugal, 2500 homes, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes — I will give you this fact, because you do not have it, but the Social Adaptation Programme + has already financed more than 3000 institutions. That is, if there are 2500 homes and more than 3000 have already been funded, this means that, in addition to the homes, there are other institutions that have benefited from this program, which is extremely important, and this programme is already being renewed. On the ground, on a large scale, there is a screening of the homes that have the most users, which is a fundamental and necessary measure. More than 8000 strengthening professionals have already been placed in the homes, through the MAREESS (Measurement of Emergency Support for Social Equipment and Health). With the collaboration of the Army and the authorities, generalized training actions are under way for information on COVID. The rapid intervention brigades have been set up. A dedicated telephone line was created, 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic have increased our intervention time, but I, who am already finishing the time you had, cannot even read all the measures that the Government has taken and which are benefiting the elderly in homes. So I finish, with the tolerance of Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u197	And ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u198	... moreover, with an author who I think is also expensive to him, referring to the following: Gabriel García Márquez said that old age is also a free covenant with solitude, so we must all strive to give trust and security to the elderly, at this difficult time of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u199	Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, I am grateful for associating myself with this literary suggestion. Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We, in fact, liked to have heard all these measures, by the Socialist Party, in March,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u201	In March? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u202	... when this crisis began and when they were, in fact, needed answers...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u203	In March? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u204	Exactly, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, in March, when this crisis began and when immediate responses were needed in our homes and for our elderly. In fact, the NAP has been warning about this since March. In fact, the lethality rate always told us that the elderly were a risk group. Yesterday, DGS data showed that for people over 70 years of age, the mortality rate is 13% and that is why we should of course continue to worry about it. The truth is that in the course of this health crisis, and since March, when it started here in our country, many institutions have not had the necessary support either to comply with the DGS guidelines or to implement standards in the field. The NAP, in March, proposed the creation of a line of support specifically for households - we believe it was the right time to create it - and the government came to respond to that need six months later. And on the side of the NAP we have insisted that it is not enough to issue standards, it is necessary to accompany the institutions on the ground. This aspect is fundamental. Also, another aspect that we always defend as fundamental was the strengthening of the epidemiological surveillance network. We have made this proposal in the seat of Reformary Budget, it has been approved by this House, it is being implemented and public health specialists are being strengthened, so that they can act in the community, with the institutions, to contain the virus, until we believe that, in fact, preventing is not remedying, preventing is providing health services with the necessary means, whether they are human or material. We know, then, that we now have rapid intervention brigades, which, in our understanding, are late, but it is important to ensure that we do not fail again in this matter. It is necessary to ensure that they have all the conditions to do their work, that all professionals of these social intervention institutions have to be regularly tracked, that contingency plans are in fact suitable for reality, that there is no lack of personal protective equipment, that human resources have dignified conditions and that their work is valued and that it is still necessary to ensure the rapid and oleate articulation between all entities. Finally, I leave only one message for Mrs Ana Rita Bessa : in what are sensible proposals for the protection of our elderly, they can obviously count on the NAP, contrary to what the CDS likes to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u205	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of March, the CFP questioned the Government and, where appropriate, the Minister of Health about the situation of institutions that guarantee responses in the social equipment network, particularly about the homes of the elderly and the need to take preventive measures for these entities. Also in March, the CFP expressed concern about the situation of the institutions, having questioned the government and signalled that difficulties and demands were being raised to institutions that integrate the network of services and equipment, to which responsibilities were transferred in the management and functioning of social responses in various valences, including in childhood, youth and the elderly, among other dimensions. We have also analysed the problems added meanings by families who use these answers. We affirmed the need for the Government to point out exceptional measures aimed at safeguarding institutions in difficulty, so that they could fulfil their responsibilities with users, but also with their workers, as well as measures to safeguard families. We also pointed out from the outset that the measures to be taken should be linked with the responsibility of the institutions that make up the equipment network and with the government itself. The most immediate answers to mitigate the consequences of the outbreak, and which have to be guaranteed, do not inhibit or hide the need to take substantive and structural measures, the urgency of which is demonstrated exactly by the reality we are facing today in our country. There are a number of problems in the institutions and, in this case, in the homes, which have been dragged for several years, which are maintained and evidenced in the current context—of course, the lack of workers in these institutions, which is not a problem for now and which could have been resolved with the proposal presented by the CFP for the hiring of workers for these institutions, with links and with rights, that PSD, PS, CDS and Liberal Initiative voted against. There are still problems in access to the homes of the elderly, keeping lists of waiting and difficulties for many families and many users to access these responses, often being pushed into the so-called "illegal homes". The CFP recognizes the important role of the IPSS, but as a complement to the public responses to which the State is constitutionally obliged, and not replacing itself with the State. The guarantee of social rights is a primary responsibility of the State. It is necessary to respond to the problems and difficulties of the environment that we are facing at this time and the exceptional framework in which we live, without turning off this response from a wider structural problems that affect the network of equipment and services in the area of social action. It is in this sense that the CFP has intervened and will continue to intervene, defending the extension of the home network, with the creation of a public network, managed by the public sector, which responds to the deficiencies identified, a response which is added to the existing one. It should also be recalled, considering even the proposals presented by the CDS in its draft resolution, that there are competences and responsibilities that lie within the reach of health authorities, and that there can be no interference from other entities in this area. We cannot fail to point out this: there are responsibilities that fall within the competence of the health authorities, something that we will also consider in the evaluation of this same initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u207	The last intervention, before the closure, is the Green Party. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The homes of the elderly are a social response for collective accommodation, temporary or permanent use, of elderly persons or others at greater risk of loss of independence and/or autonomy. in these spaces, elderly people, or others, whose social, family, economic or health situation does not allow them to stay in their homes, ensuring the provision of adequate care to satisfy the needs and, whenever the situation of the elderly allows it, seeking the maintenance of their autonomy, independence and social relationship, in order to ensure the healthy and happy experience of the person concerned. in these spaces, therefore, are hopefully created conditions that allow to preserve and encourage the interfamily relationship. This prerogative was, however, suspended at the beginning of March, as a form of protection for the elderly, due to the cases of COVID-19 identified in Portugal, taking into account that those are included in risk groups. Indeed, in these structures many have chronic diseases, respiratory or heart problems, and it is necessary to effectively protect citizens at greater risk of suffering the effects of COVID-19. The homes of the elderly should have staff to ensure the provision of services 24 hours a day, therefore, depending on the number of users, the staff cover staff from various areas: health, sociocultural animation, managerial technicians, direct action assistants, cooks, kitchen assistants, assistants, among others. Every day, in these spaces, it is sought to ensure that the diseases of each person are controlled, but despite all care, the elderly need to resort to hospital emergencies and even hospitalizations. However, it is impossible to predict people's needs and prevent them from becoming ill or their diseases from developing. The Greens had already warned of this reality that I had just mentioned in March, when they presented a draft resolution that warned of the need and urgency for a strengthening of care in these spaces, and it was desirable that the same rules were applied to the other health professionals, in terms of protection equipment, not only of their own, but also of the elderly. However, PS and PSD voted against, even though they were already in sight of the fatal consequences of the care lighter, and Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the CDS abstained. So it is not understood that, at a time when the problem remains — we do not ignore or deny it — but in which the structures are already more prepared to give the necessary answers, proposals should be made that should already be established. Perhaps the only objective is to transfer to the State responsibilities that are of the institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u209	Good prayer! Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u210	For the closure of this debate, on behalf of the party which is the author of the initiative in question, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u211	Mr. President, with so many eloquent literary references by Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u212	It was just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u213	There were two of them! I can count, Mr. Deputies. As I was saying, with so many eloquent literary references from Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, I feel compelled to pay particular attention to him, to honour the high level of his intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u214	Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u215	He said that the great objective that we should all meet is to provide security for the elderly. Yeah, no more! That is why we bring this proposal, which translates into concrete actions exactly that. They are concrete actions which, in March, the honourable Member found fired, and therefore voted against, but now he thinks they make all the sense and are even obvious, so he listed a whole cast — even regretting the lack of time he has, see there — to show how much work has been done on the ground. He also said that I was probably distracted, that I didn't even know exactly what was coming and I hadn't read my own intervention. With regard to this, Mr President, I would like to say a few things to you. The honourable Member said: "Well, there have been no deaths in the homes of mercy. » I would have liked that, but perhaps, if I had seen the news yesterday, I would have known that, unfortunately, yesterday four elderly people died in the home of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Bragança. But, ready, they're smaller things... I understand that Mr. Deputy can't pay attention to everything, from the very beginning of the CDS resolution project. There will certainly be other things to do. I would also like to tell you that, in relation to the Social Adapter Programme + — this programme which was launched, and well, but late in August — on 29 September, all the funds were already exhausted for a candidature that would end on the 30th day. It offered 10 000 € per institution. Mr. Deputies, imagine! There are mercys, for example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, which have spent, from March to today, 100 000 €! It was not 10 000 €, but 100 000 €! The question, Mrs Mariana Silva, is exactly this: if the State decides to contract with the social sector a service, paying, therefore, a price to certain conditions, when these conditions change for unnecessary reasons, should not the State sacrifice, help and compensate those institutions, exactly with what they need? It's not helping, it's honoring commitments! It is, Madam Member, when it comes to public entities, that we see, through the implementation of the budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u216	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u217	I'm done with this, Mr. President. As I said, when it comes to public entities, we see from the budget implementation that the State has spent EUR 340 million on PPE for public institutions around EUR 10 million, distributed in EUR 10 000 per institution. This is not being a good person state and, at the end of the line, it is not helping who needs it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u218	We are thus at the end of our agenda. Before announcing the order of business for tomorrow, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, Bill No. 557 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and Resolution Projects Nos 693 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 694 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) and 695 / XIV / 2. a (PEV). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-08.u220	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Tomorrow, the Plenary will meet at 10 a.m. and begin-CL with a marking of the Socialist Party, in which the Drafts of Law Nos 547 / XIV / 2 will be discussed in general. a ( PS ) — Other provisions of the electoral laws for the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the bodies of the local authorities, the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum and the legal regime of the electoral census, extending the vote in mobility and simplifying and uniforming cross-sectional provisions for the execution of electoral and referendum acts, 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Harmonizes the Electoral Law for the European Parliament with the provisions in force in the Portuguese legal order on the loss of mandate of holders of elective positions and 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for voters to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, due to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment, together with the Draft Resolution No 675 / XIV /2 . a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of the consolidation of the electoral procedural legislation andalso , ingeneral , the Bill No. 505 / XIV /1 . a ( PSD ) — extends the vote in advance to the voters who are in compulsory custody in the context of a situation of serious serious risk to publichealth , taking thetwenty- second amendment to the Electoral Act of the President of theRepublic , adopted byDecree- Law No. 319- A /76 , of 3May , to the tenth amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of theRepublic , adopted by Act No. 14 /79 , of 16May , of 16May , to the tenth amendment to the Organic Act No. 1 / 2001 of 14August , which regulates the election for the holders of the organs of local authorities of localauthorities , to the seventh amendment to Law No. 15- A /98 , of 3 April ( Organic Law of the Referenerendored Body Act) , of 3 April ( Organic Law of 16May , the tenth amendment of 12February , and of 12February , and of 12February , and of 12February , and 12February , and 12February , and 12 February and 12 February and 12 and 12 last last amendment and 12 February and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and and and and 14 and and and and and and 14 and and and and and and and and 14 seven seven four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four and two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two four and two two two four and two four and two four and two four and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and twotwo After the debate, we will have a regular vote. On behalf of the Bureau, I thank all of you and all of you for your cooperation in this session and I wish to continue on a good day. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 29 minutes.]]
