ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u1	Good morning. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] of the first and only item on the agenda today is a debate under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, with the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira. I take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Minister in particular. Like the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the new Rules of Procedure which have been approved, this debate will have two rounds. In the first round, the parties will speak and the Minister will answer, if he so understands, ask the question. In the second round, it will be free, i.e., the gentlemen. Members shall speak and then, in the end, the Minister shall answer. So let's start our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u2	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u3	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u4	Mr President, first of all, I welcome you. Members and members of the Government present. Mr President, we doubted the second round of this debate and asked if we could find out how it works so that we could organize ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u5	Mr President, I also have these same doubts, because I have been informed in a way, but now another format appears in the script, as if the second round was equal to the first round. As a result, we are trying to assess this situation. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, after all, according to the new Rules of Procedure, the second round is equal to the first round. Therefore, both will follow a question-answer format, which is what is expected in the script. The two rounds, at the bottom, are equal and only the times are different or, after all, it seems so. Let us then begin and give the floor to Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u6	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u7	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u8	Mr President, I believe that the government will start the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u9	Mrs. Members, the script is really not in a position, but if these debates are equivalent to the debates with Mr. Prime Minister, then Mr. José Luís Ferreira is absolutely right. It will therefore be the government that initiates the debate and only then will the questions be raised. In fact, that's how it makes sense. Thus, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u10	I would like to congratulate you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is always interesting to test a new model of debate, which still raises regulatory and procedural doubts. I am sure that this is a good model and that the Government is here with the utmost willingness to make itself available to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We are currently living a critical phase in our health, social and economic situation. It is a time when, almost at the end of a long year of 2020, restrictive measures to combat the pandemic forced governments worldwide to apply measures with a very significant impact on economic activity, which in turn put stress on a very significant set of companies that have clearly reduced their activity and turnover. From the very first moment, the Government has defined three stages of economic policy to support businesses and families in combating this situation in the wake of the health crisis. On the one hand, during the most emergency phase, allow, despite the closure of many economic activities, to continue to provide the company with cash and employment support measures. Subsequently, already with some normalisation of economic activity, it is possible to keep employment and businesses in operation in the face of still hesitant demand and also to prepare the process of economic recovery, as soon as the health situation becomes normal. We are at the end of this difficult year, at a time when companies in many sectors have made a long-standing journey that has allowed them to maintain employment and to counter the worst forecasts of the Portuguese economy. Public support for employment and the economy is very significant and will have contributed to this. I recall that, since March this year, the Government has directed EUR 22 billion in support of the economy and employment, in support of the financing of treasury, employment and investment. At the end of November, he also launched substantial support for non-wage fixed costs through the APOIR Programme. It is EUR 22 billion in support, as I said, of which EUR 2790 million is largely lost, aimed at companies. These support, as I also said, had an effect in the third quarter. The Portuguese economy was the fourth largest in chains in the euro area as a whole, and the unemployment rate at the end of October was 7 %, compared with 8 4 % in the euro area as a whole. We are at a stage in which we are living, in the last quarter, the second wave of this pandemic, which has forced governments across Europe to launch very strict programmes of restrictions on economic activities. Portugal distinguished itself in this picture because it is probably the country that has placed fewer restrictions on economic activities. It is enough to remember that in our European congeners — Germany, France, Ireland, Belgium, Spain — restoration remains closed until January and non-essential trade remains closed in many places. Portugal was, therefore, characterized by passing the second wave — we have already surpassed this peak — with a minimum of restrictive measures. Still, we realized that there was a need for increased support at this decisive stage. It's a phase where we're starting to see the light at the bottom of the tunnel, at the health level. We have good news on several fronts. For example: vaccination programmes have already begun in some countries of the world; the United Kingdom is the first European country where it has already started the first vaccination programme for COVID-19 ; and in the rest of the European Union in January we will start vaccination programmes in significant numbers, with safe and effective vaccines. We also had good news from the European Commission yesterday with the conclusion of the agreement on the next multiannual budget of the European Union and the approval of the Next Generation EU programme. So now it is necessary to give a new breath and a new support to companies to go through these remaining months, until the full normalization of the health situation. over the past few weeks, the government has met with social partners, with business confederations, with associations representing various sectors, with unions to determine what level and nature of the increased response we should have for the next few months. We heard the same message everywhere. Firstly, the message that there was a need to maintain incentives and support for the economy in the coming months; secondly, the fact that it is important that we can give companies a predictability horizon, with regard to the nature and level of support possible. As you know, during the past months of this year, we had to take action based on developments in the health situation and also on the economic and employment situation. What we have been asked to do now is to be able to give a stable framework for companies to make their plans and better prepare for the coming times, knowing that better times will come from an economic point of view, and that they can also have important public support. So yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, the Government approved a very significant set of new support for employment and the economy, of which it would stress the extension of our employment protection schemes, including the progressive recovery support scheme. In this respect, I would stress the fact that support for the progressive recovery will allow the remuneration of workers covered by this scheme to be paid 100 % without further effort for companies. It will be the State making the effort to compensate for the level of support that is currently in force. It was also possible to adopt a measure in which companies which have workers in the progressive recovery support scheme can also extend this support to managers themselves who make discounts in these companies. Because we were told that the system of support for progressive recovery was not adapted to micro-enterprises, we were able to create an alternative to be able to count on substantial support, corresponding to two minimum wages, for each job, to be received during the next six months. The APOIAR Programme, which aims to support the costs of companies and compensate for invoicing losses over the year 2019, for the year 2020, was extended to medium-sized enterprises and also to entrepreneurs on an individual basis without organised accounting. We could also approve a non-residential rental income support programme, depending on the breakdown of turnover, which may be up to 50 % of the income for each establishment, with a limit of €2000 per month, in this case, for the entire period of the first half of this year. Finally, we have also adopted a number of important measures in the field of taxation and company financing. We had a special concern about the activities that are closed, due to legal determination, since March of this year. Everyone thinks about night entertainment establishments, but I would also like to remember other types of activities such as amusement parks and children's parks. For these, we were also able to approve and propose to the Assembly of the Republic a law on the extension of its lease contracts and an increase in the support granted to these companies under the APOIAR programme which, for small enterprises in this sector, can amount to up to EUR 100 000 in depth. Mr President, it is difficult months for those of us to pass through and it will be — we all hope — better months than we will find in the coming days. We also hope that with these support we will be able to restore a horizon of hope for companies, workers and the whole Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u11	Mrs. Members, I have consulted the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic and indeed Article 224. o — Debates with the Government, in paragraph 2 ( b ) on sectoral policy, it is said that « the debate commences with an initial intervention by the minister with responsibility for the government area on which the debate [...] follows a phase of questions from the Members developed in two rounds ». Therefore, the two rounds are equal and there is no reason for the second round to be different from the first round. Thus, both rounds follow the question-answer format. To put questions, Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, for whom you have heard today Mr Minister will seem that the pandemic started yesterday. He announced a number of proposals that make sense, it is true, and it is good that they come, because it is worth more late than ever, but the truth is that for everything he announced today, it seems that the pandemic began yesterday. When entrepreneurs say that predictability is needed, it is clear that predictability is needed; when they say that the government needs to set out ways to support companies, of course it is necessary, but it was not yesterday that this need was discovered, it was all this time. The fact is that the Minister has come here to the debate today, because he has not been present in what took place during the period of the State budget. And it is good for you to come here today to this debate! In the debate of the State budget the economy was not present, Minister. Mr. Minister was physically present, but the economy was not present. It is good that you are here today and that you come to this debate with your will. I was going to say, at the beginning of this debate, that it is worth more late than ever, but the truth is, Minister, is that there are many companies for which, when government measures come, they are no longer in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u14	But it's worth more late than ever, it's true. So when the government arrives with measures that are positive and in relation to which we have claimed all this time, it is good to do so, but let's still see how they will be implemented, because the government is always very good to announce, but then, to implement, it is more difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u16	Mr Minister, this debate has an advantage because it allows us to demonstrate evidence that is very clear to all, with the exception of the Government and the Socialist Party: the Government has failed. The government failed to prepare the response to the pandemic in the second phase. This has been a discussion over the past few months. It is true that the Government failed to respond to the effects of the pandemic in the second phase. The government was neither prepared nor prepared. What the government has done, during the summer, everyone remembers, was to think of a plan, a strategic vision for the country, which is very important — I will not discuss this issue here, it makes no sense to discuss it now, but when it is necessary to deal with the economy, deal with the country, think about the issue of strategic vision. Of course, the strategic vision, for what it is necessary for companies today, is not necessary, what it is necessary to act on companies, to act on the economy and to make decisions that support companies. When it comes to preparation, prevention, organization, anticipation, the government fails. The government fails, Minister! We said, over the nine months of the pandemic, that the government would be able to make decisions, the PSD said, throughout all this time, that the government could make decisions, but it did not. Just do it in a very shy way and now woke up and thought like this: "Well, there really is a very serious problem here, there is a very large business bankruptcy process and we need to act. Do not keep on seeking. ” What has the government done all this time? He didn't react. Or rather, he only reacted in the initial phase, to be honest. In the first two or three months, the government reacted; then it did not act. When the government was obliged to act, it did not act, Minister! We thought that the State budget for 2021 was aimed at responding to companies and that was not what happened, as it was realized. in this period, the government swung to the left side, to the PCP, and preferred to approve EUR 1000 million of additional expenditure in the State budget, rather than support the economy. Mr Minister, the question I am asking you is very simple: why has the government shown, over the course of this time, a huge inability to support the economy? But now it comes with positive measures, and we will talk about them next. Why has the Minister not prepared, over the past six months, the response to the devastating effects of this crisis? When we talk to companies, what they tell us is very different from the narrative that the government often presents. While the Minister says that he spoke to the companies, associations and that what they want is predictability, what they tell us is that support does not reach the economy, it does not reach the companies. Therefore, Mr Minister, the answer you have to give is to the question of why, while companies are desperate for support, Mr Minister has not given it and now comes with these measures. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u17	In reply, the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u18	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, I begin by responding to your initial provocation, which I have been absent from the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u19	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u20	I would like to remind the honourable Member of the speech I gave at the end of the debate, in general, of the State budget. First of all, I said that the answer we had to give to the economic situation, the support we had to give to businesses, did not end up in the State budget and that what distinguished this crisis from previous crises was the fact that, on the contrary, the governments were not solely dependent on national resources to support the economy but were able to count on European resources. I would remind you, Mr President, that we have launched over this year — and not only at the beginning — EUR 22 billion in support of the economy, of which EUR 2790 is lost. The APOIAR programme was launched early in November and we are already making payments to companies. Yesterday, we had already made 60 million euros of payments to companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u21	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u22	I would like to say, above all, that: firstly, I reminded you in this debate that the response to the crisis was not exhausted in the Budget. I also recalled that, contrary to what the PSD suggested, the answers that companies need were not, as you suggested, tax reductions. Companies in 2021 will not pay taxes. All of them are going to have big billing breaks, negative results and, therefore, it is not because of the reduction of taxes that goes there. There really needs to be support for companies, and that is what I said at that time that we should do. The honourable Member says the government is late. Look, the government has been here since the beginning, the government has always said that there were several phases of response to the pandemic, the government has always said that we would not exhaust the ammunition at first, the government has always said that there would be times when we would need to strengthen and adjust the response. That's what we've been doing over this time. At the very least, I am pleased that you recognise that the measures we are now taking are now being put forward. — are appropriate. This is also the reaction of associations and business confederations to these measures. Finally, I would not like to make clear a note which you have mentioned, according to which the Government would have failed in response to the pandemic and in responding to the effects of the pandemic on the economic and employment areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u23	And failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u24	I would like to recall that the great concern that all countries have is to ensure that health services in Portugal and the rest of the European Union have the capacity to receive patients in need of care and care. What was needed was to ensure that our health services did not break in, they did not have to choose which patients to treat, and we passed the second phase of the pandemic precisely without our health services entering into failure. Despite much tension and sacrifice on the part of the workers who give the last response to this crisis, we have overcome this situation. Finally, I wanted to say that with this crisis of an unprecedented dimension in our economic history, we have been able to pass this moment with an impact on employment less than that which affects the other countries of the European Union. Therefore, you are entitled to your assessment, but it is my opinion that this crisis has been a very intense test to all countries and economies, to all companies, and that, despite everything, we have been able to cope with this situation, thanks to the great resilience of our workers, our companies and to some extent — I hope you will also recognize it — to the support that the State has been giving to businesses and jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u25	Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u26	Mr President, Minister, the PSD recognizes that the government's initial reaction was good. Let's see! When the government put Layoff to work, we never said wrong. We have to recognize, it's true. It wasn't easy to make a difference. However, then, the government did not do well. You've had seven months in which you haven't strictly done anything! The Minister here said that he has EUR 22 billion in support of the economy. Are we kidding, Minister? Oh, my God! What's going on? Credit? Credit is economic support, it is true, but it is not government support! In the presentation made yesterday by the Minister, we are not talking about EUR 2, EUR 7 billion in full support. contrary to what the Government tells us, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) clearly says that Portugal is among the worst countries where the effects of the crisis on the economy would be stronger. Therefore, what the Government is saying is not strictly true, nor does it correspond to the perspective of international organisations. Mr Minister, I give you one more example and then, to finish, I put a very direct question to you. Regarding commercial income, a proposal was submitted yesterday. Let's see how the government is going to introduce it, because we haven't met her yet. By 2020, no proposal was submitted. Neither the Government nor the Socialist Party did anything in relation to commercial income during 2020. Subsequently, several proposals were put forward here in Parliament. So the government has done nothing about it. I'm glad you're coming now with a measure for 2021. By 2020, as I know, you have no action—if you have, please say—but we will still see for 2021 because it was presented yesterday and presenting the government is very good. I must recognize that the government is very good at making PowerPoints and presentations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u28	In the interests of businesses, people and the economy, it seems to me that you still have a lot to learn, Mr Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u29	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u30	Mr President, thank you for your question. He mentioned the OECD projections. Mr President, the most recent OECD projections stand out internationally as being completely eccentric in relation to the consensus of all other international institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u31	Eccentric? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u32	There is a point where the OECD is probably close to reality, which is the economic projections for this year. As you know, the OECD said a few months ago that Portugal was going to have a breakdown of GDP (gross domestic product) above 10 %, now it has corrected and says it will be 8, 4 %. For next year, OECD is saying that Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u33	It's from the worst countries!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u34	...will have a growth far below what all other international institutions recognize. Mr President, projections are not made! This is what happened in the third quarter to the Portuguese economy — the fourth largest growth in all of Europe — and what is happening at the moment in employment and in the growth of economic activity. Mr. Deputy asked about the rents. We can talk about it. What we are proposing to Parliament is that the extension of lease contracts should now be made to those companies which are engaged in activities which are terminated by administrative determination. With regard to the incomes of 2020, we are proposing, and we have created a mechanism of incentive for the landlords, by means of a discount on late incomes, to benefit from an immediate payment of these incomes by facilitating the long-term credit to tenants in order to be able to pay that debt. The decision taken by Parliament was that income should begin to be paid in January 2021 and we are proposing that this should be extended, but above all, that the gentlemen should be able to reach agreement with the tenants, in order to reduce their income by means of an immediate payment. I would also like to say that the Government's option of supporting commercial income is to give substantial support to tenants because we always find it difficult to interfere in the management of contracts between private parties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u35	Mr Cristovão Norte spoke in the intervening time for the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, it is paradoxical that today the Government does not bomb the Portuguese with economic support measures and, nevertheless, according to the data of the European Commission, Portugal is one of the least supportive countries to safeguard employment, the economy and the response to the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u37	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u38	That is an unforgettable fact! Portugal is in 2020 at the penultimate European level and in principle there will be only four countries whose support for the economy will be lower than the Portuguese case. One could say: "Well, Portugal did not suffer so much with the crisis and, not suffering so much with the crisis, it makes no sense to mobilize State resources for this support. Well, it's not like that. Portugal is one of the countries that suffers the most from the crisis. If it is one of the countries that suffers the most from the crisis and is one of the countries that responds less to the crisis, then it is not necessary to be a mathematical doctor to think that, either now or in the future, our companies are more likely to fail, unemployment is more likely to increase and, in principle, our economic and social fabric will feel more serious. Mr Minister, in addition to supporting less, the government creates many difficulties in accessing these support—it is almost a Kafkian process. Let me give you three examples. Mr President, with this new package you have to solve the question of the simplified regime. Why didn't you start?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u40	Mr. Minister says whoever's in layoff will take the entire salary. Why didn't you do it from the beginning? So the workers were losing wages, without that being justified, having the government conditions to pay those wages? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] As for partners-managers, go, go, quotes, quotes. So the question here is whether this package that the Minister announces will be different. Mr. Minister spoke in predictability. So I ask: can entrepreneurs be confident that the state will respond in time and that they will not find clauses with those tiny letters that Portuguese are afraid to find in those contracts that we make with banks and telecommunications? Will the government continue to put these lowercase letters in the clauses on support to exclude people and leave them completely marginalized, failing their expectations? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u41	To answer, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u42	Mr President, Mr Cristovão Norte, I confess that I no longer understand whether the Government has done anything in the course of these seven months, as Mr Afonso Oliveira said, or if so, day does not announce measures to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u43	Announcements!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u44	But I wanted to tell you the following: we are supporting individual entrepreneurs in the simplified scheme now, because we have managed, within a short period of time, to obtain a reprogramming of funds from PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020) in order to do so. I would also like to tell you that when we launched the APOIR programme, we have been working under the existing rules, which, like the honourable Members, have been working. Members know, they do not allow to support individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting. And the effort we have made over these weeks, in cooperation with the European Commission and also with a very intense relationship with the fund management authorities, was to be able to reprogramming to have new eligibilitys and to reach where we had never arrived before. The APOIAR Programme, which was EUR 750 million and is now reinforced to EUR 900 million, is probably the largest operation ever made over more than three decades of European accession and executed within a very short period of time. We have also now been able to look for more EUR 300 million to support commercial income. All of this is unpublished, to which many people in various services, public services and services of the European Commission have spent many hours working to achieve this result. Work, Mr. Deputies! That's all I meant. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u45	It's true! Work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u46	Mr Cristovão Norte continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u47	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, governing works, it is a fact! And the government could have worked better. And he didn't work, nor does he work, unfortunately. [[PSD applause.]] But, Minister, I would like to ask you another question. The Minister welcomed here the fact that the alleged EUR 22 billion of support — and that the Government has made it known that most of them are moratoriums, so there are only EUR 2 million and EUR 790 thousand in 2020, which is basically lost and, except for mistake, EUR 1400 million in 2021 — are a great fact because many of the business problems have been solved. Now, Minister, it is important that we put things in perspective.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u48	Mr President, as long as it is spent more in this round it will be withdrawn in the near future to your parliamentary group. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u49	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr Minister, yesterday we learned that in the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), there will be expenditure of EUR 3, EUR 2 billion, probably largely lost—and that says all, Minister. That is what he wanted the Minister to reflect, which reflected on the priorities of the government and whether these companies, which have not been supported for nine months, are not strategic, as the Government says the TAP is. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u50	To answer, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u51	Mr President, Mr Cristóvão Norte, I am not going to comment on the question you have raised about TAP, but I want to tell you the following: for companies that need to pay accounts, the credits we have been extending to the economy are very important; for companies that are struggling to keep the doors open, to stop paying the bank is very important. EUR 22 billion includes the deferral of contributions to social security and taxes, including financing, including support for deep-lost investment, including a range of solutions for companies, which Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u52	It's not the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u53	...but that in the lives of many and many entrepreneurs made the difference between being open or being closed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u54	We moved on to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the pandemic situation has had serious consequences in the economy, and we have been dealing with a pandemic crisis for several months now, but also with a social and economic crisis. However, this social and economic crisis was expected, within some forecasting models, so the measures to respond to needs could and should have arrived sooner and in different formats. Mr Minister, until yesterday's presentation and today's presentation of further measures to support the economy, does the Government not consider that these measures are already late for many businesses and many workers? It is just that, Mr Minister, we have passed the first wave of the pandemic, we are still going through the second wave and there are those who are already talking about the possibility of a third wave, and the Government is only now presenting a little more robust proposals and going a little further to the meeting of what has been claimed, although not yet in its entirety. So my question is this: why only now? Why only in December, at the end of the year? The Minister has already mentioned here several times the three-phase response plan to the economic crisis, but the fact is that since very early in this House too, it has been noted that it was necessary to go further and that this three-phase plan might not respond as it should, and in good time, to businesses and workers. And if, at the beginning of the pandemic, the measures to complete that first battle were relevant, such as credit lines or moratoriums, it was also soon realized — and we had this debate several times — that its logic could be, in the long term, detrimental to the economy itself, because they settle in the accumulation of debt. Therefore, even since very early on, the Left Block has proposed measures that go further and insisted that the answers should arrive more quickly at the need to assist not only the treasury of companies, for example — from the first stage it was very much talked about, but there was a great difficulty in reaching this concrete support to the treasury of companies, particularly in those most affected sectors — but also the maintenance of employment and wages. Again, these are proposals in which the Left Block insists practically since April, but whose large part, also successively, has not been welcomed. The second pandemic wave, as I mentioned earlier, was already a certainty several months ago, and became an absolute certainty when it began to occur in other countries with certain consequences. What is surprising, therefore, in the midst of this debate is that the Government, despite all the warnings received throughout the summer and even before the summer, only now, in December, has created these extraordinary devices, whose need was long in advance, and yet not in all of what would be necessary. We can talk about sectors such as restoration, culture, sport, tourism and so many other activities that have been limited for a long time in their normal functioning. The data of the INE ( National Institute of Statistics) are there to be analyzed and, in fact, indicate a very great difficulty on the part of these companies, due to the reduction in turnover in most of them. In the case of restoration, we know that it has been one of the most wooded sectors and also with a great difficulty in reaching support. And this is something that I wanted to leave to you, because successively in this Parliament we have talked about the difficulty of accessing various types of support and, to answer that, the government continues to announce new support, without the previous ones being able to reach a large part of these companies and workers. Therefore, one cannot see that we are constantly in front of announcements and more announcements of more packages of economic support measures, when effectively the complaints continue to arrive. Therefore, Mr Minister, the first question is very simple: when the scenarios were so expected of the impact on the economy, when the alerts were made successively in the Assembly of the Republic, but also by several associations representative of the sectors and workers, why come so late? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u56	To answer, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u57	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, before coming to the government, when she had a few kilos less, I used to run, make road races, sometimes with long distances. And one of the things I learned very early was that, when you take a long run, you have to do your effort, otherwise you can't get to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u58	And you know where the goal is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u59	If you remember, right at the beginning of this pandemic, what Mr. Prime Minister told all Portuguese was that this situation would not disappear in 15 days, it would not disappear in a few months, it would be a situation that would be normalized only when we had effective treatment or a vaccine or reached group immunity, but never, probably, before spring, will be 2021 and perhaps until later. So also from the very first moment, we said that we had to do the effort, that we had to adapt the answers to the situation as if it were characterizing. I am convinced that, if we had used all the resources at first, when companies still had reservations, when we still did not have the exact perception of what would be the impact after the first wave, we would have difficulty now. What we did was exactly this: a large dose of support in the second trimester, which coincided with the biggest contraction, less support in the third trimester, which was the quarter of great growth of the economy, and strengthening support in the fourth trimester, where we again have some slowdown. And this is also the time to allow companies and workers to stay in the next few months. The honourable Member will say that it is late, she will say that there have already been some companies and some jobs that have already been lost, and that is true. I am convinced that we have to go with these answers in order to try to maximize their effectiveness and ensure that our companies maintain a horizon of hope in their functioning. I believe that what we were able to approve yesterday in the Council of Ministers gives tens of thousands of companies precisely a horizon of hope to be able to face the next few months with other confidence, also knowing that the next few months are not only the beginning of the vaccination programme, but also the beginning of the European economic recovery programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u60	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u61	Mr President, Mr Minister, in the race, like everything else in life, timing is important, it is true. But all the economic books also tell us that, when we arrive too late in the responses to a certain crisis that has a certain predictability, regardless of factors that may change, it becomes more difficult then the part of such a recovery that the government has spoken so much about. So what happens is that the government is getting late in such a dose that the government so much likes to talk about. It is late, so we may not have companies that can even get to the part of the recovery, because, in the past nine months, they have not had certain support, or they can get to the start with a level of unemployment which is not too damaging to the country and the economy itself. Therefore, the problem of timing is precisely this: that the government is getting late to the answers that were and are necessary for us to have a prospect of resumption and of the future that no longer had so many difficulties created, not only to the Portuguese business fabric, which is in its vast majority of micro-enterprises, but above all, and most importantly, to the social side, to the destruction of employment. But, Minister, there are some very concrete issues that still remain in doubt about some sectors or some failures that may be identified here. Firstly, independent workers. We are very concerned that independent workers may continue to be excluded from the various support mechanisms that are being created. I therefore ask: what does the government expect for this sector? With regard to management partners, the Government now announces that they can benefit from support for progressive recovery. But that could still leave a lot out of it. So I ask: why not put them in a more comprehensive context from the point of view of support? Another problem which has been identified, and which we ourselves have already put to the Minister, has to do with performance plans, in particular the Tax Authority ( AT ). There are cases of companies that are being excluded from this support, when the law indicates that, when there is a benefit plan, the company is not necessarily in debt, it is, indeed, carrying out its payment plan, and therefore should not be excluded from these support. Finally, Mr Minister, another very important issue concerns the counterparties announced yesterday by the Government in respect of the rise of the national minimum wage. The very concrete question is whether we will not be in front of guarantees that the government will give that it will not be the workers losing part of their contribution career with this compensation that is being given to companies by increasing the minimum wage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u62	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u63	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, starting with her last point, I will say that what we wanted to achieve was a strengthening of the minimum wage even in this year of crisis, because we consider that the minimum wage is not only a condition of dignity of work but also a very important form of economic response. Internal consumption has been what the economy has made in the third quarter, that is what will continue to pull by the economy in the next quarters and the minimum wage will make a very important contribution for this to happen. at the same time, we know that companies are in a difficult situation, and that is why, in fact, we are directing a lot of support. We would like to allocate additional support to companies related to this increase, but it is not a TSU exemption ( single social rate ). Companies continue to pay TSU, the social security budget does not lose a toll because of this measure. What happens is that the State budget will transfer to the companies a certain amount of money, which is related to the amount of the TSU, plus, resulting from the increase in the minimum wage. As regards the issue which has raised in order to know whether timing is late, it seems to us that the important thing is to ensure at every moment that the largest number of companies continue to operate. So it seems to us that if we had spent all the ammunition at first, we would have difficulty right now. The recovery will only happen for one reason: when there is normalization of the health situation, when we no longer have to make constraints on the movement of people. The British Minister of Health said: "We started the vaccination program so that the British can have a summer as they have always been used to. » It is because we want to have, in summer, the possibility of the British returning to Portugal, as they have always done. That is why the full economic recovery will result in the normalization of the health situation. These support is to be managed, allowing companies to pass this very difficult period. On the situation of self-employed people, as you know, in the State budget for this year, on the one hand, we have approved an extraordinary social benefit, to which independent workers have access, and on the other, also under Article 112. the State Budget Act extended support to self-employed persons, who now have the choice between one hypothesis and another. On the performance plans, any company with an existing performance plan is subject to the regularised situation in front of AT and social security and therefore has access to support. What the honourable Member is probably referring to is a different situation, it is in relation to that company that still has the situation in the computer system of these entities as being irregular and is negotiating a performance plan. Performance plans for debt up to €10 000 of legal persons have an extremely simplified procedure. What we also wanted to do now, and this represents a response to messages we have received from several areas, is to allow these support to be approved in the condition of regularizing the situation before the tax and social security, in particular through the conclusion of performance agreements. We therefore answer the question that has been raised to us in particular, but I would like to tell you that whoever has a performance plan is benefiting from State support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u64	We moved on to the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, I begin by reading a very brief letter, which has been sent, I am sure, for all parties and for the government, too. He says: "I am reformed by disability, I have opened a coffee in February this year, I have not written organized and I have my wife at home since the beginning of the pandemic, because the company closed doors. I am very desperate, because I have asked for support everywhere and they shut the door on my face, for being reformed and having coffee a short time ago, not having written organized. I've always done my taxes since my 12 years, and I've paid my taxes. I'm not able to bear the rents, the light and the water and all the expenses inherent. Invest all the money I could save in this business and I'm going to have to close doors and stay in misery, with very high debts, with these hours, closing at 22 p.m. and closing on Saturdays and Sundays. The White Castle Chamber does not support, nor social security, any state institution helps me in this situation. Why? I'm Portuguese, I've always paid my taxes and paid. One of the good intervention of you in the resolution of the matter, I agree with the most respectful compliments. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Minister, Mr. Government members, these are small concrete cases, which are multiplied by thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in this country who, during this year 2020, have suffered in a very serious way — and we will not develop the adjectives in relation to the difficulties these companies have been experiencing and that their workers, in these small enterprises, have also suffered. Mr President, a few years ago he gave the example, which has emerged several times, of the race and the management of the effort that takes place in a race. Mr Minister, one thing is a morning race that takes place in a track or park training, another thing is to run after damage in a context of grave problems and uncertainty aggravated by the decisions taken by the government itself. In the name of combating the pandemic, restrictions, prohibitions, conditioning to economic activity have been disproportionate, contradictory, without confirmation of the effects that could result from them and, in addition to disproportionate and contradictory, have been zigging, throwing uncertainty and confusion on people's lives. There are dramatic problems which are being experienced by companies and which could have been avoided if other decisions were made by the government. But on the contrary, they were aggravated by the decisions of the « ban », « limit », « suspend », which are systematically the translation of the state of emergency. The truth is that the PSD, which has approved here all the statements of the state of emergency and its restrictive measures, then complains of its effects and slaps on the back to the entrepreneurs of the restaurant, hotel, tourism or trade, which ruines their decisions. In fact, we must not fail to point out that here, once again, it is confirmed that it is worth fighting, Mr. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. We recall that, in the same week when the Government announced the ban on the activity of trade fairs and markets for the lifts at the end of that week, the prohibition was lifted and the decision was taken in another way, with the intervention of the municipalities, without that general ban which the Government itself advocated. We have not forgotten the case of this merchant who went to the House complaining of having denied support and closed doors because he had no organized accounting, had a simplified regime, or because he had opened an establishment in February and was out of access to support — this discrimination that was decided by the government. I recall that the Minister here in the House confirmed a few months ago that the APOIAR Programme itself, the new measure which was being launched by the government, was not accessible to companies in the simplified regime. Why did he become eligible? Because the CFP proposed in the State budget the non-discrimination of companies in access to support and this measure was approved. The PSD has abstained from the proposal of the CFP, but the CFP has been approved and that is why these measures now become accessible to companies in the simplified regime and which have opened their doors not necessarily in previous years, but which have already begun to operate this year. They are eligible, that is what is approved in the budget article and that is what we value. Now, the fundamental question is how it is regulated and how this type of option and this type of political guidance is being implemented. The same is true of the payment on behalf of IRC ( income tax for the public ). I am not with the Minister of Finance in front of me and, yes, with the Minister of Economic Affairs, but there is a government option and guidance that determines how this also important measure will be implemented, which is not to place companies, precisely because they have completely different economic results than those of previous years, to pay the advance tax as if they were in previous years. Therefore, the suspension of payment on account, which the CFP proposed and which the House approved, is also an important measure. The question is to know to what extent and to what extent these important but insufficient decisions are being made. We also appreciate an aspect that cannot be overemphasized, which is the fact that there is a guarantee of full pay to workers in the layoff situation. When we see that even for companies, purchasing power is a fundamental variable for their sales, because only what wages can buy can be sold, we are aware that support for micro and small businesses to ensure that full pay capacity is also an urgent and necessary matter. It is important to know how far these measures are being implemented. There are several things that the CFP has been putting on the table that continue to carry out, have not won, have not won. The PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u66	Mr President, you are already entering the time of the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u67	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the case with VAT (the value added tax) of the restaurant, which we propose to be reduced for all services and products and this proposal has not expired. It is the demonstration that, in fact, there is much to be done, to work and to fight, and these proposals from the CFP continue to be up to date. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u68	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u69	Mr. President, Mr. Bruno Dias, your owner. We had a debate in the Commission called for by the CFP on support for micro and small enterprises and, indeed, many of the issues that you mentioned here were raised by you at that very hearing and which we are having, let us say, acceptance in measures which the Government has approved. He's done a lot of work! It is good to have intentions, it is good to aim not at 100 000 companies, but at 230 000 companies, which means enlargement to individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting, in these supported sectors. Work! We need to find resources, we need to regulate and we can't always do everything we want to do. But his owner, as he said! I would also like to point out that the final answer to this pandemic will be science. I have studied, I have read a lot about the Asian flu of the 1950s and the pneumonic flu of 1918 / 1919 and, above all, the latter is very interesting. At the time, science was not what it is today, there was no knowledge of the existence of viruses, there was no hospital care of the quality that we have today, so this flu was absolutely devastating — 5% of the world's population ended up dying, as a result of this disease. However, when countries are faced with a disease caused by a virus that was still unknown, the initial response that is given, to save time for health services to respond, is exactly the same as that given 100 years ago, is exactly the same as that which humanity knows for infectious diseases, over the centuries: restrictions on economic activities, restrictions on contacts, and this has happened throughout Europe. I will not discuss whether the restrictive measures are correct or not. in this regard, as you will understand, the Minister for Economic Affairs brings concerns to the Council of Ministers regarding certain sectors in particular. We have taken a lot of attention to the issue of roaming entertainment equipment, we have taken a lot of attention to fairs and lift markets, we have taken a lot of attention to retail trade, food trade, we have been involved in the development of rules of conduct for many of these matters in conjunction with the various sectors. I had the opportunity to intervene myself, within the powers which were assigned to me, in order to allow the presidents of the chambers to determine whether or not fairs and lift markets were held, whether or not the installation of roaming entertainment equipment and to intervene, also in the regulation of specific restrictions placed on the sectors of restoration, cosmetics, retail trade and the housing sector, also. All this is a contribution we make to a collective response. But I also wanted to say the following: in all the restrictions on economic activities, between the European countries, Portugal has distinguished itself because it is probably the one that imposes less restrictions. unlike almost all other countries in Europe, never in Portugal was closed industrial activity, never in Portugal was closed tourist accommodation activity, never in Portugal was closed civil construction activity and public works, and this allowed to keep some functioning. in this second wave, in Portugal, did not close the restoration, did not close the non-food trade. We had time constraints, yes, in order to reduce the probability of contacts and thus reduce the contagions. I do not know whether or not it was because of these measures, but the truth is that the peak of this second wave is already behind us and we were able to pass that peak without clogging our health services and without creating that situation that we saw in many countries in Europe, which was the health services they had to choose which patients they were dealing with. We had moments of great tension, but we never got to that end. I would therefore like to say that it is not up to me to say whether restrictions on economic activities and social activity are appropriate or not, but I can make a comparison with what has happened in other European countries and realize that, despite everything, we have had less constraints. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u70	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, asked questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u71	Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the Minister, Pedro Siza Vieira, and the other members of the Government, the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, there are a number of issues that I would like to ask you about TAP, not with regard to restructuring, but with regard to the impact of TAP on our economy. Mr Minister is Minister of State and my first question has to do with that. What we know today is that, during a pandemic period, and by a left-wing government, we will have in TAP the one that will be the greatest public dismissal since 25 April 1974. We also know that this public dismissal has a face, has a face and is called Pedro Nuno Santos. After listening to Mr Prime Minister yesterday, after hearing Mr Prime Minister today, I ask him whether the Government maintains its confidence in the Minister of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u72	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u73	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, as you know, I do not have the responsibility to follow up the TAP file, but I can tell you this: TAP, like all world airlines and in particular all European airlines, has prepared a restructuring plan in the face of the market situation that it is creating. This restructuring plan was accompanied by the Government, the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing and the Minister of Finance, and was assessed by the Council of Ministers on two perspectives. First perspective: is TAP a strategic enterprise for the Portuguese economy to justify that we seek to keep it at the service of Portugal and the Portuguese economy? And the answer was yes. The second perspective was this: whether or not there is a possibility, conditions and means, to place TAP on a path of economic sustainability and long-term viability? in what the Council of Ministers could appreciate, the plan that has been presented to it, and which will now have to be discussed with the European Commission, is a plan that addresses all relevant issues, from traffic estimates to the company's costs and operational capacity, to enable the Government to realize that the support that can be justified to a strategic undertaking is not done without ensuring that the company remains viable in the long term. And in that respect, the whole government is supportive. That is what I wanted to tell you, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u74	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, please proceed with your questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u75	Mr President, Minister, still with regard to TAP, and in terms of what is the economic impact, it was important to explain to the Portuguese, and I think that no one has yet succeeded, but the Minister, surely, can transmit it here in Parliament, why it is necessary to inject so many millions into TAP. What is the economic impact of this and what is the impact of the TAP on our economy? It will certainly not only be to preserve jobs, there is a whole set of economic implications that it is important to explain. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you this question. At the same time, and in order to finish this issue, I would like to ask you whether, in the Government's view, the TAP, after passing this trajectory and this restructuring, should be public or private. What is the government's intention? The intention is then to open the capital to private or is to maintain the TAP with the actionist structure and representation of the state that currently has, or what will it soon have? Now, and because there is much talk about the nationalisation of TAP, I would also like to ask you whether the nationalisation of TAP is compatible with the rules of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u76	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u77	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, as you will understand, I will not reply to you on the plan for restructuring the TAP, until, as far as I know, it has already been discussed and presented to the various parliamentary groups and will even be presented publicly today by the Minister of Infrastructure. What I can tell you, as Minister of Economics, is that, either with the Ministry of Economics' Office of Strategy and Studies or with an international consultant, McKinsey, we have been making the assessment of which sectors critical to the growth of the Portuguese economy, depending on the impact the pandemic is having, which companies we should focus our attention on, because if they disappear the damage to the Portuguese economy, in their whole, will be very high. And I can tell you that both analyses coincide with the following: the air transport sector is one of the most critical...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u78	What about culture? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u79	... for the future of the Portuguese economy and TAP is probably of the most important companies for the country. And this can be characterized in various ways. Look, we say we need more Autoeuropas, because it is important to have Autoeuropa, but before we attract other Autoeuropas, we need to maintain Autoeuropa in Portugal. It is a company that, last year, has billed EUR 3700 million; it is a company that, last year, was a large exporter, had very significant exports; it is a company that pulls by a set of national suppliers that incorporate components into the products they sell out. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Comparing this company with TAP, letting TAP disappear was like letting Autoeuropa disappear, or worse. Last year, TAP billed EUR 3400 million, TAP purchased 1700 Portuguese companies last year—and I am not talking about fuel—and fed important value chains, which was very significant. TAP is one of the largest domestic exporters. Whenever an American flies from the United States to Italy, to Greece, to France, using the TAP and the hub of Lisbon, it is increasing national exports. Whenever a Portuguese travels abroad on an airline, imports increase. Therefore, TAP contributes a lot to the national economy and to qualified employment throughout the value chain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u80	They want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u81	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira continue to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u82	Mr President, Minister, I bring you here another topic that has to do with...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u83	There comes the TAP again!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u84	He's very nervous! I know the Socialist Party is very nervous about TAP, but the Portuguese are also nervous to know exactly what's going to happen at TAP, Mr. Mr Minister, thanking you for your answers, I would like to hear about the impact of banking moratoriums on the banking system itself. We know that, in September next year, bank moratoriums are over. These bank moratoriums have had an impact on the balance sheet of the banks themselves, as the Minister knows, at the level of what remuneration is, because they do not have interest from these same moratoriums. This creates an imbalance in the balance sheets of the banks themselves. What I would like to know, Minister, was, on the one hand, what is envisaged at this level and what is the concern that the Government has with the banking system or not. On the other hand, within the framework of the moratoriums on families and businesses — and, in the case of families, more than EUR 500 million has already been paid under these same moratoriums — on 1 October, there are families who may continue to have no capacity to bear these values. This is a concern of the CDS and, therefore, Minister, I would like to hear your position on the matter, and, as you only have 13 seconds, I can give you the rest of the time you had, which is another 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u85	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u86	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, the banking moratoriums were obviously a very important measure and the government is very concerned about this, indeed the government is very concerned about the banking system situation because the government knows that instability in the financial sector is, in time, instability in the economy and in the public finances and therefore these matters must be treated very carefully.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u87	We agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u88	What the Government believes is that, during the next half of the year, after the companies close their accounts, we must have a systemic solution to capitalisation and strengthening the capitals of companies in order to prevent them from entering into non-compliance and contaminating the banking sector. We also know that at the level of the European Union itself these issues are being watched very carefully because the problem is not only Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u89	As with the parliamentary groups, in the second round, the government's time will be properly adjusted. Mrs Inês Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u90	Mr President, Mr Minister, in our view, there is a question which has not yet been raised and which seems to us to be extremely important. It is true that the short-term responses that need to be given to this crisis are emerging, but there is a structural view of the economic recovery, in particular the conversion of the model in which we live and grow, which seems to us to be undisturbed. The country began with a vision brought by the PSD/CDS government, which was maintained by the PS, very based on an unmeasured and environmentally questionable tourism, which brought with it pressure to cities and a crisis, at housing level, quite deep, also based on an option by the gold visas which, in our view, is not justifiable. And, Mr Minister, given the precariousness of the links that this also brought us, it seems to us that a more diversified economy would be absolutely fundamental. We understand that the need for a response to the crisis required short-term measures, but, after nine months of this deeper health crisis, it makes no sense to have a completely stopped economic sector, which represents more than 8 % of Portuguese business fabric, without the possibility of resuming its activity. We know that many companies will stay behind and therefore we need to have a medium and long-term view of how we will convert these activities. And that is the answer we are hoping to hear today, Minister: what is the way to a more sustainable economic model, from a social and environmental point of view, that the Government intends to bring to the country? What is required, at this time, is to take advantage of this calm of the tourist boom that has been felt, for example, Mr Minister, in some way, we will think of how we will convert these activities. The tourist load capacity studies were never done, and had already been discussed and approved here. Will the government take advantage of this moment to understand how we will convert these activities and bet on a greater territorial and social cohesion? What is the impact of tourism and what kind of tourism do we want for the country in the future? Do we want a higher quality tourism? Are we going to miss this opportunity and continue to bet on the path of unsustainability, Minister? Are we going to do or not, and when, the study of the strategic environmental assessment, which was approved in the Budget, to effectively understand which future path we want? Is the conversion of labour in the sectors which have so far pursued a logic of social and environmental sustainability, or is it not re-thinking, obviously not compromising the aspirations of workers who remain active? For the NAP it is essential that the Government also respond to these concerns, so we would like to know whether or not it is available to do this work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u91	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u92	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I understand your concerns, but I also realize that, at a time when the Portuguese economy is being very whipped, precisely by the lack of tourists, it is... I will not say... I have difficulty saying that tourism is bad for the country. I'm not entirely convinced of that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm not entirely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u93	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u94	However, I would like to say two or three things. First of all: the Portuguese economy has made a path of great diversification in recent years. We increased the exports of goods, we increased the exports of services, we began to export more complex goods and services even more complex. Therefore, tourism grew as all export activity and the whole economy grew. The awareness we have is not that the model we have used in tourism in recent years has been an inadequate model. We are aware that the tourism model we want in the future must be different from the one that has brought us advantages in the past. That is why we have launched — and must be aware of it — a discussion two weeks ago on the strategy for sustainable tourism, in which we want to rethink precisely how we can support the re-qualification of our assets and our offer, ensure its sustainability, circularity and better efficiency in the use of resources and how we can manage, within cities, tourist flows and which not only through its reduction but above all by spreading throughout the territory and throughout the year. We want to see how we can contribute so that the tourist activity, in which Portugal must continue to distinguish itself, is also characterized by better rates of sustainability and social responsibility. We are fulfilling the Action Plan for the Circular Economy also in the tourism sector and still yesterday we approved the launch of a line of support for the qualification of the tourist offer that is particularly focused on the re-qualification of our tourism equipment in terms of sustainability and efficiency in the use of resources. The launching of the strategy itself provides that, for some destinations, it may be necessary to carry out load capacity studies. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we need to think about how to ensure more valuable and sustainable tourism for the future, but we must not, I repeat, at this particular time, think about or equalise tourism as something that the country suffers from. On the contrary, I would say that we are now suffering from a lack of tourists. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u95	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real continued to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u96	President, Minister, very honestly, it is not serious the comment you have made, because what we have called into question is precisely the country's unsustainability to depend excessively on tourism and not to bet on economic diversity. These were my words, and that's what you were talking about. But with regard to micro and small enterprises, Minister, and because there are still very important issues to be mentioned, we know that the support that has been given has not been sufficient. For example, giving companies two minimum wages for each worker will not solve the existing cash problems, nor will it allow them to cope with revenue breaks — despite the goodness of the initiative, that is not what is at stake here. What we would like to know is whether or not the government is available to, taking into account the economic difficulty many sectors are experiencing, think of creating direct support, which is largely lost and in the form of a single cash provision, corresponding to 50 % of the losses of the average revenue of invoicing, which have been verified compared to 2019, and whether it is available to discuss and work with the Assembly of the Republic these proposals. With regard to the situation these companies are facing, we have heard that it is not long ago that anyone who has social benefits plans will be able to benefit from the support. However, Mr Minister, who receives nothing and will be in debt, in particular to the State, is not receiving these support and we cannot demand from whom nothing receives that continues to pay and continues to be a taxpayer, unless there is direct support. Therefore, this path must also be made and we would like to know if it is available for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u97	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize to you if perhaps my comment might have seemed excessive in relation to the statement you made. What I meant is that Portugal is not a country that is too dependent on tourism. Portugal, like many European countries, has a natural specialisation in tourism, our history and natural and demographic conditions. So this is what I wanted to say and clarify. With regard to support for micro and small enterprises, we are not only providing support for the maintenance of employment. We are giving support, largely lost, to compensate for invoicing losses in 2020 and we are also providing support, at the very bottom, so that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( MPMEs) can have access to support for the payment of income, which is the most important fixed cost they have and face. We must not compensate for all the losses of turnover, we must compensate for the fixed costs not recovered by turnover, which are essentially the costs of wages and, among other costs, above all, the cost of income. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u99	We moved on to the ENP Parliamentary Group. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the restaurant, hotel and tourism workers promoted yesterday a day of struggle to avoid the worsening situation, which is beginning to be dramatic. In fact, the measures to close and change the normal functioning of restaurants, cafes and other establishments which the Government has approved are creating many difficulties for these workers. It is therefore important to know what intervention the Government is considering to support these workers, ensuring jobs and their wages, to avoid further this social drama that actually starts giving signs of life. Then, Mr Minister, today, in front of the Ministry of Economics, there will be a concentration of micro and small business entrepreneurs, where there are also small restaurants entrepreneurs. At the origin of this concentration is the fact that these small entrepreneurs consider that the minimising measures that the Government has taken for the restoration sector are not a solution, because they are insufficient. On the other hand, a delegation from the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (CPPME ) and also entrepreneurs of the restaurant intend to be received today by the Minister of Economy. I would therefore like to know whether the Minister will receive these small entrepreneurs and whether he will receive them today. And now, knowing that the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has requested an urgent meeting with the Minister about one month on 15 November, with a view to examining the set of extraordinary measures to support companies, in particular the restoration sector, I wonder whether this confederation has already received a response from the Government to this request for a meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u101	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u102	Mr President, Mr President, I admit that there has been this request for a meeting. I don't know him personally, but I'll check it out. With regard to the restoration sector, as you know, a great concern that we have had with the measures we have now announced was precisely to support the restoration sector and other sectors that are particularly affected by this situation. But, Mr, these are not so much the measures of the government, they are not so much the restrictions that the government determines that causes negative impacts on restoration. The biggest problem we have is that people stay home. People are working remotely, they're not going to their place of work and, therefore, they're not going to the restaurants. So what I want to tell you is that we are aware of this situation. at present, one of the measures adopted in the State budget, as you know, was that support for the maintenance of the employment of catering workers and other sectors should ensure the payment of 100 % wages — that is what is now enshrined. On the other hand, we intend to support entrepreneurs in the micro sector or even small and medium-sized entrepreneurs with the main fixed costs they have, which are incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u103	Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u104	Mr President, Minister, of course it is not harmless a measure that leaves only one restaurant open until 1 p.m. for example. Therefore, of course, this has reflections on the wage level as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u106	However, Mr Minister, I have another issue concerning the measures which Mr Minister referred to in his speech at the opening of this debate. The Government approved yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, some instruments to support, in depth, the sectors most affected by the exceptional measures taken in the context of combating the pandemic. these instruments include direct support in the form of subsidies to meet costs with non-residential incomes of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises whose activity is included in the sectors most affected by the exceptional measures approved in the context of combating the pandemic. As we understand, even for what Mr Minister mentioned in his initial speech, these support can reach up to 50% for incomes up to the limit of €4000 per month for six months. We also know that these support will be scaled up. What it is worth knowing, in terms of percentage and according to the data available to the Government, is the universe of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that can remain on the radar of these supports, i.e., what is the universe of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in terms of percentage, which is within this limit of €4000 per month. Finally, when do these applications become definitely operational and available and when does the government expect to make their payments?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u107	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u108	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, income support does not work with an income limit of €4000. The way it works is as follows: companies that, for 2019, have invoice breaks exceeding 25 % have a support of 30 % of the monthly income value, with a limit of 1200 €. Companies with a turnover breakdown of more than 40 % have a substantial loss of 50 % of the income paid for 6 months with the limit of 2000 €. What I meant at my press conference, and I apologize if there was a mistake, is that whoever has a income of up to 4000 € will receive a support that corresponds exactly to 50 %. I mean, if I have an income of 3000 €, I'm entitled to 50 %, i.e., I get 1500 €. Therefore, only income exceeding €4000 is that they end up not receiving entirely. If it is an income of 5000 €, I will only receive 2000 €, which no longer corresponds to 50 %. We have made this limit and are very comfortable with this limit, Mr. The overwhelming majority of non-residential income in Portugal concerns very lower values. The average income that exists in Portugal is about 1200 € and there are very few cases of incomes greater than 4000 €. Someone told me that these expensive incomes are in 30 arteries in Portugal. Therefore, we are convinced that this measure will enable us to support, within the limits we have foreseen, the overwhelming majority of non-residential incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u109	We passed on to Mr. André Ventura, from arrive. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, the Minister said today that Portugal has had the least restrictive measures in Europe and is therefore a case of success. In fact, he responded to the PSD saying that this is consensual in international studies. For I will tell you that apart from the OECD that Portugal is in the worst examples of fighting the pandemic — which Mr. Minister has devalued — Bloomberg puts us in 33. in 53 cases and a Cambridge study puts us in 25. the place in 33 cases, in the worst response to the pandemic. I think we can say that the Socialist Government has failed in combating the pandemic and it will not be wrong to say so, according to international studies. But today I would like to ask you the following, Minister: I would like to say that the TSU is one thing and the TSU is another. He came to say that the government is available to return TSU to companies. I ask you how much is the share of TSU available for return to Portuguese companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u111	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u112	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, I didn't even understand what the study was referring to. I didn't talk about any success cases. It's not the language I use. What I referred to was the following: Portugal was one of the countries of Europe which made it less awkward in the measures to restrict economic activity. We do not stop the industry, as now, in this second wave, we will not close the restoration or non-essential trade. That's what I said. In terms of measures restricting economic activity, we ended up restricting less than other countries. As regards the question of TSU, what I said, and I maintain, is that the intention of the Government is to return to the companies the corresponding amount or close to what is the increased TSU that they will have to bear because of this increase in the minimum wage. We intend to do so in a single payment for all the increase over the year. We expect it to be already operational in the first quarter and the exact value, although not yet closed, must be close to the value of TSU. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u113	Mr André Ventura continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u114	Mr President, Minister, the truth is that it may have been less restrictive measures, but it was the most absurd of Europe, such as the one in which we had to close restaurants at 13 hours and similar things. Mr Minister is not the Minister of TAP Restructuring and has already said so today, but he has talked about TAP several times. Yesterday he said that the excessive costs compared to European congeners were much higher in the TAP. He also spoke on the question of wages. So I'm going to ask you frankly and very directly: do you think it makes sense to make wage cuts when TAP makes absurd contracts of external counseling, some of them scandalously political, as we came to know last year? Do you think it makes sense to cut off and fire, when we have an effective efficiency problem in the TAP, how is it that we pay tens of millions behind schedule, every month, I repeat, every month, in an airline? And now we are presenting to the Portuguese to say that there is only one solution, cut and fire, because that is what we know to do, when, in fact, we have millions of inefficiencies to pay per month, millions of excessive costs with external advisers and no one in the government is able to play. That, yes, is a question that should be answered to all Portuguese today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u115	In reply, Mr Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u116	Mr President, Mr Ventura, it is bad to close the restaurants at the weekend at 1 p.m. but it is worse to be permanently closed until January, as is the case in most European countries. With regard to TAP, I have already said that I will not present the restructuring plan that Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing presented to the parliamentary groups and that he will subsequently do so publicly. But I can say the following: Lufthansa, for example, has not only determined a reduction in the number of workers by almost 20 %, and it will still continue, as it cut the wages of the pilots by 45 % and of the other workers by 25 %. This is what is happening in the world aviation industry, which has to adapt to a circumstance in which indeed the planes are on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u117	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u118	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is a pleasure to have you here in a sectoral debate. This is because I had not realized, when the fifteen-year debates ended, that these sectoral debates have a great advantage, since there is always a package on the eve or on the eve of the day and in any package, however bad it is, there are good things like hearing Mr Minister say, in the presentation, that the money that was being distributed is not from the state, it is from the national community itself. I'm going to metaphrase: the money isn't from the state, it's from the people. And there are other good things, although a little late: the correction of the APOIAR Programme, covering now, at last, the entrepreneurs in the individual name without organized accounting, starting to include, at the start, the partners-managers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u119	Let the PCP propose!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u120	... without needing to be here for weeks, in Parliament, to include them, no longer requiring prior regularization of the situation before the Tax Authority or social security or to demand positive own capital or even a shy one, I repeat, a shy one, extension of the size of the companies that access such support. All this is positive. But this package continues with almost irrecoverable defects. It's a nameless complexity. I challenge someone to pick up these 35 slides that were presented, go to the companies that are able to access these supports and ask them where they fit. It is unknown the Portuguese business fabric to think this complexity is comportable! He's shy! of the 29 billion euros which Mr Minister says until the end of 1. the 2021 semester will distribute, less than 15 % are thoroughly lost. That is, in practice, EUR 25 billion will end up increasing the indebtedness of the national economy, which, as you know, is already a problem. It's contradictory! So far, no big company was accessing any support. In the State budget, several measures excluded large companies. For the first time, recognizing, once again, late, there appears a line of credit with access to large companies, which is fundamental to Portuguese economic growth and which are the ones that best wages can pay. And finally, it continues to treat the state much better than it does people. From now on, in taxation, it presents those two small measures to defer VAT and suspend executions — go there, suspend the tax and social security executions during a quarter. What he does, for example, is to continue to prevent redundancies in all private companies using support, however, he is preparing to bury EUR 3000 million in the TAP with 2000 additional redundancies. The State is once again treating itself better than it does people. So if money is not from the state, if money is from the people and the community, when, Minister, will finally support companies with what they must be supported, which is lowering taxes, those that have been paying for so long to have the society they have today?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u121	Mr President, we have had very little time for the second round, but it is a perfectly liberal choice. [[CH's laughs.]] You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u122	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, these debates that replace the fifteen-year debates also have the advantage of listening to the Liberal Initiative Member to welcome Government initiatives. So it's also an unpublished case. I would just like to mention the following: firstly, these measures, which you say are very complex and difficult to grasp by companies, are well learned by more than 70 000 certified accountants in Portugal, in particular with the Order of Official Accounts Techniques, who are actively participating in both the design and the implementation of these measures. I would also like to tell you that the APOIAR programme, which has been launched with EUR 750 million of funds lost, is probably the largest operation of incentive systems in Portugal which, in months and a half, is already making payments to companies. So, I think, in spite of everything, it has an interest. And, Mr President, frankly, I must tell you that, with regard to this idea of an economy developing by lowering taxes on businesses and that everything else happens by magic, I do not understand how there are still people who believe in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u123	It is the time of the PS Parliamentary Group to ask Mr Minister questions. To that end, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u124	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all understand and understand that the tragedy and extraordinary situation we live should not be hidden or disguised. But I also find it more or less obvious that the systematic, repeated acclaim of drama and tragedy, as the PSD has always done on this matter, is not only a sign of pessimism, it is also, as the people say, of the "old of the Rest." The « old men of the Restello » always have the condemnation of the « bottom-down». It is always the "bottom-down". It is curious that the PSD appeared in this pandemic a few months ago, saying that it would always be available to support the government, to support the national authorities in this difficult fight that we should all be together. But quickly, very quickly, he abandoned this thesis and entered into the thesis he most liked, which is that of the « bottom-down », which is the the thesis of the « old man of the Restello ». We regret that and I am sure that the Portuguese also regret it. But that's not all, Minister. The PSD, in a previous crisis and during almost all previous legislation, has been in a kind of « ai, ai, ai, that these gentlemen are spending a lot ; ai, ai, ai, that is spending a lot ». In fact, this thesis extended until the beginning of the discussion of the Budget, when the current president of the PSD said: « This is to give everything to everyone». It's the same thesis! And supposedly a Devil would come and, supposedly, all this would be a catastrophe. That was the PSD thesis. However, it is curious that we have never heard of the idea, that we had previously presided over, that we had spent a lot, that the deficit was going to be a drama and that the debt was going to be a drama. And this is because things are obviously well managed and today, when you look at the public accounts — and it is worth talking about — we find that the Portuguese deficit, compared to the European deficit, is below. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] After this pandemic, you're down, Mrs. Member! The honourable Member should know, I should read the numbers — it is below! Until I can tell you that the Portuguese deficit is 9, 2 % of GDP, the European Union deficit has an average of 11, 4 % of GDP; the Portuguese debt rose by 6 percentage points, the European Union debt rose by about 8 or 9 percentage points. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] And this is, therefore, the work this government has done to combat the crisis with rigour, as it should be. But this rigour is not just a propagation, it is not just because we want it, it is because it has consequences, for example, in the financing of the economy, which allows Portugal to earn millions and millions of euros, and, therefore, also, to have room for manoeuvre to combat this crisis as well, in the face of the financial difficulties that the country has. Therefore, it is worth saying that in this debate there are two things that need to be answered and I will try to do so. The first is whether or not there was a response to the crisis and how it happened. I do not have time to explain the significant set of measures that the Government has been making over the past few months, but it is enough to say that it was EUR 22 billion in support, it was EUR 2, 5 million in support of Portuguese, 160 000 companies that have been supported, it was EUR 2000 million in payments already made and EUR 2, EUR 7 billion in total lost. This is factual, this is neither fictional nor proclamational. But I have heard a lot here about projections of international entities and it is also worth focusing on this. It is worth mentioning in some way also to answer how these measures have contributed to the state of the country, whether from a macro point of view or from a micro point of view, that is, from the point of view of the country in general, or from the companies. And the Minister has already answered: the Portuguese economy has grown more than the European average, in spite of everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u125	It's fake! Oh, my God! It's fake! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u126	And unemployment is below the European average, despite everything, or in line with the European average. And this is a fact, it's not worth hiding.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u127	No, no! That's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u128	But more important than that are companies, Minister. It's worth talking about companies and we need to talk about companies. INE (National Institute of Statistics) publishes a COVID synthesis systematically, talks about facts and I will remember some. Expective of companies in the face of changing jobs: 85 % of companies plan to maintain jobs — 'Alas, alas, alas, I do not see how the government's measures did not support this thesis! Do not keep on seeking. ” Company subsistence time in a scenario of worsening containment measures: 84 % does not plan to close and this demonstrates the quality of the measures. Finally, in conclusion, the importance of the extension of measures in the face of the worsening pandemic is that 30 % of companies do not intend to resort to measures, even if the pandemic increases. This does not mean a terrible crisis sign in all companies in the country, as I think it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u129	It's okay! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u130	54 % of companies intend to study the suspension of payments of tax and taxpayer obligations, i.e., they prefer the restriction of measures to be the suspension of payments, and 51 % prefer the layoff. So, Minister, I would like to ask you a question: how did the State fail in this context? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u131	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u132	Mr President, Mr. Carlos Pereira, let's see: the state is all of us, it's public services, it's tens of thousands of employees who respond to the country's needs at all times. I think the Portuguese state, frankly, did not fail. During this pandemic, it has shown a capacity for response, adaptation, flexibility, which, as a citizen, makes me particularly satisfied. I would also like to say that, from the point of view of economic policy, we are trying to make a difficult balance, but that, despite everything, it is possible. And that balance is as follows: in terms of economic response to the crisis, we must let the budget deficit grow. In the face of the crisis, revenue has to be reduced, taxes are lower and expenditure increases. And we wanted expenditure to increase decisively in health, even structurally, and we wanted social expenditure to increase, too, in the face of the critical situation in which we live. We also said from the outset that the budgetary effort would not exhaust the economic response to the crisis and that what distinguishes this crisis from the previous crises is that the answer is not given solely by the national budgets, but by European resources, which we have at our disposal. We have at our disposal the resources that come from PT 2020 which we have not yet used and which we have now been able to reprogram under the window that the European Union has left us, and we also have new resources from the Next Generation EU plan and the next multiannual financial framework of the European Union, which was still unblocked in the European Council yesterday. This significant package enables us to give a social, health and economic response to the crisis that will manage to contain the growth of unemployment and the growth of the closure of enterprises and will also enable us to ensure that our budgetary trajectory and the trajectory of our public debt are not out of control. This is an effort, it is the equation that we are trying to keep balanced on all fronts. It cannot simply be said that everything is given to everyone, that it was the initial criticism that the PSD leader made to the state budget bill, although he then wanted to give some more things and said that there was still a need to give others to other entities. So this balance is difficult, but it is possible and it is the balance that the government will continue to maintain. I would also like to leave a note that has to do with the following: he mentioned that in the survey that INE is systematically doing to companies, it is said that 84 % of companies do not intend to close in the next few days. I would like to remind you that every year in Portugal, between 10 % and 15 % of companies close doors, so if, this year, 84 % of companies say that they do not intend to close this is exactly what has happened in a normal year in which there is no crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u133	I call on the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u134	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the country, Europe and the world continue to experience one of the greatest crises that there is memory. It is a devastating health crisis that continues to cause disease and death. The health crisis inevitably brings a great social crisis and a great economic crisis and neither the country nor the world nor Europe were prepared for this new reality. The Government of Portugal, with courage and determination, has faced difficulties with concrete and objective measures that meet the needs of citizens and the needs of businesses. Yesterday, following measures already implemented earlier, the Minister announced a new set of very important and very relevant measures for the country. I therefore greet the Government and especially the Minister. It is EUR 7, EUR 2 billion to be implemented in the first half of 2021 and — it is very important — of these EUR 7, EUR 2 billion, EUR 1, EUR 4 billion will be allocated to the lost economy. Repeat : 1, 4 billion euros are injected into the lost economy, without any reimbursement. Five are the areas of intervention: support for employment; extension of the APOIAR programme; support for the payment of income; taxation; and financing. In support of employment, I would like to point out that, by the end of the semester, payment of workers' wages will be extended up to 100 %, up to the minimum of three minimum wages, without any further efforts being made for companies to extend this measure to the management partners. In the APOIAR programme, I would like to highlight the allocation of deep-lost subsidies to companies at a value of 20 % of the turnover breakdown recorded in the first 9 months of 2020 compared to the same period. In support of the payment of income, I highlight the fund allocation of support for the payment of non-residential income up to the limit of 50 % of the value of income. In taxation, I stress the monthly and quarterly VAT deferral, and companies can pay in three or six benefits, without any interest. The executions of the Tax Authority and social security during the first quarter are still suspended. A treasury fund for micro and small enterprises amounting to EUR 750 million, aged five years and a period of 18 months, should be financed. On the other hand, companies in the tourism sector will have access to credit lines for export activities of more than EUR 1000 million, which means strengthening EUR 300 million in relation to what was previously planned—and, I would say, Mr Minister, still well, because tourism is indeed very important for Portugal. I conclude by saying that it is indeed urgent that these support should reach companies quickly, so I ask you if you are in a position to state that during the first half of 2021 these funds will even be injected into the economy and reach even the companies that need them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u135	In reply, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u136	Mr President, Mr Coimbra, first of all only one correction: of the measures we were able to announce yesterday and which he welcomed as the initiative of the Government, there is at least one that he mentioned, which is not on the initiative of the Government ; this is the treasury fund for micro and small enterprises which is contained in the State Budget Act and which has been inserted on a proposal by the Greens Ecological Party. I would also like to say that these support we are launching are extremely demanding from the point of view of its implementation and were very demanding from the point of view of its design and the mobilization of the resources that we have available. Note: After the 750 million euros in total lost, which we mobilised in the APOIAR programme, we strengthened the income programme in 300 million euros, strengthened the APOIAR programme in more than 150 million euros, to have greater coverage and finally mobilised 210 million euros in order to be able to convert part of the credit line that we are granting to exporting companies and event companies. It was difficult in conception, but it is especially very difficult in execution, but I want to say that I am confident that we will be able to execute and start launching these supports at the beginning of next year, and I say so with confidence based on the work done in the last few weeks. When it was said a short time ago that the State failed or that the State failed, it meant that in recent weeks I have been able to witness closely the commitment, dedication, the missed sleep hours of officials and leaders in the Agency for Development and Cohesion, in the IAPMEI (Agence for Competitiveness and Innovation) in the COMPETE, in tourism in Portugal and in social security that have mobilized to manage this program in a record time. As I have already said, this APOIR Programme is the largest operation ever done in incentive systems in Portugal and it was designed and started to execute and started payments in six weeks. This is absolutely remarkable. So I have to pay tribute here to the employees of all these services and say that it is the work they have done that gives me confidence that we will be able to implement these new measures in the time we propose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the second round of questions, I would like to say that at 11 a.m. and 45 minutes you have opened the register of presences and, at the moment, we already have voting quorum. In the meantime, I ask Vice-President José Manuel Pureza to replace me and to whom I thank. [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. You have the floor to begin the second round of questions, Mr Hugo Costa, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u139	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, at the beginning of this second round, intends to underline the measures adopted yesterday by the Government and also the set of measures which have been taken during this period. First of all, I would like to stress that, for example, the PSD said at the beginning of this debate that, at first, the response to the crisis was good. I also stress that the PSD and IL stressed in this debate the quality of the measures announced yesterday by the Government. The pandemic has posed new and important challenges. Health and economics are certainly not incompatible, but require clear and concrete answers and Portugal has had to know answers, like all the countries of the world. I would like to point out that, for example, in the State budget we approved the treasury fund of EUR 750 million for small and medium-sized enterprises and that other mechanisms were approved yesterday, and we are talking, by the end of the first half, about EUR 29 billion of which EUR 4, EUR 2 billion has been lost — it is important to put these data here. But I use this intervention to talk about non-inhabitation. Renting is certainly one of the biggest difficulties of companies, trade companies, services, restaurants, hotels are among the ones most affected. Therefore, on these lease measures, particularly in support of up to 50 % of the value of revenue for turnovers of 40 %, I ask the Minister whether the EUR 300 million placed on this measure is a significant value or not. Of course, there are other measures that are being considered — and I am not going to anticipate from now on the next week's debate on the other lease measures, including the extension of existing rules until July, but I would like to ask you what the needs of companies are. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u140	To answer that, Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transition has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u141	Mr President, Mr Hugo Costa, thank you very much for your questions. As you know, companies have fixed costs, essentially wage costs, and then, in the other fixed costs line, are the income they pay for their facilities. So it is with the fixed costs that we essentially have to worry about, because if the company has less activity has less turnover, then it has less variable costs, but fixed costs are always there and, therefore, now we seek to support this large item of fixed costs that are commercial income. The honourable Member has already mentioned, and I have already been able to refer to the programme which we have launched, basically lost, for the payment of income to companies that have a breakdown of turnover and I would now like to mention other measures that we propose. First, we propose legislation to the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the extension of the suspension of certain effects of lease contracts. As you know, the landlords at the moment cannot denounce the contracts or invoke their expiry, provided that the tenants continue to pay the rent and continue to occupy the lease, and we intend to extend the effect of these measures until 30 June 2021. We are also concerned to ensure that, for activities which have been closed by legislative determination since March of this year, it is possible to extend the suspension of the obligation to pay income, which is currently in force, until these restrictions cease. We would like to propose that the Legislative Assembly should extend the duration of these contracts for the period in which they were closed and that their expiry should not occur at least six months after the reopening authorisation. We also propose that, for these activities, the obligation to pay income only begins to occur from June 2022. Finally, we have decided to support tenants to pay the rents they are suspended and to ensure that the landlords, who may be most affected by these measures, can also have public support in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u142	Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u143	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic crisis has come unannounced, but it has already determined a huge social and economic crisis unprecedented and the need to adjust to a new standard in several perspectives. However, since the first hour, the Executive has been supporting families and businesses with layoffs, now 100 %, with VAT exemptions, with substantial support, with the different moratoriums, and has presented, in the context of what has been used to us, a prudent but progress budget, so that it will be a reality in 2021. However, at the same time, he worked to have a European budget in the European Union — and that is why I also congratulate him! — and also to have a European instrument that allowed us to have more than EUR 13 billion at our disposal to support the Portuguese economy. The right, when in power, the least difficulty cuts everything out, increases taxes and denies social support. Now, in the opposition, it simply propagates, irresponsiblely, everything for everyone and spreads the sustainability of public accounts. We cannot speculate that in the third quarter of 2020 we had a similar decrease in GDP of 5, 7 % after a contraction of 16, 4 % in the previous quarter. An evolution that had to do with the behaviour of domestic demand, which had a significantly less negative contribution than in the previous quarter. These results were not only the subject of government contributions, but they were the subject of contributions from all Portuguese and Portuguese who worked on this economic recovery, but all the instruments placed at their disposal had a very significant role. Now, with the new pandemic indicators, the perspective and expectations of citizens and businesses have changed and again interrupted this recovery profile. I would therefore like to congratulate the Government on its continuing ability to adjust. In view of these new indicators and this breakdown of recovery profile after the previous six months, after at least April, I would like to congratulate the Government, the Minister and the Council of Ministers yesterday, on having launched another package of measures aimed at strengthening these support and consolidating the network that the State should provide to those most in need of support at such a delicate time as this one. So, Minister, I would like to ask you if this is the package that will once again allow companies to respond... [[One more time?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u144	Yeah, one more time. I wonder whether this package will provide the support it needs to resume GDP growth, as we had in the previous quarter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u145	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u146	Mr President, Mrs Jamila Madeira, thank you very much for your congratulations. I do not have much to say, besides thanking you, but on whether these will be the appropriate measures to ensure the recovery, I say it differently: the resumption will come when the search is reestablished. What explained the very significant growth of the Portuguese economy in the third quarter of this year was not government measures. What explained this significant growth was the normalization of the health situation and the opening up of external markets. Do not forget that it was not only domestic consumption that contributed to the growth of the economy, it was the extraordinary performance of goods exports, which last October were practically at the level of October 2019. Therefore, with the normalization of the health situation, the economic recovery will be decisive. What are the government's measures on? In preserving the productive capacity of companies and employment, so that, when this demand is returned, companies can simply start to produce again. Therefore, in a context where demand is not here, at the level that was desirable, there must be a supplement to allow for fixed costs and — even if it is not to keep the doors open, because we know that there are closed hotel units, to hibernate — to maintain the potential for response, so that, when the search resumes, it emerges. This is how these measures were designed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u147	The next question will be put by Mr Ricardo Leon. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u148	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the PS Parliamentary Group is fully aware of the importance of local trade in our economy, in particular its dynamizing importance in our streets, in our parish and in our councils. They are mostly micro and small businesses, many of them made up of whole families that depend on this small business. This specific sector of micro and small businesses has, in our economy, a very important role and was what this pandemic crisis felt the most for various reasons. Many of them had to close, many others had to reinvent themselves and, in the vast majority, had severe revenue breaks. Therefore, sensitive to this issue, the Government has implemented a set of measures to give and find answers, particularly to these micro and small businesses, with income support, as has already been mentioned, or in the allocation of liquidity to these micro and small enterprises, and, above all, in the maintenance of jobs, which will be so important when this expected economic recovery we all need. However, one of the complaints that micro and small businesses have made is related to some bureaucracy in the completion and delivery of these same applications. So I asked the following: where can there be a greater simplification of this process and what role has already been discussed in the Order of the Certified Accountants in this simplification of applications, particularly for these small and medium-sized enterprises? A positive record on the issue of those who were outside, those who had no organized accounting. I leave a word of appreciation, but I ask: in what manner is it to be made and what is the scope of it? For the PS and for the government, I am sure that, as in other matters, here too, no one can stay behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u149	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, retail trade, in addition to its economic function, has a function of dynamizing urban life and social life and is indispensable to the existence of cities. We do not think of urban life without the existence of retail trade, of trade with door to street. That is why we are well aware of the impact this situation has on retail trade and wholesale non-food trade. In food trade, people have continued to consume food, even more than they consume, so the small food trade has been working quite well and has even gained a new breath. However, the non-food flap is in a terrible situation. We talk a lot about restoration, but if we talk, for example, about ready-to-dress, we have invoice breaks of more than 50 %. In footwear retail trade, shoes are having average turnover breaks of more than 60 %, because people stay at home, soon do not spend soles and do not need to buy shoes. The situation is indeed very dramatic and therefore, too, these measures are particularly designed in relation to non-food trade. I would also like to say that we recognize some difficulties in small and micro-enterprises accessing some of these support, but I think that is not so much a matter of bureaucracy. The APOIAR programme, which we have launched, is particularly simplified and only a certificate of accounting form and declaration must be submitted with respect to the bankruptcy and the value of the support claimed. It is validated by AT and immediately the acceptance term is sent and payment is made by transfer to the bank account submitted. What they mentioned to us was different things. For example, entrepreneurs on an individual basis without organised accounting, on the basis of existing rules in the European funds, had no access to this programme. We have had important work not only to allow them access, but also to increase the programme's allocation so that we can reach these entrepreneurs. We also had some reference to the issue of companies with debts to the Tax Authority and social security. We would now like to create a mechanism for approving an application, but instead of making the payment immediately, we are waiting for the situation to be regularised, in particular through accession to a performance plan. Therefore, we have been sensitive to these issues and I believe that, probably within the framework of State support, this APOIAR Programme is the most unburocratized that exists and has been very designed with certified accountants. Simplified entrepreneurs do not work with certified accountants and this will be a difficulty, but we have had a very significant rate of candidatures and accessions for other companies, which makes us very comfortable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u151	To ask questions, still by the Socialist Party, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u152	Mr President, Minister, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents itself humbly in this debate, just as the Government presents itself with the humility of those who have to resolve. A humility that often does not appear on the part of those who are deprived of the need to respond to a global pandemic, which affects everyone. in this sense, it is important to highlight the words of the Liberal Initiative, which says that we treat the State better than people, forgetting that it is the State that cares for people and forgetting, in fact, to whom the Liberal Initiative, whose doctrine of attack on the State is permanent, resorts at a time of global difficulty—appears to the State! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] This is what the Socialist Party has done: defending a strong state. Nevertheless, Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your position being more honest than the one on the other right, who thinks like you, but does not have the courage to take it. Mr Minister, I would like to leave you a question that has to do with the expansion of the APOIAR programme. In the short time available, I would like to stress the EUR 22 billion invested since March in support of our economy, 2790 million of which have been lost. However, there is a big difference between announcing and executing, and today we know that of the 35 800 applications for the APOIAR programme, within only one month, we already have EUR 163 million approved and, underlining, 57 million paid to 10,416 companies. That's what I wanted to highlight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u153	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u154	I should like to conclude by asking Mr President the following question to the Minister: this enlargement of the APOIAR is also the recognition of a well-designed, effective and further programme. I am grateful that the Minister could clarify some of the flexibilitys and how they resulted from the dialogue with the different sectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u155	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could simply reply 'yes' and 'yes', but I will give a little more justification for my answer. Yes, there is a reflection on the programme, which has been welcomed from the outset, because it is innovative and because it is particularly simplified in access and payment. And we have been very sensitive to discussions with the various sectors about the possibility of enlargement. It should be noted that enlargement is not just a matter of will, it is a matter of being able to mobilize sufficient resources. I remember being here in debates where Mr Bruno Dias said: « The ADAPTAR programme was very good, but it was EUR 50 million. That opened and closed quickly, because it was like giving a bottle of water in the desert, which quickly faded away. Do not keep on seeking. ” We therefore want to have an allocation compatible with the number of potentially eligible companies to be supported and the support amounts we have set. That is why it is not just a matter of will, it really requires a lot of work and a lot of attention. We also wanted the answer to be made on the basis of the observations made by the various sectors. over months, literally since the beginning of this pandemic, we had hundreds of meetings with associations representative of the various economic sectors, which brought us their concerns, their suggestions of measures, their observations to the measures we would adapt. We don't have to do that, but we need to be constantly open and, from then on, we can make some important adjustments. I have already talked about opening up to individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting, access to medium-sized enterprises, but also about the very particular situation of activities that have been closed since March, such as night fun activities, which, of course, deserve significantly increased support because they simply cannot have any other activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u157	We now turn to the questions of Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u158	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, as usual, Mr. Carlos Pereira very much likes to distort the expressions, words and actions of the Social Democratic Party, but, let us be clear, it is nine months ago that the first state of emergency was approved in this House. And there is a fact that should deserve the Socialist Party's concern : we remain in a state of emergency only and only because the PSD, in the name of the national interest, was with you. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u159	That principle, which you have invoked here in a wrong way, is therefore still present. But being on the side of the government in matters of national interest does not mean that one cannot and should not point the finger to in wrongs and things that are being done wrong! [[PSD applause.]] That's what we did! In the rents, we denounced several times that the model did not serve everyone. Nine months later, the amendment that we have been defending here for months was finally tabled. Moreover, in the case of the members of the Socialist Party and the Government, for months they would refuse and deny, saying that it could not be, that they did not want, finally, after much discussion, it was possible to change. The same has happened with regard to micro-enterprises with simplified accounting and arrangements, which, until at least yesterday by the announcements, have been excluded from all support. After yesterday's announcements, these companies may have access to support. The same has happened with regard to bureaucracy and speed of proceedings. That's what we did here and good! Nine months later, with regard to many of these matters, the government unearthed the head of the sand and realized that it had to take those steps forward, and still well! Mr Minister, we already realize today that OECD is an eccentric thing that makes eccentric predictions. in this eccentricity, I ask you: is it or is it not true, as the OECD says, that the Portuguese economy was one of the ones that got the most caught up in this period? That's what the OECD says! Is it or is it not true that, in view of this scenario, it is plausible for the Portuguese economy to be, as the eccentric OECD says, of the most difficult and slowly will recover? I don't know what eccentricity is in this matter, Minister. These are facts! I don't see great eccentricities here! Is it true or not, as the same institution says, that looking at what was public investment in 2020, at what was budgeted and executed, only Cyprus is worse than we are? Is it not true that, on the basis of the State budgets that have been approved, we continue with Cyprus with the lowest public investment planned for 2021? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u160	They're facts! With regard to public investment, I am not surprised at anything because in 2016 your government has reached the minimum standards of the last 60 years. This government is an enemy of public investment. He talks a lot about him, but he doesn't realize it, he doesn't execute it. And now there is no excuse for changes in Community frameworks under Table 2020. There's nothing of it anymore. Why? Because we are reaching the end of the execution and we need to run 1, 2 billion euros! Mr Minister, the State budget has increased the cost of context of a very important sector, which is the textile sector. You have changed rates and taxes in cogenerations, creating an increase in context costs that have made it difficult for companies to compete. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u161	You have forgotten culture and cultural agents, as well as a sector worth 2 % of GDP, which is sport. You think it is normal for young people to go by bus and be in schools together, and well, but after school they cannot practice sports, breaking this value chain which is very important for our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u162	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u163	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, first of all, entrepreneurs on an individual basis without organised accounting are intended for important support which is created. I will no longer speak of the microcredit line which Portugal's tourism manages, which is a credit line of EUR 100 million, with 20 % convertible, which is completely lost, to which tens of thousands of businesses and entrepreneurs, on their own behalf with simplified accounting, have already acceded. I would also like to remind you that individual entrepreneurs without organised accounting also benefit from layoffs and other employment support without any kind of restrictions. Therefore, it is not accurate that they have lost access to the support already launched. Secondly, not speaking now of the OECD projections, I would like to remind you that there is already reasonable confidence in the impact of this crisis on the product of the euro area countries and the European Union in general, that Portugal is among the most affected but not the most affected. France will fall more, Italy will fall more, Spain will fall more, Belgium will probably fall almost as much as Portugal. We are clearly on the average of the breakdown. What the OECD foresees in its 2021 projection is indeed very low growth in the Portuguese economy, except for error 1, 9 % or something like that. But it says that this happens because Portugal is supposedly an excessively dependent country of tourism and that tourism will not return, when it itself assumes that these projections do not contemplate the effect of vaccination. I am not an economist, so I do not have to make strict projections, which has an advantage: I am not mistaken. But with regard to these projections, there is one thing that I can say: firstly, all other international institutions expect growth in Portugal of 4 %, 5 % or 7 %. This is the logic with which Portugal's growth potential is facing next year; secondly, the OECD does not include the effect of the vaccine. I recall once again that the British Minister of Health says that the British will have the summer they were always used to: the summer they are used to is passed on in Portugal. What I mean is that I even have a personal conviction that, when we normalize the health situation, we are going to watch worldwide as we return to a set of activities that, at the moment, have a purely suppressed search. Now, people don't travel, because they can't, because they don't leave them. People don't party, because they can't, because they don't. And when they don't go to parties, they don't buy clothes to go to parties. And if they don't go for a walk, they don't buy shoes to go for a walk. People don't go to restaurants, because restaurants can't work in terms normally defined. Therefore, the normalization of the health situation will have a very large impact on the economy, because all this repressed demand, suddenly, can be re-satisfied. With regard to these projections, that's what I meant. Finally, there is an issue that is one of the great liabilities that the world will inherit from this crisis. These are precisely the restrictions on sports activities and, in particular, on sports activities of the younger. I am not just talking about the circumstances of the training classes being unable to participate in competitions and thus degrade the quality of high-performance sport in the future. I'm not talking about it. I'm talking about sports habits and physical activity that either acquire in the first childhood, and don't get lost in adolescence, or never recover again. And this liability, which will be paid in terms of quality of life, in terms of health indices and in terms of life expectancy, must be paid very quickly in the future. As a member of the Government, although I have no responsibilities in this area, I can tell you that I believe that the Government must have a great incentive programme to recover this liability, in the training classes, in the elders, so that the level of physical activity that a mature society, made up of demanding citizens, can be recovered as quickly as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u164	You have the floor for a question, Mr. Paulo Moniz, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u165	Mr President, Minister, I bring you the important theme of 5G, not only for Portugal and Europe, but because it is also one of the advantages of economic recovery that we all want on the digital axis, in line with European and national priorities. This is a process which, in Portugal, stopped in March, for reasons of the pandemic, but which was, however, resumed. We are currently approving the candidatures of the possible candidates for auction and the truth is that this is the most contentious, most controversial process in the history of telecommunications in Portugal. Mr Minister, we have a regulatory entity in comparison with the operators, we have operators in dispute with each other. And we have the unique circumstance of probably not meeting the deadlines for Portugal to have 5G in the first quarter of 2021 and therefore not have the capacity to develop economic activity around the 5G ecosystem, to do research and take a modern step like the rest of Europe. Mr Minister, we have heard the PS say that it does not intervene because it was a private activity, regulated by the regulator; we have heard the Minister say, in his last presence in the Committee on Economics, that he was concerned about the course of the process; we have seen the Minister of Infrastructure, in the midst of this dispute, make a courtesy visit to one of the players, one of the operators, and make a 5G call. Mr Minister, this position zighuzag by the Government does not help in any way the continuation of 5G terms in Portugal. Mr Minister, what we want, remembering the drawn band of good memory, is to answer a question: where for the government in this process? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u166	When no one understands, the country and the Portuguese have to look at the government. The question I ask you is, where is you for this process? What is your speech? And what assurances do we have that at the beginning of 2021, we're going to have 5G and we're not going to be in a delay like we are so far? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u167	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u168	Mr President, Mr Paulo Moniz, as Minister of Digital Transition, what I do is to understand the country's needs in the various areas of human resources qualification and the infrastructure of telecommunications networks. The European Union's Digital Economy and Society Index has shown that Portugal still has a high quality and emphasis on telecommunications infrastructures, but has been losing its focus and relative positioning on the growth of other countries. We have two major needs for telecommunications infrastructure: we have to ensure the completion of territorial coverage in 4G — this serves, in general, citizens, businesses — and we have to ensure adequate coverage of our cities, our business areas, our large infrastructures with a 5G network that can enable the Internet to operate things and allow a 4.0 industry to really work. Therefore, the Government is very concerned about how the launching processes encourage investment both in the completion of the territorial coverage and in the implementation of this large investment on 5G networks. The whole investment is very high and therefore the Government has adopted a resolution by the Council of Ministers recommending a strategy for the installation of 5G in which there could be adequate incentives for both investment in the conclusion of the territorial coverage in 4G, or in the conclusion of 5G. As you know, legislation in Portugal determines that those who conduct and take the fundamental choices in this area are not the Government, it is an independent administrative authority. The Government has adopted a strategy, by means of a resolution of the Council of Ministers, which has not been covered by the auction regulation. So at this moment, as I have already said, I am concerned about the situation in question. This is an area that is absolutely fundamental to our country and therefore it is not positive that such a fundamental auction is surrounded by so much controversy. I therefore believe that the honourable Member is right about this. As you also know, the government has no competence to intervene in this matter. This is a question of Portuguese legislation, which, in this matter, can be changed, and this is the legislative body par excellence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u169	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor for a new question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u170	Mr President, Minister, the confident and promising speech he brought us this morning is not entirely right with the reality of numbers. Let's see some. In 2020, for the third consecutive year, we went down the ranking of digital competitiveness and for the second consecutive year we went down the world ranking of development, attraction and retention of talent. We are the Country of Websummit, but in 2020 we are with a brutal fall in technology funding when all the records in this area are fought in Europe. We fell five places at the World Bank's last ranking of ease in doing business. We have come back to the anti-corruption recommendations of the Council of Europe, as referred to in the latest report by GRECO ( Group of States Against Corruption ). When we grow up, we grow less than the 15 cohesion countries, that is, those who have per capita incomes below the European average and to which we can compare. We are indisputably more indebted. The debt accumulated by families, companies and state reached a new record in September according to the Banco de Portugal, EUR 738 billion. We are poorer, in comparative terms. Last year GDP per capita in purchasing power parities in Portugal fell again compared with the Member States of the European Union. We were even overcome by Lithuania and Estonia. We continue with public services at least, but with the tax burden at most. According to the National Institute of Statistics, the tax burden in Portugal remained at historical peaks in 2019 : 34, 8 % of GDP. We are the country which charges companies more than 4300 fees. We are the fourth worst OECD country in terms of fiscal competitiveness. We have the lowest public investment rate in OECD. We are the European country where wages have fallen the most and we are among the countries with the greatest economic destruction due to the pandemic. Despite all this, Mr Minister, we are the country where the measures to respond to the pandemic were the lowest percentage of GDP in the euro area. Therefore, Minister, please explain to the Portuguese how, after so many pages of austerity, so many wonders proclaimed, so many and so many acclaimed announcements, Portugal remains on the wrong side of the world's statistics and rankings. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u171	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u172	Mr President, honourable Member, I don't know where I'm going to start. The description of this apocalypse, of that country that is crushed, of that country that does not exist is absolutely extraordinary! Despite everything, I would like to recall that the country has been increasing its exports for six years; it has been remediating its external deficit consecutively and reducing its indebtedness to the outside; it has managed to ensure export growth and market share gain abroad; it has managed to ensure a growth in the ranking of the most innovative countries in the European Union, and today the only highly innovative country in all South and East Europe, a country that forms more people, who are able to attract foreign investment and has also been thereby reducing its indebtedness. The honourable Member is right: this year, debt has increased. It's like this all over the Western world. Cumulative public debt from all over the Western world is at levels only seen in World War II. Why? Because all States are having to launch measures to support the economy. A significant part of these measures, as you know, is to guarantee loans granted to businesses and families. That is the right answer to a crisis. What we have also said is that at the moment we must focus on responding to the crisis — which is necessarily going to increase indebtedness — temporary and non-structural so that, once the economic recovery is ensured, we can resume a path of fiscal consolidation and reduction of public debt and also private debt. The burden of debt causes economic activity, family income, corporate income, state income to be sent not to invest and to other reproductive activities, but to pay interest. That's what's undesirable. Therefore, what we have done, following a five-year course now interrupted, has been aimed at continuing this growth path, increasing the value of our exports by increasing the competitiveness of our goods and services and, at the same time, ensuring that we maintain this trajectory of public debt, now interrupted in the context of the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u173	We have moved on to the questions of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To put the first set of questions, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u174	Mr President, Minister, it is true that debt is a burden for families and for trade, but it has been with the increase in debt that this government has been responding to needs, for example in the matter of non-residential rent. In order to make a difference, or slightly different, we had to arrive at December 10 to have a proposal, not yet known — we know only the general features — on how to support trade with regard to incomes, an issue which has been raised and which is not only now, Minister. Well, we could have had other answers. Moreover, in July we discussed proposals from the Left Block which dealt with issues such as, for example, the increase in the deadlines for payment of debts, which the Minister proposed to the Assembly of the Republic. We have also put forward a proposal which is being raised again and which has to do with the reduction in incomes, Mr Minister. In fact, the only amendment that guaranteed reduction of income was approved here in the Assembly of the Republic. As I understood what I said, we now share in this proposal the effort between the renters, who pay the rents, and the government, who also pay part of the rents. The question I am asking is where the gentlemen are. Where are the real estate funds, the gold visas, the great owners? Where does your solidarity with our country enter? Where do you come in? Oh, my God! At the moment, only the government and tenants have an obligation to pay the rent. I wonder if the government has forgotten the real estate speculation it has promoted over the last few years, if it has looked at the value of income, which remains at this time, even with the country standing still. The economy is stopped, many of the businesses are closed, but real estate speculation remains. Since it has expanded the possibility of a reduction in income, which I understand will be voluntary on the part of the landlords, I wonder if there is any concrete value in the bill to reduce income so that the effort is, in fact, solidarity among all people in our country, mainly ensuring a rapid recovery of the economy, rather than maintaining a profitable and speculative economy. In addition, I would like to ask another question that has already been addressed this morning: the extension of lease contracts in the event of closure of activity. The doubt with which I am left is whether these activities are not all, or much of them, to be strongly penalized by the lack of trade. Like I said, people, if they don't get out of the house, they don't buy shoes. However, these entities and these companies also need to see their protracted contracts in order to be able to resume later because, if they have contracts closed immediately after the end of the mitigation period, they will not be able to resume this. What I ask you, Minister, is whether or not we are all on the same boat and by when we will have an effective fight against real estate speculation and support to those who work in our country, who do not have, at this time—and no longer have before— money to respond to speculative incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u175	You have the floor to answer this first set of questions, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u176	Mr President, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, my first note is to tell you that the incomes are falling, the real estate prices are falling, and they are falling as quickly and as quickly as less interference in this market, which is very particular. I would like to point out something that we have already done and which is assumed, which is the circumstance of having laid down, in the proposal for a law that we have presented to Parliament, that the effects of the lease contracts whose deadline has ceased, for example, in June this year continue, and there can be no denunciation or invocation of expiry, and that is to say June 2021, which means that the tenant may be there another year to pay the same income. This is something that is taken up, it is a proposal which the Government has made to Parliament and which is positive, because we have to give answers to many cases of tenants who are in a difficult situation, but who also have a negative aspect, which is to maintain the value of income. If the contract ended, in a context where there was less demand, the next incomes should be lower. What I mean is that we must always have the notion that the decisions we make, sometimes to respond to urgent needs, may have an adverse impact that we have not calculated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u177	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u178	For example, the Assembly of the Republic, when it approved the non-recovery of the fixed component of the occupations of commercial centres, was doing so following a concern with shopkeepers who could have a difficult situation in the face of the search breakdown, but, in fact, what it did, above all, was benefiting large companies, who occupy spaces in many shopping centers, who have the biggest shops and who often pay little variable income or even pay no variable component at all. Therefore, this decision, which was, I imagine, motivated by an important social and economic concern, had this negative, very negative impact, because it was not benefiting who was most in need. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Therefore, in my view, the State must interfere as little as possible with contracts concluded between private agents and which regulate the consequences of certain situations. That's my perspective. I always believe that, in a crisis, the state has the ability to absorb the negative impact of the crisis: it can stop charging taxes, make increased spending, respond to social problems, support companies. All this is necessary and desirable. When the state begins to say that the impact of the crisis is not suffered by this person, but by that other person, it is creating an effect whose impact cannot be fully controlled. That is why I am very comfortable with the decision we have taken, because it responds to the problem of commercial incomes in a balanced way and that goes against the concern of tenants, which is, above all, to have the ability to, in a context of reducing their revenue, meet the most significant fixed cost they have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u179	The next set of questions from the Left Block Parliamentary Group will be put by Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u180	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I shall begin by referring to a story that is quite elucidative of the situation that cultural agents are living. Victor, a musician and programmer, lost all the work he had scheduled for this year in just three days. He competed for several support, but didn't receive any. He realized that he was in limbo: his situation did not fit the support available. Without a solution on the horizon, he once again lived in the home of his parents. This is an example of a life canceled by the pandemic. Like Vítor's, many lives of cultural workers are canceled. Many are reaching the bottom of the well and many are already there. According to data revealed by APEFE (Association of Show Promoters, Festivals and Events ), between mid-March and late April, around 27 000 shows were cancelled, suspended or postponed. A survey conducted by CENA-STE (Syndicato de Trabajos de Spectacles, Audiovisual and Music Workers' Union) shows that only 12 % of those who responded have unlimited contracts and 70 % have a second activity. The return to activity involved the reduction of lotions, activation of contingency plans, acquisition of protection and disinfection material, change of working methods, change of presentation times and development of campaigns to promote and disseminate the culture sector to ensure security and motivate participation. Despite all efforts, the resumption of this sector is a fiction, a fantasy that the government is feeding on to avoid the application of measures that, in fact, guarantee the survival of structures and workers. The culture sector, with its already existing structural vulnerabilities, is being devastated by a storm. If the government's inaction persists, the destruction of the cultural fabric will be irreparable. The achievement of measures to compensate for the impact of the restrictions imposed by the state of emergency on pandemic control is essential. over the months, we have been witnessing the announcement of measures. However, the announcements are not the same: mere and inconsequential announcements. The measures announced, so necessary to overcome this economic and social crisis, have failed, because they have not reached the people who need them so much. The Minister has again announced in this debate a package of economic support measures. I ask you, Minister, whether this is what the measures announced by the Government will be translated into concrete measures to protect cultural activities, structures and their thousands of workers, because we do not identify them in the proposal. Is the Government available to implement fully-fledged emergency measures for this sector? Is this the fact that the government is going to disenchant the lives of the workers of culture? Or again will the workers be lost between the announcements and the implementation of the measures? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u181	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u182	Mr President, Mrs Beatriz Gomes, thank you very much for your questions. by the way, I am a minister of everything, because I even ask myself about culture, but this is too serious a subject to deserve no answer. It is too serious, because the sector of culture, especially that of performing arts, is a sector that lives from events, on occasion, with a production structure that obviously depends on the existence of the public and the possibility of carrying out these events. Therefore, of course, it is being particularly affected by the model of operation that existed in our country. The performing arts sector is quite different from many other sectors of culture. The performance workers have quite different characteristics. Most of them, as you know, work for the market and the other part work for events promoted by public entities. We are aware that there is, firstly, a serious social problem. Artists who lost their activity had no framework in social security responses. That is why an extraordinary social benefit has been created which is also addressed especially to workers in this sector. On the other hand, I wanted to say something important to you: when we launched the APOIAR Programme — these EUR 750 million, now reinforced to EUR 900 million in depth — we included precisely the companies in the cultural sector. currently, there are already applications approved in the amount of EUR 15 million for companies in these sectors. I would also like to say that, even now, when we reformed the regime of support for progressive recovery, we have paid particular attention to companies in the sector of culture with employees in charge. Why? Because, as you know, the progressive recovery support scheme is applicable due to invoice breaks in the previous month, compared to last year's counterpart period, and these activities, because they are seasonal, are mainly carried out at a given time of the year and not necessarily in a specific month. Therefore, we also had particular attention to the question of these seasonal activities in industry, culture and events. I give, for example, pyrotechnics, which is also a seasonal activity and which needed this adaptation so that workers in this sector, those who have employment contracts, could continue to benefit from support for progressive recovery, with wages, as you know, now paid 100 % on the initiative of the CFP. Finally, I wanted to say that another very important thing is production support itself. More important than social support, more than these support for the maintenance of employment, where it exists formalized, it is even possible to restore cultural activity. in this sense, I would like to recall that, at the initiative of the CFP, in the vote of the State budget, a programme of support for cultural production, with an allocation of EUR 83 million, which aims precisely to allow productions of shows and other cultural events to be made which, at the moment, cannot have the same ability to generate revenue. Therefore, from this concrete response that the CFP suggested, it will be possible to have production support next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u183	We have moved on to the questions raised by the CFP Parliamentary Group, the first to be put by Mrs Diana Ferreira. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u184	Mr President, Minister of State, Economic Affairs and Digital Transition, I would like to ask you a very specific question, considering until yesterday's Council of Ministers came out in relation to Efacec (Efacec Power Solutions), whose workers, in fact, I take advantage of to greet, considering the fight they will have today, in defence of their jobs and the nationalization of this company. Efacec is indeed a reference company not only for the North region, where it is located, but for the whole country, with a clearly strategic industrial intervention area, which even assumes in practice an intervention to replace imports by national production. The work carried out by Efacec is of great importance, even considering the interconnection that this company has with a set of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises working with it, particularly in the northern part of the country. It adds means of production, technology, technical skills for the development of integrated solutions in the fields of energy, engineering, transport, environment, automation and also electrical mobility. This alone demonstrates the strategic importance of this company, but it also demonstrates the importance of this company being in the hands of the State. The option to deliver Efacec, one of the most important companies in the domestic processing industry, to an economic group or to international companies, is a film that we have seen too many times, Mr Minister. It is a film that we have seen in the past, with risks even decharacterization or even destruction of the company, as happened with other companies in our country, being one of the most flagrant examples that happened with SOREFAME (Societes Reunions of Metal Manufactures). Indeed, measures are needed to ensure the continuity of the company's activity, to ensure all jobs and workers' rights and to place Efacec's production at the service of the country's needs and development, naturally passing the solution for the definitive nationalization of Efacec, integrating it into the business sector of the State, into a national development project. We would like to know what role the Government really wants to play in this area. Do you really want to defend national production and ensure the definitive nationalization of Efacec, serving the interests of the country with this decision, or do you want to defend, yes, the economic interests and the accumulation of profits of economic groups and foreign companies? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u185	You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u186	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, thank you very much for your questions. I absolutely agree with you when you identify Efacec's strategic nature for the country. I absolutely agree. I would like to recall the following: Efacec, with this name, was created in 1948, for more than 70 years, but in fact it happens to companies which, since 1905, had an important industrial intervention, especially in engineering. throughout these more than 100 years of history, Efacec was especially highlighted by the ability to be a large engineering company. Like the honourable Member, I greet the workers of Efacec. The wealth and value of Efacec for the country have to do with its workers, its industrial capacity and its unique engineering capacity. I would also like to remind the honourable Member that this strategic character, this accumulated competence, this capacity for collaboration with the national scientific and technological system, this ability to collaborate with the value chain, with many micro and small companies, happened over 100 years of history, when Efacec was a private company. What the government did was as follows: recognizing that this private company, which has always stood out without need of public intervention, was on a path that would lead almost inevitably to its insolvency and destruction of jobs and of the technical capacity and accumulated engineering that it retains, the Government intervened. I would like to say, of course, that this situation had to be resolved and that this intervention would be merely temporary, because the engineering capacity, industrial capacity and the capacity that Efacec has to intervene in the market should be able to continue as always, throughout these more than 100 years of history. What the Government decided yesterday, that is to say, to initiate the process of reprivatization, was exactly what, at the time of nationalisation, it announced that it would do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u187	You have the floor also on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u188	Mr President, Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, said recently that, with the normalization of the health situation, the economic recovery will be decisive. The question we are asking is that life, economics, culture, among others, cannot be suspended until then. The recent example of the PCP proposal that has been approved, of support for production in the field of culture, is, of course, an example of what, at the level of economic activities, should be done as a sign of confidence and support for activity, with the care and security mechanisms that must be provided to people. The Minister did well to remind us of our criticism of the ADAPTAR programme for the lack of funds and for the impossibility of access by companies in simplified arrangements, for example. The question is now about speedy execution. at this time, the situation is different, because the measures now in force are more comprehensive and more companies are now included to receive answers to their problems. The question is now about the rapid and effective implementation on the ground, so that these new measures and support actually reach micro and small enterprises. In the first round, we have put this question on the various concrete measures we have adopted, which now need to be brought to the ground. There is another debate, specific and very important, on the concrete issue of income and rent, which we will have in this House from today to one week. We will go through the matter at that time. However, there are a number of other specific issues that need to be clarified, namely whether the Development Bank is the entity responsible for the operationalization of these measures, in which aspects, within which time limits and with what implications for the rapid and immediate implementation, taking into account the situation in the Development Bank process. One of my comrades said the other day that if everything gets tied up, «the donkey dies and whoever touches it». So it's important to be quick. The treasury fund, already mentioned here, is based on what instruments? That's another question. As regards the support to MPME members, does the Government believe that the support that began to be provided, with effect at the time of the first state of emergency, cannot go beyond six months? Are people left without support for these last months of the year, or can a response be given, if necessary by decree-law, in the coming days? It is that the question of the six months of validity, so let us say, from the first support, is now being placed at the level of the services, with the small entrepreneurs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u189	You have the floor to answer, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u190	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, thank you very much for your questions. I'm sorry about this interview. It was to understand your last question. The Banco de Fomento will intervene in the launch of the credit lines, which we also announced: the credit line for the exporting companies, which, as you know, is sized on the basis of €4000 credit per job, €800 converted into deep lost if jobs, at the end of 2021, remain; the credit line for the event companies — those that work in this sector and are currently very poor — that allows 20 % credit converted into lost funds by the maintenance of employment; the credit line for the large companies that are in the particularly affected sectors, which must be supported by appropriate measures to their size and which it is important to preserve. A subject we are still studying has to do with the issue of the treasury fund for micro and small businesses. We pretend it's done. It is an initiative of the Greens Ecological Party and what we have combined is that it will not be launched through the banking system. So we're looking at who's going to distribute and secure access. We already have a successful experience, which is credit to microenterprises now extended to small companies in Portugal, and we will work around it. Yesterday, we decided that we would immediately start launching the work, to see if at the beginning of 2021 there would be the possibility of this being distributed. We don't want to have the donkey tied, because we really want him to start walking and, if possible, not trouting it, but galloping it. Finally, on the issue of partners, what we have now decided has nothing to do with the extent that Parliament has approved, it has to do with the fact that companies that are in support of progressive recovery can also include their respective managers who make discounts in the company. I think this is a question that everyone realizes makes sense and that it is different from the issue of partners-managers who have no employees in charge, or who are behind, being another type of social support which, I think, will become included in the new extraordinary support planned for 2021. So I already realized that the honourable Member is dimensioning the support that may already be ending and not reaching 2021. I have no answer, Mr, but let's think about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u191	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the CDS has never said, nor will it say, in these debates, that in economic matters, the Government had done nothing in relation to support for companies. We can understand that the support has not been sufficient, that the timetable has not been adequate. If there is any point that we insist, and we insist, that the government should have made it available to companies sooner, it is precisely the lost fund. And here comes the Minister — I have heard him in his first reply — speaking in a race, saying that in a long run we have to measure the effort. This we realized, but there was a problem in this race, which was left too long for companies and entrepreneurs to run « bread and water ». That was the problem! As far as the bottom line is concerned, many companies and many jobs would have been saved if the government had, much earlier, as the CDS had warned, put in the bottom line support for the companies. Mr Minister, I would like to say that when we talk about support, we talk about the European bazouca. We have recent news that are positive for the country. Poland and Hungary have already reached agreement and, finally, the whole of Europe will be able to benefit from the country support funds under the COVID-19. in this regard, we have a PRR ( Recovery and Resilience Plan ) on which Mr. Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza, said here, within the budgetary framework, that the first tranche to come to Portugal will be EUR 900 million. Looking at our neighbouring Spain, the Spanish Government has already announced precisely the timetable of what will be the availability and the times when they will receive such support. I ask you when, in Portugal, we will be aware of this timetable so that in some way we can measure what will be available. I attended the Minister's press conference yesterday, which made new announcements to the economy. It is important that for these money coming from Europe and which should be used to help boost our economy, there is a framework of total transparency. We have said and repeated that, in relation to the money for the economy and our businesses — the EUR 6 billion that Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. António Costa, announced — it is important that this information is available so that the micro, small, medium-sized and large-sized enterprises can access them, have knowledge of the projects, know where they can apply and what they will be able to benefit from within that framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u193	You have the floor to reply, Mr Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u194	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, would like to recall the following: the first measure that the Government adopted in economic matters, at the beginning of the pandemic, and probably the most important one to contain the growth of unemployment and keep companies alive was a completely lost measure, that is, the simplified layoff. This was a deeply lost measure that allowed companies to pay wages when they had no activity or had very limited activity, no longer paying TSU. These measures have been carried out by many others who have lost funds to maintain employment. The companies were able to receive two minimum wages for each worker in layoff and almost all companies made use of this mechanism. Therefore, there have been deep support lost, from the very first moment. The second note has to do with the question that you asked about when the funds from the Next Generation EU programme will be available. As you know, it is expected that 10 % of each country's national envelope will be brought forward in the first phase. Portugal has already immediately confirmed EUR 9 billion in its programme — it is the value of 10 %, as you know — and the remainder will be dependent on GDP by 2021. This will be the lower the GDP in 2021, the higher the volume to be received. Therefore, the whole envelope is not yet closed. We wanted to be the first country to present our plan to the European Commission. We are currently discussing with the European Commission the outline of the plan so that we can also present the final plan as soon as possible. As you know, the final plan will then have to be approved by the European Council. I must tell you that, in fact, the conviction and information we have is that we are ahead of Spain — as you have mentioned — in the discussion of our national plan. I would also like to say that precisely because we have the notion that it is important to start developing initiatives in this area as quickly as possible, the State budget for this year provides that the Government can anticipate, on account of these funds, EUR 1400 million, and, as it has already perceived, we can use funds to support companies in the reprogramming of the PT2020. These measures we tabled yesterday have essentially to do with that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u195	You have the word now...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u196	Mr President, I am sorry, but with your tolerance and with the time left, I would ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u197	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u198	These programmes are as transparent as possible. I believe that no one is calling into question that all eligible companies are being treated strictly identically.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u199	And I didn't question it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u200	In fact, it couldn't be otherwise. All the support we provide to companies is not only controlled by the national authorities — by the General Inspection of Finance and by the Court of Auditors — but also by the audit of the European Court of Auditors itself and by the audits that the European Commission can determine. I therefore believe that we are quite calm about transparency in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u201	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u202	Mr. Minister, thank you very much for the answers you gave. I would like to say, on a telegraph basis, that time is no longer much, that when I speak in transparency, I do so in order to provide information. It was in this sense that I spoke, particularly in the information for microenterprises, which are those who normally have more difficulty in accessing information and dealing with the enormous bureaucracy we have in this country or who sometimes do not have the means to deal with it. When I talk about transparency, there are no other issues than these. Mr Minister, I will also tell you this: you will recognise that the CDS has always praised the process of layoff, moratoriums, indeed, like the policies of different European countries in this area. You will also recognize that the CDS, very early on, said that, in addition to layoffs and moratoriums — which are positive, Minister — are also important the support that has been lost. If such support had existed earlier, surely, as is evident, the situation could be different. I'll ask you a telegraphic question, even within the time you left the first round, and that has to do with the TSU. In the State budget, I asked the Minister if the Government was available to bring down the TSU precisely and thereby relieve the treasury of companies, the operational costs. Now, the government — perhaps well — is coming up with a mechanism for compensating companies in relation to TSU. I heard that yesterday and I would like you to be able to detail this information a little further.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u203	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u204	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, contributions to social security are absolutely crucial to ensuring the sustainability of our social security system. Workers, at each time, even those covered by employment support measures, continue to count their working time for the training of their pensions and continue to have access to other benefits paid by social security, e.g. in the case of sickness or unemployment. Therefore, it is necessary to preserve the value of contributions to the TSU. Therefore, from the outset, in these employment support measures, such as the simplified layoff, in which the Government determined the exemption of TSU to companies, it was established that the additional effort of social security, due to the lack of contributions, had to be offset by the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u205	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u206	In other words, even though companies are not paying the TSU, the State budget is making these contributions to social security in order to ensure the sustainability of our contribution system. With regard to the increase in the minimum wage, what we have said is that for this reason there should be no exemption from the TSU. at the same time that we recognize the increase of the minimum wage as an imperative of labour dignity and an important economic stimulus, at this moment of crisis, we also recognize that, when we are having so much support for companies, this was an additional cost that many companies would have, particularly in some sectors more exposed to the minimum wage. So what we have decided was that we have another support, plus one subsidy, which is paid to companies that have the minimum wage, exceptionally and exclusively this year—it has not happened in the past and should not happen in the future—in relation to the higher charges with TSU resulting from this increase in the minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u207	The next series of questions lies with the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, tomorrow the Paris Agreement completes five years — five years in which the concentration of greenhouse gases increased from 402 to 415 parts per million. Scientists are told that, starting with 430 parts per million, the planet enters a new climate system, with the rise of the global average temperature of the atmosphere above 1, 5 °C, which means the occurrence of increasingly extreme and unpredictable weather phenomena. Therefore, time is scarce and only with assertive and courageous actions can change the current context. Therefore, Minister, knowing that economic recovery is a fundamental factor in ensuring this paradigm change, I ask you how you will act to ensure that this economic recovery is based on a sustainable model of growth. Do you think it is possible to comply with the Paris Agreement and reduce emissions, when the government does not include environmental balances in the restructuring of TAP, does it not eliminate tax bills and perverse subsidies to electro-productors and livestock companies, or does it resist the creation of a fund for household energy efficiency investments?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u209	Mr. Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u210	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Paris Agreement is important to make a reference to the international community regarding the greatest challenge of our time, that is, the sustainability of this planet that we share with so many other species. Thus, the statement of President-elect Joseph Biden, in order to re-ensure the United States' accession to the Paris Agreement, is a very important step. Portugal is very comfortable with the objectives of the Paris Agreement, is ahead of many countries in achieving these targets and, in this sense, is perfectly comfortable with the objective of reducing gas emissions in 2030 for the 55 % target which the European Commission now intends to establish. We have a great deal of concern to ensure the achievement of these goals, which must be done in a sustained and credible way. In addition, Portugal has made great progress, since it was one of the countries where there was a higher reduction in greenhouse gases compared to 2005 and, in the Climate Change Performance Index, it has risen eight places, which has to do with the policies we have implemented. I would like to say, above all, that we must ensure that the achievement of these goals is compatible with the economic development objectives available to us. In fact, as you know, in our National Energy and Climate 2030 and our Roadmap for Carbonic Neutrality 2050, Portugal assumes that the most ambitious objective, in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, is the one that leverages economic growth in our country. That is what we have to do, that is to ensure that in Europe, Portugal, industrial activity is maintained and therefore we also have to ensure that our industrial activity is able to adapt to new changes. For this, a substantial part of our national recovery plan is to allow our industry to adapt to these goals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u211	Mr André Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u212	Mr President, Minister, you've been talking for 2 minutes and 15 seconds but you haven't answered any of my questions. So, by default, I would like to ask again: does the plan for the economic recovery of TAP to be delivered in Brussels not include any environmental counterpart? Another question I would like to ask you is about the climate change and the adaptations that we have to make as a country, in particular with regard to the rise of the average seawater level, the fires — with all the devastation and loss of lives that we have unfortunately already known — to pandemics, to the scarcity of water and to the desertification of the territory. We know that below the Tagus, the risk of desertification has ceased to be a risk, is absolute evidence. In the face of all these evidences and predictions of science, what precautions and strategies has the government developed for each sector of economic activity in regions that will be most affected by climate change? Apparently nothing, because the economic activities that are being developed, particularly the south of the Tagus, continue to be done in the same way, i.e., as they always have. Therefore, the NAP has long advocated a strong investment in adaptation to climate change to minimize these impacts and protect populations, which must begin with the development of a risk atlas of the territory which is the lighthouse and the dynamo of the investment in the context of climate crisis recovery. What does the Minister think about this proposal for a risk atlas?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u213	Mr. Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u214	Mr President, Mr André Silva, in fact these debates are curious because there are questions... I mean I am not responsible for the restructuring plan of the TAP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u215	Isn't tourism economic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u216	... nor for the adaptation of agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u217	Agriculture isn't economy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u218	As a member of the government, I would like to say to you that the government is committed to the objectives of climate change, is committed to the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, is committed to the efficiency of the use of water resources. There are plans, in all sectors, to achieve these goals. We have proposed funds in the national recovery plan to allow our producers, industry and others to adapt precisely to this path, which the country has all to go through. What I can talk about directly has to do with the achievement of these goals in the industry sector. I have been talking to the industrial sectors precisely to see what their plans are to achieve these goals and how the resources we have at our disposal, coming from the European Union, can finance this transition effort. I know this and I can talk about it, but — and I apologize to you, honourable Member — about the TAP, the only thing that... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] ... I can say that Mr. Minister of Infrastructure must be presenting the restructuring plan and surely knows it much better. I would like to remind you that this Parliament has adopted a rate on carbon emissions in aviation — Portugal is one of the few countries that have already launched this rate — which means that, from the point of view of the country's competitiveness, we are creating more costs for 'the destination Portugal' than other countries. It is something taken up by Parliament, it is something taken up by the country and, therefore, I would say that we already have a significant effort on the initiative of the NAP. I apologize for not being able to answer you in any other way than this, but at least I wanted to remind you of the existence of this rate, which obviously has an impact that does not have in other countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u219	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, as we all recognize, micro and small businesses have an absolutely central role in our economy. And if these companies, even before the health crisis, were in a very delicate situation, not only because of the excessive levels of indebtedness they were in, but also because they were very dependent on banking credit, especially in the short term, were in a completely suffocating situation. The figures show that thousands of companies have suspended their activity in recent months, or because the containment and confinement measures have thus required, or because they have experienced a very sharp breakdown in respect of their usual orders, and have also ended up closing. Therefore, the pandemic has aggravated the problems of micro and small businesses, which have had a great deal of difficulty in maintaining their activity, because they have seen a drastic reduction — or even a total increase — in their turnover since March of this year. I recall that the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has been alerting that there are about 1 million and 100,000 small entrepreneurs who are experiencing many difficulties in paying expenses, such as wages, income, water, energy, tax charges, among others. With these data present, the Greens presented a proposal for the creation of a treasury fund for micro and small enterprises in the discussion of this State budget for 2021. What was intended with this proposal, which was already discussed in this debate and also worked with the Government, was to give an agile, effective and without excessive bureaucracy to the treasury problems of this decisive segment of the national economy. As you know, until you have mentioned it here today, this proposal has been welcomed by this House, so it has been adopted. With an appropriation of EUR 750 million, this proposal, which is now a measure, provides for a maximum period of reimbursement of funding up to 10 years, with 18 months of capital shortage. However, the proposal still provided an interest rate of 0 %, which has not been approved. However, yesterday the Government will have developed this important measure of support for micro and small enterprises — if so, I would like to congratulate the Government and the Minister on this fact — but I think it would be important for the Minister to tell us a little more about it, in particular what the interest rate will be applying to this treasury fund and whether the Government is working to ensure that this line of support can even be achieved through simple and bureaucratic requirements, as is foreseen in the proposal which has been adopted, as I said recently, during the votes of the State budget for 2021. Now, Minister, I would ask you to tell us when this fund would be available, that is, when small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can use this important treasury fund. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u221	You have the floor to answer, Minister Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u222	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, micro-enterprises, in fact, deserve particular attention. That is why, moreover, in employment support schemes we have decided to extend the measure of the two minimum wages for each job for the next half of the year — it is important because microenterprises have difficulty in regulating the duration of work for the few workers they have — which gives them great flexibility and is a great injection of treasury. We also have this income support, which is accessible to microenterprises, whether they have or do not have organized accounting. So this is a very important support. In the context of the State budget, the Greens Ecological Party proposed that a fund be set up which would allow the financing of micro and small enterprises that did not need banking intermediation. In the interaction we had, I recalled that the government had launched a EUR 1000 million line for micro and small businesses and the Greens Ecological Party reminded that microenterprises in particular have difficulty accessing banking intermediation, and therefore we decided to follow this proposal. We are working on the design of this fund and what we want is to have it functional within the time frame that the State Budget recommends, which is until the end of February, except error, although I hope it will be sooner. at this moment, I want to understand that we will be able to have an interest rate — I cannot say that it is 0 % — that it must be very low, taking advantage of the interest of the Republic. I am not saying that the support line has no charge, but I am quite convinced that it will have a perfectly bearable price. What we want to ensure — and that is what we are still realizing — is the best way to make a very flexible and simple operating structure. I have already mentioned here the example of the line of credit for Portuguese tourism microenterprises, which is quite simple and has had a lot of welcome, so I hope that we can have the same kind of flexibility in an answer that is so important in the coming days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u223	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u224	Mr President, Minister, he has been asked several times about a matter, but, as he has not yet answered, I will ask him again. Do you know how many catering companies haven't paid the rent in the last three months? 65%! Not 1 %, not 2 % or 10 %, is 65 %! So I ask for the last time: is the government or is it not available to exempt these companies by July of next year from the TSU? As you have left, two days ago, the door open for support, which is the subsidy, without counterpart, on commercial income, and today you have not answered us frankly on issues related to this, I ask you: will the government give a substantial support for commercial income? That's what we want to understand. More: when, how and how will you make the return of the TSU you promised? Finally, Mr Minister, I ask you the following : do you know how many environmental charges exist in Portugal? There's 600! There are 600 fees! [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u225	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u226	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Minister said, two days ago, that his big challenge was to unbureautize Portugal. I ask you: how can we unbureaucratize Portugal with 600 environmental rates? Oh, my God! Explain to me, Minister! How do we tell companies that they have to pay 600 environmental charges? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u227	You have the floor to answer, Minister Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u228	Mr President, Mr Andre Ventura, I saw that this 65 % statistic resulted from an investigation made by a particular association whose representativeness I do not know, as I do not know which sample is and how it works. Nor do I know whether companies that have not paid income are companies that have stopped paying and have failed to comply or are benefiting from the moratorium that has been established by Parliament. Therefore, I do not know exactly how many companies have ceased to comply with the obligation to pay income, and in many cases it was suspended. I imagine you don't know either. The second thing that I wanted to explain to you, because I know this and the honourable Member, by the way, does not know, is how the support for the long-lost commercial income that the Government approved yesterday works. It works in the following terms, and I will repeat what I have already said: companies that have a turnover breakdown of more than 25 % over 2019 are entitled to a loss of substantive support corresponding to 30 % of the income value - show the income receipt and say that they have had a certain turnover breakdown, so 30 % is paid in full and with the limit of 1200 € — per month times six months; companies that have a turnover breakdown of more than 40 % are entitled to a loss of substantive support of 50 % of the income value times six months. It's simple and easy to understand. I hope you understand now. Mr President, I would like to remind you that it is EUR 300 million that are available for this programme. We think it's enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u229	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u230	As I said, the average commercial income in our country is 1200 € per month.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u231	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u232	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you two questions that are necessarily quick. First question: given the crucial importance of the perception of health safety in Portugal for our tourism, in high season—which is approaching— what was the role of the Ministry of Economics and the Secretary of State of Tourism in the design of the vaccination plan? Second question: given that your Ministry has signed a memorandum of understanding with Microsoft for digital transformation, what are the counterparties planned by the State in this memorandum? Are you going to sign this type of agreement with other companies or does Microsoft have any privileges? In conclusion, Mr President, I wanted to say the following: in the first round, the Minister — and the PS bench — subalterned the criticisms I made here. It is a form of choice and selectivity about the vision that has of reality and this is behind some deresponsibility, to which we attend every day, on the side of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u233	You have the floor to answer Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u234	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the vaccination plan was already missing! [[PS and ENP rice.]] by the way, the Minister of Economy has to talk about TAP, agriculture, culture and now also about the vaccination plan—that was all that was missing! Look, Mr. Deputies, in fact, I did not intervene. And still, I have a lot to deal with. But I have confidence in who prepared it. And you know why? Because they met specialists who know the national vaccination plan. Portugal has a great advantage over many other countries, because it has an extremely effective National Vaccination Programme with a well-developed network in the territory, which has been able to administer vaccines for many decades, and also because it has been involved in this logistics and emergency military planning specialists. So I have full confidence in the vaccination plan that was made and in the methodology that was used to define it. I don't have to take part in it. With regard to its second question, the Ministry of Economy has indeed made a protocol with Microsoft in the field of digital transition, according to which Microsoft commits itself to certain objectives that we set out in our Action Plan for Digital Transition, particularly in the area of people's training, human resources qualification and also in the part of support for companies in their digital adaptation. We have also made protocols of the same nature, possibly with different scopes, with Google and with a number of other companies that want to participate, in order to align their plans and initiatives with those that are the objectives outlined in the Digital Transition Action Plan, because there are no counterparts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u235	With this reply from the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, this debate with the Government on sectoral policy ends. Before we move on to the vote, the Bureau says goodbye to the government, to whom it is fulfilling and voting in good health. While the Government is leaving its seat, I ask Mr.Secretario Diogo León to do the favor of forwarding an important announcement to the Plenary. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u236	Mr. President and Mr. Members, this is a pre-voting announcement, i.e. the entry of a draft resolution, which, although already included in the vote script, should be announced on an administrative basis. This is the Resolution Project No. 795 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to the State's performance in the award of support in the 2017 sequence of fires in the Pinhal Interior area for the period of 90 days. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u237	We shall then proceed to the vote, to which there is a quorum. Mrs. Members, we begin with the Vote Project No 413 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by PSD ) — regretting the death of Valéry Giscard d’ Estaing. I would like to ask Secretary Diogo Leon to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u238	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « On December 2, Valéry Giscard d’Estaing died at the age of 94. Concerned and interventionary citizen, political man, defender of freedom and democracy, since the times of resistance to Nazi occupation, minister and President of the French Republic, friend of Portugal and Portuguese communities, convinced Europeanist and Euro MP. Intense was your activity. Wise reformer, has left considerable marks in the European area. He promoted the European Monetary System, the embryo of the current economic and monetary union and the euro. The former French President wrote in particular a Constitution for Europe which would later form the Treaty of Lisbon. It was one of the founders of the European Council and the G5 economic summits, which later became the G7. The creation of the European Council was probably its greatest success. With the death of Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, Europe loses a great statesman, loses a great European defender of its common values, including fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law, values that constitute the cornerstone of our societies and of our common identity. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing recognizing its invaluable contribution to Europe of values, solidarity and tolerance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We moved on to the Vote Project No. 414 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PSD and signed by a Member of the CDS-PP )................................................................................................................. I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u240	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « Last December 5, he died, at 59 years of age, at Cascais hospital, journalist Pedro Camacho, former director of information of Lusa and current director of the Innovation Directorate and New Projects of the same news agency. Pedro Camacho was born in 1961, within a family that distinguished himself by writing and journalism. The father, Rui Camacho, was the editor of the Portuguese News Agency, which was the origin of the Lusa Agency. The mother, Helena Marques, was assistant director of the newspaper Diário de Noticias. He was a brother of the editor Francisco Camacho, of the Leya Group, of the journalist Paulo Camacho and of the translator Maria João Camacho. Detainer of a long and brilliant career, Pedro Camacho began his journey as a journalist on the Time Week, still incorporating the editorials of the First Page and Week, as well as having put the information of the Paris-Lisboa Radio into operation. He was responsible for the Economics section of the Newspaper and the Public, where he also served as deputy director. In 2001, he entered the Vision as Deputy Director and in August 2005 succeeded Cáceres Monteiro as Director. He left the Vision to lead Lusa, where he was director of information between 2015 and 2018, since then playing the role of Director of Innovation and New Projects. Journalist of great prestige, rigor and ethics, admired and recognized by all who crossed his path, Pedro Camacho undoubtedly marked the panorama of social communication in Portugal. To his family and friends, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] They are found in the family galleries of Pedro Camacho, to whom, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, I present sympathy and, on behalf of all of us, a word of comfort. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just voted on, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We proceed with the vote on the draft vote No 415 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport ) — Greetings to Elvira Lucky for the award of Horizon Impact Award 2020. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 416 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport and signed by a Member of the PS ) — Congratulations on the sporting results of cyclists João Pedro Almeida and Ruben Almeida Guerreiro. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 795 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to the operation of the State in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area for the period of 90 days. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 579 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Change Article 36. the -A of the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, in order to extend the period of admission of new entities to the Scheme of the International Trade Centre for Madeira or free zone of Madeira until 31 December 2023, in accordance with Commission Regulation ( EU ) 2020 / 972 of 2 July 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We moved on to the Resolution Project No. 648 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to combat tax havens and carry out a cost-benefit assessment of the overall economic, social and fiscal impact of the Madeira Free Zone, whose vote by points was requested by the NAP on request and in due course. Let us then begin by voting on point 1. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, BE and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and BE abstentions.]] We are now voting together on two applications, one by BE and the other by the PCP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a vote for 90 days of the Drafts of Law No 165 / XIV / 1 respectively. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of reform of persons with disabilities and 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 523 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the time limit for the holding of safe houses by firearms holders(1). the amendment to Law No 50 / 2019 of 24 July ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 554 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will vote for the Resolution Project No 526 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of lead in munitions of kinetic activity and in firing camps. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 693 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government disclose information on COVID-19 in a school context and develop a screening programme. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We generally vote for Bill No 134 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — For the purpose of banning the manufacture, possession, use and sale of articles which only serve for the capture of wild birds not subject to kinetic exploitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 215 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Removes the rabbit-breeding of species subject to kinegetic exploitation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the ENP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 140 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No. 158 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Bans fox hunting, excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 159 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — It prohibits hunting of raspberries, excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 160 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting at honey, excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We then generally vote for Bill No. 161 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — It prohibits hunting by the black grate, excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 162 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — prohibits hunting, excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202/2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 163 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Bans the hunting of prey and excludes this species from the List of Cinderella Species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 586 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — condition the pursuit of the hunt to non-threatening or near-threatening kinegetic species and to present a known conservation status( 8 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the ENP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No 587 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the production, possession, use and marketing of the means and forms applied exclusively for the capture or slaughter of non-cinegetic specimens of wild birds ( 3 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u243	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u244	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on the diplomas relating to the hunting activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u245	It's registered. Mrs Bebiana Cunha is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u246	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u247	It's registered. There will certainly be very varied explanations of vote with a nomenclature. Mrs. Members, we move on to draft resolution No 429 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on the best practices of the current use of personal protective material, such as masks, visors or gloves, and encouragement to the option by reusable material, which will be voted on at the request of the PSD by points. Let us first vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We are voting together now on points 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 682 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Establishment of a specific support for artisans financed by the reallocation of the funds allocated to the support granted under the programme for the promotion of arts and crafts. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u249	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u250	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u251	For the expansion and training of the public consultation of the strategic plan of the common agricultural policy. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 150 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Recommends that the Government not make any additional contributions to the Resolution Fund. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected, votes against the PAN, CH and IL and abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u252	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u253	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u254	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u255	All right, Mr. Deputies. Be duly registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 313 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government no longer transfer funds to the Resolution Fund for capital injection into the New Bank until the audit to its accounts is completed. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u256	Mr President, I call again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u257	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u258	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u259	Be registered. We shall generally vote for Law No 57 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 958 on a proportionality test to be carried out before approval of new professional regulations. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the special vote on the Bill No 57 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The following is the overall final vote of the Bill No 57 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, it is important to vote, in general, on the Proposal for a Law No 59 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Simplifies the procedures associated with the recognition of professional qualifications by transposing Directive 2005 / 36 / EC. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and the PSD, BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote, in the specialty, on Law No 59 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PAN and IL and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now turn to the overall final vote of the Bill No 59 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PAN and IL and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the Proposal for a Law No 35 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — In defence of the right of hearing of self-government bodies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 40 / 96 of 31 August. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 36 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — Committees of Inquiry of the Legislative Assemblies of the Autonomous Regions — First amendment to Law No 48 / 2014 of 28 July. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary Diogo Leon will make some announcements to the plenary. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 787 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 7. the Commission, 788 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, and 789 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. I am now announcing that you were present at the plenary session, via video-conferencing, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Paulo Pisco, Sofia Araújo and Palmira Maciel, PS, Hugo Martins de Carvalho and Sérgio Marques, PSD, and Telmo Correia, CDS-PP. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-11.u261	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary will meet again next Wednesday at 3 p.m. and there are three points in the agenda. There will be political statements at the first point. The second point will include the assessment of Petition No 82 / XIV / 1. a ( FENFROP ) — The reopening of educational and educational establishments should be preceded by testing together with the Resolution Project No 652 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — To provide free COVID-19 tests to teachers, non-teachers and students. The third point will consist of the discussion of Petition No 619 / XIII / 4. a ( SINDEL - National Industry and Energy Union) — They request the recognition of the profession of workers in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers as of rapid wear, together with Resolution Projects Nos 658 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By regulating the worker's activity in the maintenance and assembly of air carriers with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring the safety and health conditions at work and the adequacy of access to the reform and 718 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — By regulating the worker activity of the maintenance and assembly of air carriers with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring the safety and health conditions at work and the adequacy of access to the reform. I present to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your cooperation in this session and I wish everyone a good weekend, with good health. See you next week. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 6 minutes.]]
