ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Before we get to the first item on the agenda, Secretary Nelson Peralta will be pleased to read a set of initiatives that you will see. Ex.s entered the table. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce the various legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. The following Bills were added to the Bureau: No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Further rules for the appointment of the Governor and other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( Eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ) ; No 366 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the regime of support for the resumption and dynamization of the activities of the vendors in the supply to the populations, in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19 ; No 367 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance applicable to workers on behalf of others, self-employed and informal workers excluded from other support; No 369 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Public control of TAP and SPdH; No 370 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in a pandemic and economic crisis; No 371 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Proposals for measures to extend the freeness of day care and equivalent solutions; No 372 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a scheme for strengthening workers in social equipment and repeals Ordinance No 82 - C / 2020 of 31 March; No 373 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures affecting the Portuguese cultural system in the context of the epidemiological crisis (initial text replaced at the author's request); a ( PCP ) — Immediate support measures for small and medium-sized farms which compensate farmers for the serious damage caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 ; and No 376 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Update of the cooperation commitment with social and solidarity sector entities in a value covering the costs of increasing guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration and other factors such as inflation. The following Parliamentary Opinions were also entered in the Bureau : No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April, which establishes a temporary and exceptional regime of support for humanitarian firearms associations in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic ; 12 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May amending the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 ; and No 13 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, amending the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, as corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May, of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of the following Resolution Projects: No 426 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government concrete measures to eliminate the digital divide in education; No 427 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the scope of the support of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute in the payment of housing income under COVID-19 ; No 428 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extraordinary program for the recovery of waiting lists for consultation, MCDT and surgery; No. 429 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on the best practices of the current use of personal protective material, such as masks, visors or gloves, and encouragement to the option by reusable material; No 430 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends that the Government not rescue large polluting industries in the period of influence of COVID-19 and in the relaunch of the economy; No 431 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the quality of service of landfills in Portugal ; No 432 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the application of the reduced VAT rate to nutrients or nutrients ( vitamins and minerals) that strengthen the human immune system; No 433 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Measures to prevent and eradicate racism; No 434 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Ecological transition: response to the pandemic, social and economic crisis; No 435 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Aid to roaming companies in the field of entertainment; No 436 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government take the defence measures of the river Tejo ; No 437 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government condition that new biomass plants be licensed to comply with strict environmental and sustainability standards; No 438 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For the immediate suspension of payment of IMI to owners with losses exceeding 20 % of income; No 439 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Incentive on active modes of transport during and after the pandemic period for the protection of the environment and public space; No 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Supplement to the 2020 Stability Programme with the presentation of a social emergency programme and diplomatic action for its European financing ; No 441 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of concrete measures enabling responses to all Portuguese affected by the pandemic, No 442 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide of its future: to combat the virus and its use, to ensure the development of the country; No 443 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform programme, include in the recovery plan of the economic, social and health crisis caused by COVID-19 the strategic option by a model of recovery based on investment in combat and adaptation to climate change, non-application of austerity measures and measures to combat installed interests; No 444 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government make a sustainable economic and social transition during the COVID-19 crisis ; No 445 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government define a strategic plan to ensure digital transition in schools; No 446 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government extend the duration of the grant of housing support; No 447 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government not support polluting industries in the context of the COVID-19 crisis ; No 448 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote active means of transport during and after the crisis of COVID-19 ; No 449 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government prioritize investment in the structural and operational needs of the National Health Service and the valorisation of all its professionals; and No 450 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends the use of masks adapted for use by professionals and daycare workers. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Nelson Peralta, for reading so many initiatives. We will enter the first item on the agenda, which is marked by the PSD, BE, and CDS-PP, with a current debate under Article 72 ( 10 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the theme « New Bank — Financial matters ». As you should know, in the political statements there were three interventions on this subject and, as is planned, the parliamentary groups have reached agreement to turn them into a current debate. So Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country lives in a public health situation that was unimaginable six months ago, with strong economic and social consequences: recession to record a record value, unemployment to rise, despairing to enter many Portuguese homes. It was in this context that the Portuguese, and apparently the Prime Minister himself, were surprised by a decision of the Ministry of Finance. of its traditional arrogance, Dr. Mário Centeno decided to transfer EUR 850 million to the Resolution Fund for the New Bank without giving any explanation to the country, in an unacceptable behaviour in democracy. Faced with the severity of his behaviour, Dr. Mário Centeno seeks to find any explanation that would allow him to draw « the water from his hood ». After all, the responsibility for the transfer of 850 million may be — you know! — by Mr Afonso Henriques, who constituted the Portuguese kingdom ; by the Governments and the Members who allowed private financial institutions ; by Dr Ricardo Salgado, by the management of BES ( Banco Espírito Santos ) ; by the Government that proceeded to resolve the bank to safeguard the sustainability of the financial system; by the Assembly of the Republic, which, through a committee of inquiry, analysed the resolution and adopted a report without identifying this problem, with the votes of the PS itself and today by Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. After all, responsibility is for everyone less than one person, less than Dr. Centeno himself. However, it was he who defined the forms of sale of the New Bank to the Lone Star, who agreed the terms of this payment over time and who, after all, apparently to the revelation of the Prime Minister, gave the order to pass this check. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that the conditions, assumptions and circumstances in which these transfers are to be made are defined, but it is also true that, when the values presented reach this amount, the Government should conduct an audit, an analysis or a study instead of paying « cross ». The Prime Minister agrees with this principle and therefore gave this Parliament as a guarantee the ongoing audit, saying that until the results of this audit there would be no strengthening of the State loan to the Resolution Fund for that purpose. Next, the Prime Minister was disallowed by the Minister of Finance and was silent. Ask yourself: How long? The President of the Republic agrees with this principle, because he says that there is an audit that should be completed in May of this year, and for the Portuguese it is not indifferent to fulfilling the commitments with knowledge of what has happened or fulfilled the commitments and only later come to know what has happened. But for Dr. Centeno, none of that makes sense. He thinks differently from the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. And then he decided to hand over EUR 850 million to the New Bank without waiting for the outcome of this audit and, moreover, without even warning the Prime Minister that he would do so, leading the Prime Minister to deceive the Assembly of the Republic, the Portuguese and to make an apology. So this question has to be asked: does the Prime Minister exercise his authority in government in this way? Strange, strange country we live in! Open... Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the Minister of Finance who does not express any contradiction with his decision and who claims that he does not have to apologize to the Prime Minister for being mistaken. And then the Prime Minister listens and shuts up. This strange country we live in! Open... This is the same Minister of Finance who feels no inequity in letting millions of euros of late-debt debts to state-providers, even in a situation of distress to these companies, which delays the return of IRS (tax on income of natural persons) which is due to families, even in a critical social situation, but which subsequently feels no injustice in paying time and time to the New Bank. Unacceptable! It is unacceptable indeed for the Portuguese. It's not unacceptable for Dr. Centeno. The reason why the PSD had to pass in the State budget for this year is a limiting and scrutinying standard for these financial transfers. But from what we have seen, we must go further, we must be more sure, to prevent the arrogance of the Minister of Finance, since the Prime Minister cannot control it. We will therefore present a legislative initiative, defining that new transfers can only take place after the Assembly of the Republic is informed of the terms and reasons for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u5	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. This, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because in the times we already live, and in those we will live, the cohesion of society is an essential value, daughter of trust, that only the truth and seriousness of governance can instil. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country took note of the Prime Minister's commitment to Parliament, and I quote: « Until the results of the audit there will be no strengthening of the State loan to the Resolution Fund ». Today, the Minister of Finance explained that this Prime Minister's commitment was "unthinkable" and "irresponsible". He added, and I quote, that it was intended to dispute « 10 seconds telejournal» and « a slogan of occasion », that « there are those who fear not to learn» and « there was no margin for doubt» that the EUR 850 million had to be paid. There was no room for doubt. The Prime Minister's commitment was public, was explicit and was violated. Therefore, of two, one: or we are watching a live remodeling and the Minister of Finance will leave the Government because he considers his Prime Minister "irresponsible" ; or we have already seen a remodeling and the Minister of Finance has taken over the government. What the government cannot tell us is that it undertakes not to pay without audit and to pay without audit, or that the audit is indispensable but not necessary. Strictness is essential in this regard because Portugal knows well that, whenever the old BES enters through a door, hundreds of millions of euros come out of the window, and with them they also fly the political commitments previously made. In 2015, Maria Luís Albuquerque ensured that the resolution would not bring costs to taxpayers. At the time, Antonio Costa accused her of « deluding taxpayers». Three years later, it was António Costa swearing that the sale of the New Bank would no longer bring charges to the taxpayers. Centeno added at that time that the sale would not include a « state guarantee to support private business ». That is to say, until today no government has had the courage to tell the Portuguese the truth about the New Bank. The whole BES process has already cost taxpayers EUR 6030 million: EUR 3900 million on account of this resolution which would not cost, and more EUR 2130 million, lost on such a sale that would not be charged. And the New Bank will no longer claim the EUR 1 billion remaining from such a public guarantee that it would not exist. At the end of the story, the Lone Star fund will have a bank ready to sell, the companies that buy the toxic credit portfolios will make their profit and the administrators will have their bonuses. And it's all paid with taxpayers' money. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The chronicle of this announced audit is already long. In February 2019 the audit was determined by law. In March, the Ministry of Finance stated that « the expressive value of capital calls in 2018 and 2019 made it essential to conduct an audit for the scrutiny of the process of granting the credits included in the contingent capital mechanism ». At the same time, the Prime Minister defended the audit, while Minister Centeno pointed out that the risks that were on the New Bank balance sheet had to have clear names and responsibilities since 2014. Later, the audit was recommended again by the Assembly of the Republic. All of this preceded the Prime Minister's commitment last April 22 in response to the Left Block, saying « The audit of the New Bank we have determined is under way only in July, and it is essential to make the decisions we have to make under the financing contract ». And we have arrived today, after the Minister of Finance has passed the EUR 850 million check to the New Bank ignoring the Prime Minister's commitment. Mrs. Members, this is not a'miscommunication failure', it is a political problem of enormous seriousness. It is that we fail to know whether what is worth the Prime Minister's word or whether his promises can then be broken by one of his ministers. The value of capital calls, if it was already significant at the time when the Minister of Finance determined the audit, increased by 50 %, only on this injection, to EUR 3000 million. In the meantime, the bank, which has continued to present losses over the course of this period, decided to allocate a €2 million bonus to the same administrators who have endeavoured to quickly exhaust the public guarantee. In other words, the State shareholder has 10 % of the capital, paid the loss account, has nothing to say about the allocation of millionaire premiums, has not assumed responsibility for the claims and has not verified the management of the assets and the toxic credit portfolio that is under the guarantee. The only rush of the state seems to be to put into Lone Star's hands another check of hundreds of millions of euros. The Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not tolerate this political game. A commitment is a commitment and a euro of taxpayers' money is a euro of taxpayers' money. The commitment of the Left Block is that, in addition to banning the allocation of bonuses — past, present or future — while the New Bank is being saved with public money — any new injection of public capital is subject to the decision of the Assembly of the Republic. This, so that we will not be again dependent on fragile commitments and lose themselves on the way. This proposal, which curiously the PSD has now presented as the solution to the problems —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u9	Isn't it the same? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u10	... it was said here by Mr Duarte Pacheco that they would want to subject new injections to the election of the Assembly of the Republic —, it was exactly the proposal presented by the Block of Left, in January, during the discussion of the State budget, and it was exactly the proposal that the PSD led, in January, when it voted the Budget of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u11	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u12	If the Left Block proposal had been approved in January, the Assembly of the Republic would have discussed the injection of money into the New Bank and would have been able to wait for the audit, so that this process would be clear, transparent and would have the rigour that the Republic demands and deserves. What we can expect is that this time, when we present this project, the indignation of the PSD contributes to the adoption of these measures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u13	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that if any extraterrestrial came to Parliament today and attended the discussions we have, I would be convinced that Portugal was the only country in the world that had not been affected by the pandemic. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Portugal was, yes, affected by the pandemic. And at a time like this, you need to know how to choose priorities. And the priorities here must be the people, the economy, the workers and the companies who have been forced to stop because of the pandemic. And it does not stop being extraordinary that we are discussing at a time when, for the government, it seems to be much more important to make transfers to the New Bank than to make transfers to these people, to the economy and to businesses. I'll explain. We have heard the Minister of Finance say here that for the New Bank it was necessary to fulfil the contracts, that the principle is that contracts are to be fulfilled. Now, I can only regret that for companies, workers and people, who hope and hope that the government will fulfill the promise, it is no longer a priority for the government to hire what it has promised. And it is good to remember here that these companies and these workers need support not because they have managed badly, not because they have worked badly, not because there has been some fraud, but because the economy has stopped and the authorities have decided that for public health reasons it was necessary to stop the economy. That is why it is necessary for the State to intervene. in this respect, I would like to go a little to the detail, because some questions remained unanswered. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard Mr. Minister of Finance say that the contracts had to be fulfilled. So I have to ask whether the Prime Minister of Portugal does not know what he has hired on behalf of the State and how he has been able to make a compromise in Parliament that violates what he himself has decided to hire. And since we have discussed the past and the outline of the resolution, it is also worth talking about alternatives. And then I ask whether the alternative we are discussing today would have left the Banco Espírito Santo with the management there and with the state giving public guarantees rather than making a resolution, because it seems that this is what some PS gentlemen now prefer, as they have preferred in the past. Finally, I would like to say the following: in politics, there are priorities. We have spent the last few days discussing transfers to the New Bank because for this government the priority was to make this transfer. For the New Bank it was necessary to enter into contracts; for Portuguese companies, who are waiting and desperate for the credit lines that the government has already announced there more than a month ago, it is no longer necessary to comply with what has been promised. We heard yesterday, through the mutual guarantee societies that the CDS called Parliament, almost at the same time that the Prime Minister announced credit lines that have already reached the limit of EUR 5000 million, we knew yesterday, soon afterward, in the committee, that only 8, 7% of that amount was effectively contracted. That is, the overwhelming majority of companies had not received even a penny. Moreover, we also knew that until 16th April 17th, the overwhelming majority of the applications had not even entered. And only when there was a reformulation of the lines is that the overwhelming majority of companies could apply. And so far, it is expected that the government will explain why for these entrepreneurs there was simply no contract to comply with, contrary to what happened with the New Bank. Secondly, I would also like to remind the exporting companies that hope and despair for a credit insurance to be able to export to the European Union, which is where we have our main customers. These insurances are stopped from the beginning of the pandemic. Also for these entrepreneurs and for the workers of these companies, who are both praised in the speeches, there are no contracts that apply to them as to the New Bank, they have to wait and they do not know when they will have credit insurance. For workers in Layoff, too, we know that the government had committed itself and hired the companies that would pay them until April 28th. Well, unlike the New Bank, with these companies it was possible not to meet the deadline and so far we do not know exactly how much has been paid nor how many workers are covered. Finally, and since we speak in time, I would like to remind the Portuguese taxpayers, those who have received or those who are still waiting to receive reimbursement from IRS, those who have advanced more money to the state than it would be due to taxes. They also did not use the deadlines because, inexplicably, in this pandemic period, many workers saw their income reduced and many people were either unemployed or receiving a reduced salary, even to them, the State took more time, more than a week, to process reimbursements than it had taken last year. With these, there were no contracts the State had to fulfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u15	It is the turn of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, and Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The transfer of EUR 850 million to the New Bank, via Resolution Fund, is an operation in which the Government and the Minister of Finance have shown irresponsible and immoral conduct. Irresponsible because we all know that for the millions involved, there will be a huge impact on the budget results of our country this year, which, due to the new coronavirus, are already quite committed. Immoral because this government decision demonstrates, in our view, that even in a serious context such as what we live in, in which each euro counts for the government, the bank and the interests installed are in front of the citizens and are always the number one priority. Furthermore, it is ironic that the Government which claims that there is no money, for example, to finance support for micro, small and medium-sized companies' partners or for artists and professionals in the culture sector to be able to cope with serious financial difficulties, is the same government that, last week, with a little more than one month's duration of the State budget, has urgently injected many million euros to cover holes in bank mismanagement. Contrary to other parties, the NAP voted against this capital injection in the New Bank in the state budget. Whether you like it or not, this transfer has passed through Parliament and has been approved, so the parties who have made it possible and are forgotten must say: political responsibility is also yours. Moreover, the Socialist Party does not have a majority in this Parliament and this capital injection took place only because other parties allowed it. But it is important here to remember that, from here on, any new transfer of public money to the New Bank will not only have to be approved by Parliament, as, on a proposal from the NAP, approved in the State budget by all parties except the Socialist Party, the Government will have to identify the type of measure concerned, the amount, the conditions, the interest and the maximum repayment period, and this proposal will be subject to a prior technical analysis of UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) and the Council of Public Finance, two independent, credible and free from any political constraints. All of this will allow for the first time, and by the hand of the NAP, all citizens can, before the injection, know the real budgetary impact on the sustainability of the public finances of these transfers and whether or not they comply with the budgetary rules, which is one more step in the direction of transparency and which greatly strengthens the powers of Parliament. It is strange that the Social Democratic Party no longer remembers this rule which has been adopted and has come here, precisely a quarter of an hour ago, to say that it will present a legislative initiative on the subject which is already approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u17	It's only worth this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u18	And if there are any doubts about this, see Article 154. , paragraph 6, of the State budget. What is approved is what the Democratic Social Party has come to this forum saying it will cause debate and approval.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u19	It's only worth this year!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u20	However, while not mentioning here that the BES resolution was decided on the beach, it could not fail to point out that the PSD, now so concerned with the lack of audit prior to the transfer of EUR 850 million to the New Bank, is the same party that, a few months ago, with its abstention, gave its hand to the Socialist Party and led the proposal of the NAP, which it intended — they are scared! — any transfers of public money to the New Bank over EUR 850 million should be preceded by an audit. Dr. Rui Rio's PSD has already become used to having the motto « well preach frei Tomás, look at what he says, don't look at what he does» applies to him only a glove, but bank defamacy has exceeded all limits. Therefore, it would be good for the PSD to explain this inconsistency: why did the Budget preclude the existence of a previous audit for transfers of more than EUR 850 million and now comes to say, by the voice of Dr. Rui Rio, that this audit is necessary for there to be "a rigorous scrutiny" for the reasons that determine these transfers? Oh, my God! But more: whoever looks at this transfer presented to the New Bank must not fail to consider that Mário Centeno wanted to make life easier for the next Governor of Banco de Portugal, who, according to constant rumors, is a position that he wishes to occupy very much. Now, the NAP has already stood on this dance of chairs, saying that we are against, because the appointment of Mário Centeno would be filled with conflicts of interest. We have already tabled a bill which, on behalf of the transparency and independence of the Banco de Portugal, proposes that a five-year period of disgust be set which prevents the occupation of positions in the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal by persons who have held positions in the commercial bank, government and consultants working with Banco de Portugal. What I am asking the PSD is whether a finance minister meets the ethical conditions for, without a period of disgust, to go to the Banco de Portugal and it is considered that there is no conflict of interest. What I am asking the PSD is whether they still feel that there is no need to ensure that, as proposed by the NAP, more transparent rules in appointing the positions of the Board of Directors of the Banco de Portugal. What I ask the PSD is whether, once again, they will hand over to the PS and the government in the appointment of the next Governor, or will be next to anyone who wants a strong, independent Banco de Portugal from political pressures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u21	You have the floor for the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the financial crisis, the Portuguese have already paid more than 20 billion euros to try to save the bank. And when we talk about the New Bank problem, we've been talking about a problem that has been dragging for about six years. I will not bring to collage the responsibilities of the PSD Government / CDS, which are many, I will say only that the problem of the New Bank was not born now, was born with the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, who separated the bad BES from the good BES,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...when it was realized that, after all, there was no good BES. I do not know whether the Minister of Finance is right or not when he says that "this was the most disastrous bank resolution ever made in Europe", what we know is that the PSD/CDS government has created a problem but has not solved it and, every day that it is passing, we will realize that, after all, the "clean out" is becoming increasingly polluted. We know it was a process that was born wrong and «what is born wrong late or never straight», even if we are seized of such a clean exit. And we all remember the words of the then Minister of Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque, when in 2015 he told the world that there would be no cost to the taxpayer. What is true is that taxpayers are already tired of paying for the bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities. And the worst thing is that we don't even know when the tap closes, which makes it even more urgent to end the immorality that represents what we've been watching and which is very simple: when banks make profits, their shareholders divide profits between them, to millions, in silence, no one hears them, they divide the cake and they shut themselves up, very little; when the banks hurt, the state calls the taxpayers to pay the bill. Well, this cannot continue to happen. It is necessary to put an end to this immorality and to this injustice. The State cannot be taking up private business, since it puts taxpayers' money at risk. And, as we have already mentioned on other occasions, in our perspective, this paradigm shift should start with the New Bank. We should start with the solution that less charges the taxpayers and better serves the interests of the country. This should be the solution to be adopted in the case of the New Bank. To that end, it is necessary for the State to take account of the New Bank. The New Bank must remain in the hands of the State so that the State can place it at the service of the development of the country and of our economy, at the service of the interests of the Portuguese, at the service of the interests of our country. If the State pays, the New Bank must be in the hands of the State, in the hands of the payer. With regard to the transfer of more than EUR 850 million to the New Bank, it is clear that the lack of coordination in government alone in such a matter is very serious. But worse than this lack of coordination is the fact that this transfer configures the violation of a commitment made to the Portuguese by the government itself. In fact, the Government, through the Prime Minister, publicly assumed that there would only be a new transfer to the New Bank after the audit results. But what happened was that the transfer occurred before the completion of this audit. And that's exactly what matters to realize. It is interesting to understand the reasons why the government took the transfer before the audit, contrary to what it had assumed. In the face of this reversal, another issue is of interest to understand. It is of interest to understand the reasons why the government had to rely on the transfer of audit results. It was on these matters that the Greens would like the government to speak today. But further and secondly, the Resolution Fund has decided to subtract EUR 2 million from transfers to hide the fact that the administration of the New Bank has reserved this money for prizes to be distributed by 2020. We speak of bonuses in times like those we live in, with the micro, small and medium-sized companies suffocating and crying for loans from banks; we speak of bonuses in times like those we live in, when many workers have lost a substantial part of their incomes or because they have been out of work or because they were under Layoff regime; we talk about bonuses in times like what we live, when there are many families in Portugal, with difficulties in acquiring essential goods today. In conclusion, we also do not know whether it is very common to be the Resolution Fund to retain the money, the EUR 2 million, and not the Treasury itself. In any case, I would like to know whether, in fact, it was the Resolution Fund that kept the money and, if it was, why, that is, why it was the Resolution Fund and not the Treasury itself. However, it was still important to know whether the Government was heard in that kind remuneration of the New Bank and, now, in what sense the Government's response was. These are the issues that the Greens bring to discussion and that they expect the Government to clarify in this current debate we are making today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u23	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor now on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to say that the PS considers the decision of the New Bank to award management premiums to its administrators unacceptable and expects the Bank of Portugal, in its supervisory and regulatory functions, to be isolated or even jointly with the European Central Bank ( ECB ), to boycott or block the allocation of these management premiums to New Bank administrators. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would also like to say that, instead of being here discussing the foam of the days, it was important to debate the reasons why the State needed to lend EUR 850 million to the Resolution Fund, so that the Resolution Fund will inject this money into the New Bank, which is also the loan from the State to the Resolution Fund, which is authorised and approved by the State Budget for 2020. Who should be here to explain why they are those who promised that the New Bank would be a good bank, the PSD and the CDS. It is important to remember — and we must not forget — the days and months before the BES resolution, when the former President of the Republic, the former Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, re-established by the former Government, came to give evidence and confidence to the management of BES and, a few days and few weeks ago, settled the bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The BES was settled with an initial capital of EUR 4900 million and today we know that after hearing former bank officials and also the Banco de Portugal, which was a disastrous resolution and benefits, because the initial capital at the time was not 4900, more than EUR 10 billion were needed. However, the PSD and the CDS had a tremendous difficulty explaining this to the Portuguese, because, weeks before, their leaders and even a television commentator, who still makes a political comment on Sunday night, came to give confidence vows to the management of BES. That can't fall into the forgetfulness! The BES resolution, as I said earlier, was disastrous and was made to benefits. In fact, there was a party that gave its agreement to the resolution when its leader gave OK, through an email response, on the beach, enjoying a little sunshine.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u25	You're an ordinary man!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u26	This decision to resolve the BES, transferring to the New Bank a set of credits and toxic assets that should not have been transferred and should have remained in the BES, is what the ongoing audit, which will be completed within two months, will tell us, knowing who are responsible for the decisions that were responsible for these injections that the State is now obliged to make, lending money to the Resolution Fund. The former PSD / CDS government promised to sell the New Bank and did not sell it in 2015, because the sale failed and did not tell the country the truth at the time because we were few weeks away from the 2015 legislative elections. If they had told the country the truth, it would have been known that the New Bank was not a good bank. And in December 2015 the New Bank was one step away from insolvency and that is why Banco de Portugal had to transfer EUR 2000 million from the New Bank to BES, in former bonds, causing serious damage to the public accounts because it forced the Portuguese State to pay more public debt interest for several months. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: To conclude, I would like to say that the New Bank had a precarious license, i.e., was sold in 2017 or was liquidated in 2017. The sale was the least expensive alternative to taxpayers and it was this government that had to solve another heavy inheritance of PSD / CDS governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u27	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u28	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u29	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u30	Mr President, I would like to make a request for clarification to Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u31	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u32	Mr. João Paulo Correia here made a very interesting statement about the history, clearly critical of his colleagues who joined the parliamentary committee of inquiry. But the question I have to ask you is very simple. The honourable Member completely omitted the transfer of EUR 850 million and the name of Dr. Mário Centeno. [[That's the one!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u33	Didn't I say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u34	For the Socialist Party, is the Minister for Finance no longer in fact and the Portuguese still don't know? This is the answer that we all want to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u35	You have the floor to answer Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u36	Mr President, I thought Mr Duarte Pacheco was now taking advantage of the opportunity to answer the big issue I raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u37	Ah! Is he going to answer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u38	The PSD should be here explaining why it promised a good bank and, after all, the New Bank turned out to be a bank with serious damage to the state and to taxpayers. You have to give this explanation to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u39	Now, yes, it is the turn of Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : On 16 April, the CFP asked Mr Finance Minister at a hearing if, in view of the current situation, public resources are so lacking in the National Health Service, in public investment, in support of the economy and workers, he intended to maintain the transfer of EUR 850 million to the New Bank. The Minister said at the time that the transfer was done in the same way, because contracts are contracts and are to be respected. I would like the Government to address the 1 300 000 workers in layoff, with a cut of one-third of the salary, who also had contracts signed, with contractual wages, and to tell them that contracts are contracts, or to workers with false green receipts, who had service contracts and were dismissed, many of them being without any income, without money to eat, only because they were exempt from contributions to social security, or to the thousands of small entrepreneurs to whom the contractual support between the State and the bank does not reach. Contracts are contracts, but for the government there are contracts and contracts, there are commitments and commitments. And the commitments which for the government are to fulfill, whatever happens, are 850 million for the New Bank. It is truly unacceptable for this transfer to be carried out without political control by the Government, or a link between the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, and with a speed that contrasts entirely with the bureaucracy and the quantity of documents that are requested from micro and small businesses to have access to public support. These bureaucracies, as well as the banking criteria, have removed thousands of companies that are viable but that for the bank are not profitable and that are out of support. We cannot fail to point out this discrepancy of criteria: bureaucracy, difficulties posed to micro-enterprises to survive; facilities and blessings for the New Bank, paid by all Portuguese. He said that Portugal cannot afford to put a bank at risk in the midst of a crisis. In our view, it cannot be the luxury of paying for cleaning and not staying with the bank. You cannot afford to see thousands of microenterprises disappear because there are no resources to support them, but there are resources to continue burying in the New Bank. It cannot afford to ignore the manoeuvre to distribute prizes to New Bank administrators, amounting to EUR 2 million. I now refer to the proposal put forward by the PCP which prevented the payment of these prizes, but which was voted and rejected last Thursday by PS, PS, PS, CDS, PAN, Arrival and the Liberal Initiative. It is more than EUR 850 million, Mr. Members, who join the millions already handed over by the Portuguese, from the fraudulent resolution decided by the PSD Government / CDS, to the ruinous privatization at zero cost of the New Bank, with guarantees given by the State, carried out by the PS Government. This transfer and the way it has been done do not remove two fundamental problems. The first is the fact that the government has failed to meet the criteria that the government itself has set, i.e. to wait for the audit conclusions. The second is the fact that we continue to pay the BES / New Bank cleaning account and, in the end, the bank is neither ours nor ours. We continue to bury millions of euros from the Portuguese so that the bank will remain in the hands of private persons and that another bank will most likely be handed over to control of Spanish capital in the near future. We reaffirm what we have put in the State budget for 2020, that is to say no more than one cent will be handed over to the New Bank without launching the process of recovery of public control of the bank, placing it at the service of the economy and the country. It is now demonstrated once again why this proposal of the CFP — rejected by the PS, the PS, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative, the Arrival and the NAP within the Committee on Budgets and Finance — was, even more so at the moment we live and in which there is a lack of instruments, particularly in the banking sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u42	But the CFP will continue to insist on this proposal, because the New Bank cannot continue to be a bottomless hole, paid by all Portuguese, without ensuring its public control, a bottomless hole that is the result of the ruinous private management of the bank, is true, but it is also a consequence of the choices of successive governments both the PS and the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u43	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, for the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This debate is being very elucidative. We are all in agreement with the fact that there is a problem in the New Bank ; no one agrees on whose fault it is. This guilt is not just going to die unwed, it's going to die thrown. Who had the majority there are two legislatures see no problem in the model of resolution, who had the majority in the past legislature does not see any problem in the model of sale, nor in the contingent capital agreement, nor in the Byzantine form as constructed by Law No. 15 / 2019. The PS minority, supported, is known by whom, in this legislature, does not see any problem in the Budget that is already approved with this word in there and does not assume the genuine sadness that this opera is decoordinated between the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance. It is a sad exercise of collective irresponsibility. [[Protests by BE Jorge Costa and PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have many reasons to wish for the Liberal Initiative to have more Members, but today I added one more: we would have had the strength to schedule the draft resolution that we submitted on 9 December and that would have prevented the public injection of money into the Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u45	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I still think that anyone who comes from outside or any alien who arrives here would still think that Portugal is a country that was not affected by the pandemic. [[Protests by BE Jorge Costa and PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] We ask ourselves what will imagine a desperate worker to receive his salary, because the company where he works has not yet received the support of layoff, or the owner of a desperate company to receive the lines of credit that are not yet hired. What will you imagine about this debate? It is that he did not contribute to anything to solve these problems. But there is something that has to be said, because the indignation of the PS cannot be — and I apologize for the expression — inimputability. I am witnessing, this afternoon, a whitening of what happened in Banco Espírito Santo, its management, the political convergence of some governments with Banco Espírito Santo, which is simply not acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I have heard here today that the problems in the New Bank began in 2014. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, then the BES was a success case before 2014? Was everything okay with BES? So the bank wasn't broke? The bank was well managed? But what whitening is this of the Banco Espírito Santo? Oh, my God! We have or do not have judicial proceedings, with defendants, in which we investigate what happened in the Banco Espírito Santo — which takes too long, I agree with this — and in which we must also investigate what happened in the General Deposit Box and in several Portuguese banks, with the convivence of political power and with the convience, yes, of some members of a particular government, which was, yes, the PS. There is no exaltation, Mr. João Paulo Correia, that will replace this truth. The truth is that in 2011 when you left the government, the bank was in a lamentable state and, yes, the BES state was particularly bad. That was a problem that another government had to solve. Do you want to discuss the resolution? You want to discuss the difference between the balance sheet separation? I am available to discuss and also to tell you what, then, the Banco de Portugal has guaranteed, the guarantees we ask the Banco de Portugal, but I will never be — and I will never be — available for the absolute whitening of the history to which I am watching. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, or we concentrate on the present and on solving the problems we have in the present, and you are putting the same zeal that you put in the resolution of the problems of the New Bank in solving the problems of the whole economy, or, then, we will have, like the numerous committees of inquiry, one more to discuss the past and then, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there will be no whitenings or political leaders of the PS or the Banco Espírito Santo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u47	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The case that brings us here today and we hope that the Secretary of State will be able to clarify a little more than those who have so far given us either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance will be responsible for the following: irresponsibility. Actually, the Prime Minister had said there would be no transfer before there was an audit. We know that there has been, but today Mr Finance Minister said that nothing is done without going through the Council of Ministers and we are left without realizing who is telling the truth and who is telling the lie. But the worst — and we cannot let this happen in the clear — is that on the day when the President of the Republic says he would have made the transfer only after the audit, the Prime Minister responds by saying that he should apply for a second term. Perhaps it will pass by some, but it will not pass by today's attempt, when discussing the New Bank, to launch the presidential candidacy for the hosts of public opinion and the media system by night. It won't work! Mr. João Paulo Correia, you can take responsibility for anyone you want, but it was your Prime Minister who said he would only transfer the money after the audit. We can go to 2014, 2010, 2009, until we can go to 2001 – to the swamp – but the truth is there was a Prime Minister who failed in his responsibilities. I shall conclude by recalling the following: Journal de Negócios, in 2016, « Tax of Socrates to do ‘justice’ ends up paying the New Bank’.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u49	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. This tax came to an end because of the intervention at BES, the friendly bank of José Socrates. As I know, José Socrates was not the leader of any of these benches, but of the Socialist Party's bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u51	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The history of BES is indeed an old, rather old story. And it didn't start in 2014. As has already been said in this House, if the bank was already in such a bad condition in the years prior to 2014, why did the government of that time take three years to make a Resolution? Were you waiting for the 2014 bathrooms to make the intervention? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u53	He was waiting for the money because he was broke!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u54	An intervention of an incompetent resolution, a Resolution without any audit, a Resolution that created a bad bank and a bad bank! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Then, we went until 2015 and that year the miraculous sale, announced by the government, which would allow not only to recover the money injected by the state, as, eventually, still give profit, here it fails! The Bank of Portugal therefore decided to retransmit EUR 2 million of former obligations, which could even be legal, to the effect that it was irresponsible. You destroyed the credibility of the Republic! Interest rates began to rise and the increase in the interest rate involved costs for the public record of EUR 1500 million, according to our estimate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We arrived at the beginning of October 2017, with the sale of the bank, with the so-called « quota capital mechanism ». Since then there has been a recovery of Portugal's credibility, it has since been an improvement in the rating and it has since begun the fall of interest in the Portuguese Republic which has saved only in interest EUR 2000 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The EUR 2000 million that are used precisely to finance health, to finance education, to finance investment! It is this EUR 2000 million that enables us to make these policies. The quota capital mechanism has allowed for security, has allowed to limit the entry of public funds into the New Bank to EUR 3890 million, paid by the Resolution Fund, and is returned to the State over time to loans which have been granted up to EUR 850 million per year, with contributions from the banks. The study Mr. Duarte Pacheco referred to is done. Several studies are carried out until there are several audits and checks: that of the auditor of the New Bank ; that of the ECB, as supervisor ; that of the verification agent; that of the Monitoring Committee ; that of the Resolution Fund. They are five agents who intervene, a full hand of them that allows, precisely, to examine the operations. And it is in this poll that the Resolution Fund questioned the New Bank about the payment of prizes—and did so very well—... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and decided not to take account of the capitalisation that made precisely that payment of premiums, the decision that we obviously supported. In 2020, the time at which we are, the losses accumulated in assets on the quota capital mechanism are EUR 3600 million. The injection of the Resolution Fund was about EUR 3000 million — EUR 2976 million — which means that EUR 600 million was supported by the capital generated by the bank itself. The State loan was EUR 2100 million so far, meaning that EUR 900 million was supported by the own resources of the Resolution Fund with the tasks of the banking system and the State has so far received loans from the Resolution Fund EUR 500 million paid by the contributions which banks make to the Resolution Fund. That's a fair cost sharing. The loan is provided for in the State budget approved by this House, without contingencies—there is no contingency, nor in the face of any audit, nor in the face of the audit provided for in Law No 15 / 2019. The loan was made on the last contractually established day on May 6, and was EUR 850 million, subject to scrutiny by the five entities I mentioned and I can repeat. The PSD and the CDS, this in a little more populist tone, defend what, then? Do you defend that the contract should have been breached? Do you really defend that? Do you think that joining the health crisis is a banking crisis that the country needs right now? You only defend that because you know that would not happen, because you know that what you are defending is inconsequential. Do you really mean to the Portuguese that the best thing was not to have made the loan? That the best was the Resolution Fund did not make the capital injection and we are now discussing the second resolution or the liquidation of the New Bank? Is that what you think would bring the money to the companies? Oh, my God! Is that what you think the economy would benefit? Oh, my God! It's not, certainly! It is certainly not and I do not believe that they consider this to be the right measure, if it had the consequences of what they defend. He defends himself, and defends the Left Block, which is not paid without audits. We agree that it will not be paid without audits. We agree! We do not advocate resolutions made in summer time, on the beach, in a light and incompetent manner. Therefore, there is an entire prior audit mechanism for capital injection. The audit of Law No. 15 / 2019 is not a prior audit of capital injection. It is a retrospective audit that assesses the causes of losses that were in the genesis of the previous capital injection and that finds out any civil and criminal responsibilities that, upon completion, will then follow the procedures that these types of responsibilities follow in justice. It is not useful to determine the injections and capital, it is useful to ascertain their reason, the management acts and the responsibilities that have to be established. We agreed not to involve public money without audits, and that's what we did. Therefore, there were audits that are provided for in the contract. Unfortunately, this was not the case when the bank was settled in 2014. So there was public money involvement without any audit. The Communist Party and the Green Party disagree with any public capital injection in private institutions, whether or not there are audits. It is a position of principle that argues that the bank should be in the hands of the State. They defend the nationalisation of the bank. It's a coherent position. I don't agree, but I respect consistency. Alerted only to the following: in this case, any damage that would exist would be public. We are talking about the EUR 3600 million loss of the contingent capital mechanism and we are talking about the EUR 1000 million paid by Lone Star on the purchase of the bank. The government defends financial stability, because it is essential to economic growth, and defends the capitalisation of banks, especially at the time of the crisis in which we live. As Mr. Prime Minister said, the Budget is to be fulfilled. It's a loan that the state makes, it's not a expense. And the loan isn't delivering money, as somebody said. A loan is something that is to be returned and will be paid over time on the basis of the contributions that banks are making to the Resolution Fund. The contractual obligations, as has already been said today, are to be fulfilled in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u55	I request you to conclude, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u56	I shall conclude, Mr. President. The audit referred to is the one before the payment, not the one after the payment. The Government has never said or defended non-compliance with financing contracts, especially at the present time, thereby jeopardising the stability of the financial system. I reiterate, then, that there was no reinforcement of the loan and that, if it were, as determined in the Budget, this House would have to have delivered itself. We defend transparency, we advocate that everything be audited. We defend the stability and confidence of the Portuguese, but we also defend that the truth is true, even if this truth is complex and hard. We defend that the Portuguese should be clarified, because that is what is required of us and that is what they ask us to do, and that is what it is to rule for the Portuguese at exceptional times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u57	Mr Alvaro Almeida. As I was informed, as the Government no longer has time, the PSD Parliamentary Group gives 30 seconds to respond. Mr Alvaro Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the Secretary of State has now come to repeat what Mr. Minister of Finance has already told us today in the morning in the Commission. That is, there were many audits and, therefore, there was no need to make the transfer of EUR 850 million because that was what was in the contract. I recall that this contract, which potentially implies losses of EUR 3900 million, was signed by the Government of the Socialist Party and, therefore, what Mr. Minister for Finance came to say is that he had already promised to transfer EUR 850 million. I have only one question to ask you, Mr Secretary of State: if there were so many audits already done, if the transfer of the money did not require any more, why did Mr. Prime Minister, in this House, say that the transfer could only take place after the audit is completed? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u59	You have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u60	Mr President, I think I have already responded. As I said, the audit that is necessary is the one that is defined in the set of verification mechanisms: there is an external audit by the external auditor; there is a report by the verification officer; there is an opinion made by the Monitoring Committee; and there is a detailed decision of the Resolution Fund. Now, don't confuse yourself: nobody gave 3900, 3600 or 3000 million euros to the New Bank. The State lends to the Resolution Fund, the Resolution Fund injects it into the New Bank and will over time receive contributions from the banking sector to recover from this injection and pay the loans to the State, which has a defined interest rate, 2 %, and which has already led to the receipt by the State of interest amounting to EUR 500 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u61	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the Secretary of State has not heard well what has been said here. What I said was that the priority wasn't that. Mr Secretary of State, you, of the rostrum, said: "It is clear that contracts are to be fulfilled. We all know that contracts are to be fulfilled and you know very well that we had to fulfil the contract. » I would like to understand, and therefore I ask you, if you, when you leave here, instead of going back to your office in the Land of Peace, go directly to Saint Benedict to tell Mr. Prime Minister, because whoever said here that he would not fulfill the contract until there was an audit was Mr. Prime Minister. So if you come here to tell us that Mr. Prime Minister was tired of knowing that what he was saying was impossible, Mr. Secretary of State, he only has two alternatives: or he explains to us how the Prime Minister is here saying things that he is tired of knowing that they are not possible or, then, he goes there to Saint Benedict and makes his place available. He's not going back to the Land of Peace!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u63	Mr Mariana Mortágua, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the prizes that the New Bank has decided to award, I must say that they are obviously scandalous and unacceptable, but, Mr. João Paulo Correia, they exist because they were allowed by the State when it negotiated the sale of the New Bank to the Lone Star. And there is because the government, when it traded that sale, remained with 25 % of the New Bank, but without any executive decision power in that bank. Therefore, the State pays 90 % of the losses of a bank, has 25 % of its capital and has no decision-making power. If this is not a bad sale, I don't know... Ask some private if this business was accepted to sell a bank, get 25 %, take 90 % of the damage and have no decision on that bank. Neither the Government nor the Socialist Party have to shoot on top of the Banco de Portugal, as in fact made the PSD and CDS in the past the demands on the remuneration policy of the New Bank. The government has to require Lone Star and the New Bank that they do not pay bonuses, it has to legally prevent payment of these bonuses and, moreover, it has to advertise and demand knowledge of the pay policy of Lone Star. This is because what may be happening is the private shareholder of the New Bank who is creating incentives for New Bank managers to administer a guarantee against the interests of the State — an shareholder against the other shareholder and the administrators to be paid for it. The State does not know the remuneration policy and allows the payment of bonuses. So what has to be done is, legally, preventing the payment of bonuses. And it's not just the payment, it's the accumulation of the payment right in the future, because the lump sum of irony is that the New Bank cannot pay bonuses and, therefore, what it does is to create a right that it keeps in the accounts to pay in 2022, when it can. However, the administrators accumulated performance bonuses, even though the bank presented losses and presented its account to the State. This is obviously unacceptable and that is why the Bloc will present a proposal to prevent future bonus payments, but also to eliminate the rights that have been created and which should not have been because the New Bank survives with public money. With regard to the transfer to the New Bank, what is at stake today and now is not the original Resolution of 2014, which was ruinous because that Resolution was, yes, ruinous. The Banco de Portugal has not given an account to anyone, nor has it yet published the audit it did to its own intervention. What is at stake today is not the sale, which has not been better, because of what we have already explained: the state is 25%, but pays 90 % of the damage; Lone Star is 75 % and takes 10 % of the damage. What is at stake today is not even the guarantee that the Government has agreed to give to the private buyer in the amount equivalent to the injection that had already been made of EUR 3900 million. What's in issue is simple. Mr. Prime Minister, who is head of this government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u65	I should!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u66	... committed itself, in this Assembly of the Republic, twice, to having an audit in hand before the transfer took place. And it wasn't any audit, it wasn't one of the audits or the legal certification of accounts. The audit Mr. Prime Minister referred to was a specific audit, which was determined by law, an audit for which the Ministry of Finance made a statement, saying that, in view of the massive injections into the New Bank, the Ministry of Finance decided to determine an audit. She needed so much that this was admitted by the Ministry of Finance. And it was this audit that Mr. Prime Minister said he wanted to know before he authorized an injection into the New Bank. Now, the injection was made and this audit was not ready, that is, the compromise was not taken. That is the boot that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Secretary of State have been able to take off foot until now. Why has the Minister of Finance not fulfilled the commitment which was made publicly on 22 April and, again, on 4 May, by the Prime Minister, which referred to a specific audit, which we all know what it is, because it was debated publicly for many months and for which the Left Block asked several questions in — I venture to say — all the hearings with the Minister of Finance and in almost all the debates of the 15th year? So, Mr Secretary of State, we still have no answer to this question. I'm adding another question. There would be only one way to prevent these transfers: if a proposal had been adopted that any new transfer would have to come to the Assembly of the Republic. I apologize to Mr André Silva, even if I may have good intentions, but, I am sorry, that is not what is said in the State budget. What is said in the State budget is that any transfer above 850 million must come to the Assembly of the Republic. This was the NAP proposal and was the PSD proposal. This proposal is equivalent to proposing nothing, because what counts is transfers below EUR 850 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u67	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u68	This is what the PSD will now propose, even though it has plunged into the State budget ; that is what the Left Block will propose, repeating what it has already presented in the State budget ; and that is what can make a difference in the 1000 million that still remain of the public guarantee. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u69	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Mr André Ventura: Do you remember who asked for BES in the submarine consortium? Do you remember, Mrs Cecilia Meireles? Oh, my God! Paulo Portas. And where was Mr. André Ventura at the time? In the PSD, with the Rabbit Step Government! It's good to know each one's position! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, I have seen and heard him ask from the rostrum, which country is this. Mr. Deputy, this is not the Country from 2011 to 2015, it is not the Country where bank resolutions were made by telephone and on the beach. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u71	Don't! It is a different country, it is a country where people and rulers assume their responsibilities before the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u72	We're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u73	And since you have not been able to assume your responsibilities, this government is taking them forward. It is because hiding EUR 6 billion in toxic assets in a bank that, theoretically, would make a profit—that was what was told to the Portuguese—is to deceive the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, what we are doing is paying for the EUR 6 billion that you put under the carpet! And I explain why! Because they didn't want to sacrifice this on the altar of a clean exit, because they had elections some time later. And for you, at the time—and I hope it's not the same today! — everything is worth, when it comes to votes. The PS is different, this government is different and that is why we are here in a different way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u74	Mr Afonso Oliveira spoke for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We had a moment of humor here starring Mr.Deputy of the Socialist Party because, if there was a toxic moment, it was before 2011. There was a toxic government that took the country where it took! But it is not worth talking about, that is not the subject of today, however, that was the toxic moment. [[PSD applause.]] At the end of this debate, there are some conclusions we can already draw. First of all, there is a conclusion which has already been drawn today in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, when we hear Mr Minister, and that now in the afternoon in this debate remains. The conclusion is the same, there is no big change: that the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister were very bad. They weren't good! Mr. Minister for Finance, as I have already told you this morning, clearly at the hearing in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, has failed! And it failed when it did not value the fact that the Portuguese State was transferring to the Resolution Fund the amount of EUR 850 million. The fact is that transferring EUR 850 million, lending EUR 850 million to the Resolution Fund is not an administrative act. It is not enough to say, as we heard in the morning in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, that a heading is provided for in the Budget to transfer that amount. But that's not what's at stake here. What is at stake is that this deserves a debate, it deserves an analysis, it deserves scrutiny. That is what must be done and that is not what has been done. It is therefore not enough to say that it was in the State budget. Borrowing the Resolution Fund EUR 850 million is not EUR 850! It is an amount that the Portuguese understand that it is of such a dimension that it requires the scrutiny of a discussion. This is a very serious matter and the Minister for Finance has failed when there was a need for scrutiny and rigour! Secondly, at a time when the country demands criteria, transparency, adjusted and voted political decisions, it is not acceptable that Mr Finance Minister has not given it the importance that it was absolutely demanding. Let me also say, Mr Secretary of State — and this morning the Minister heard what we told him about this — that I do not understand how, with so much information, as you said here, he had on the audits with so much debate — and in the morning he also said that he was debated in the Council of Ministers — there is no prior knowledge of this matter. How come Mr. Prime Minister doesn't know about this? Have you, after all, transmitted this information to the Prime Minister or not? I always doubt it. But the amount of data presented here today leaves us a little puzzled about how the information did not come to the knowledge of Mr. Prime Minister. The truth is that Portuguese people today live a very difficult time, with personal dramas, with very high income breaks, with exponential growth of unemployment, with people at home, in layoff, with great difficulties and failures of income. It is not acceptable that the subject should not be dealt with with in terms of the requirement and transparency with which these issues need to be dealt with! Thirdly, how is it possible for the resolution fund to be lent — and again I repeat — without Mr Prime Minister's knowledge? The question remains, an almost existential doubt. I don't understand. We don't really understand how this is possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u76	Not even the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u77	We do not understand how it is possible for the Prime Minister to come to the public to apologize for a situation — as has already been mentioned in the debate and as you have also mentioned — which has been discussed so often in the government. I don't understand how there's no knowledge. Leave us this perplexity. Fourthly, we want to make it clear that the PSD knows the commitment that the Government has, resulting from the New Bank's sales agreement and that it clearly has to accept the commitment. We are responsible and we believe that the commitments of the government and the country are to be fulfilled. We always defend that the state's commitments must be fulfilled! Taking on commitments, fulfilling the responsibilities of the State, the answer is yes! Do things like the Government and the Minister for Finance want to be a 'no', it is a 'no' round!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u78	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u79	Mr President, if I may leave a final note to clarify a very important issue. We have mentioned here that we are going to present a legislative initiative to amend the model, so let us say that this subject is dealt with in Parliament. It is important that it is understood that the government should take this decision. In our view, there must be a prior debate in Parliament on this subject so that there can be knowledge of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u80	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u81	That's our point. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u82	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u83	Mr President, it is not so much an intervention, but further clarification to Mr Fernando Anastácio. Mr. Deputies said it was the CDS that had taken BES to something — I no longer remember what it was — that it had to do with military acquisitions... [[PS Member Protest Fernando Anastácio.]] Sir, I'd like to clarify... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to allow the honourable Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u85	Mr. Deputy said the CDS had taken BES to the submarines. As I have already had the opportunity to clarify in another Parliamentary committee this statement is factually false. That's a lie, sir. The BES—I think it was referring to the Escom—entered the process of acquisition of submarines, except for error—I will quote in color—in 1998 when the Government was of the Socialist Party. I had the opportunity to clarify this and other questions in a committee of inquiry with Mrs Ana Gomes, who, in fact, apologized for this and other inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u87	Therefore, Mr President, with regard to things that are manifestly false, I would like the House to provide the floor to the honourable Member so that he can verify the lie that he has just said in this plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u88	We have thus reached the end of the first item on the agenda. We are now on the second point with political statements. The first political statement is from the Greens, and Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is again plunged into a crisis with effects on all sectors of activity and on all dimensions of our lives. After the citizens were asked to be confined at home and having the generality of the citizens respected this guidance—a lot, indeed, with a huge personal sacrifice, because it involved a substantial loss of their income—it is time to start generating some normality and find public policy responses that are up to a developed country and committed to generating quality of life and well-being for people. It tells us the common sense that we need to learn from the mistakes of the past, and that is why today, more than ever, an intervention state is required, proactive and determined in the necessary investments, as soon as it does not put the blindness of the deficit in the face of the necessary answers that citizens need and that are fundamental to the development of the country. On the other hand, this crisis can, however, draw some conclusions and look at it as an opportunity to rethink the priorities that have guided our lives, how we live, produce and consume and how we relate to nature. First, we realize that the more strengthened the National Health Service is, the more appropriate it will be to respond to crises like the one we are living. Therefore, this crisis reinforces the need to invest seriously in the SNS and the appreciation of its professionals. It was also clear that we must turn to national production and regain our food sovereignty, not only because it is crucial to reduce the ecological footprint, but also because, in times like those we live, countries need to be able to respond to their citizens. It is therefore necessary to boost family farming, small-scale and biological, to give life to the status of family agriculture and to revive the proximity markets and small distribution circuits, which are fundamental until farmers can drain their products. The State's role in the economy must be re-equarated and the bank should be put at the service of economic recovery, instead of continuing to transfer public resources to support private banks, resources which are indispensable for the desired recovery of the economy. It is also time to evaluate public-private partnerships(PPI) and put an end to the brutal immorality that tax havens represent. It is EUR million that can and must be channeled to fight poverty, to ensure support for families who have lost their income from this crisis and to support small businesses, so that they can also contribute to the revival of the economy. But it is also time to re-equalize this economic model, based on the unbridled exploitation of natural resources, which powers high health risks and promotes strong environmental impacts, in addition to dramatically deepening social inequalities. It is necessary to reverse the premises because, after all, it is the economy that exists to serve people, not the people who exist to serve the economy. Therefore, when we talk about the objectives of the economy, the discussion must be based on the well-being of people, the fair distribution of wealth by all produced, the reconciliation of professional life with family life, the fight against regional asymmetries and the establishment of a relationship of harmony and balance with nature. The climate crisis, the frightening loss of biodiversity and the unsustainable use of natural resources cannot fail to be present in today's concerns, because they will certainly require greater challenges tomorrow. That is also why this pandemic cannot serve as an excuse to reduce investment in determining areas to ensure ecological balance, such as conservation of nature or the transport sector. Let us see: during these days, pollution rates have fallen considerably, especially because pendulum displacements have stopped occurring massively. However, this data reinforces the need and opportunity for the Greens' proposals for serious public transport betting at socially fair prices so that they can represent a real alternative to the daily use of the particular car. The Greens therefore insist on the need to strengthen the schedules and circulating material, increasing the supply of public transport, providing the country with a greater coverage, with a greater incidence on the railway, extending the scope of the social pass, but also promoting the use of soft or active modes of transport, in particular with the implementation of a national network of cycl roads, with links between municipalities and regions. Let us therefore look at this crisis as the turning point in our priorities and question what we have been accepting as normal, in particular, the economic model that depends on its survival from the unbridled exploitation of natural resources; the possibility given to large companies that, by producing their profits in our country, place their tax office in Holland not to pay taxes here; a tax system that allows some to live in tax havens, for general living in real tax hell; a model in which bankers divide profits when banks make profits, but which calls taxpayers to pay the irresponsibility of bankers when banks damage. It can't be! There's a lot wrong in this whole thing! That is why we say that this crisis serves at least to question ourselves about these and other injustices and immorality and the relationship we have with the planet. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u90	Mr. José Luís Ferreira, three Mr. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I should like to know if everyone is responding, in the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u91	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u92	Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, this pandemic has turned our lives on the contrary, there is no way to hide. We will have times of great turbulence ahead, times that will test us as individuals, as society, times that will require the best of us, in behalf of all. We must look at this calamity, resulting from a health crisis, and realize that we have an opportunity to accelerate many processes of change, in order to move towards a more just and sustainable society. The Portuguese do not give up a more prosperous and less unequal collective future. The last crisis forced thousands of women and men to leave Portugal, looking for a better life. Many were returning and bringing with them a future full of dreams. It is for those who have returned and for those who have always been here that we have the responsibility to do everything that is within our reach so that these life projects do not fade away. The post-COVID is the opportunity to change some habits, review routines and set our development model in a green economy that contributes to the creation of wealth and well-being. We have excellent resources to realize this change: science, technology, creative industries and natural resources. This is the time to strengthen modernization in our productive sector, to implement a fiscal policy that benefits companies and activities that meet sustainability criteria. But this crisis has also accelerated the changes that must exist in the agriculture sector, for example, especially in the need to shorten production, distribution and consumption chains, thus contributing to the reduction of ecological footprint. Finally, and no less important, I wanted to say with pride that it was the Portuguese Government that made the commitment to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, assuming a 50 % reduction in carbon emissions in 2030. This reduction is only mobilising many of the sectors of society, increasingly betting on a policy of digitizing the economy, electrifying mobility, strengthening public transport and other forms of mobility. In conclusion, I would like to say that many of us, for these days, breathe less air pollution and hear less noise. This pandemic has shown us that excessive noise and pollution...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u95	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. As I was saying, this pandemic has shown us that excess noise and pollution are not an inevitability of those who live in cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u96	For clarifications, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I begin by greeting the Greens Ecologist Party for bringing, at this point of political declarations, an important issue, which is the post-COVID-19. In fact, this pandemic has caused serious economic, social and human difficulties, which, unfortunately, will be felt over time. Therefore, PSD understands that there must be an action plan that goes beyond this time of COVID-19. We understand that the Assembly of the Republic and the Government have been creating a set of measures to deal with this pandemic situation that we are living in, but they are clearly insufficient. Today, we see that there are a number of families with serious difficulties; we see today that there is an increase in the unemployment situation; we find today many difficulties on the part of companies in maintaining jobs and on the part of institutions in giving social responses, so the government must start an action that must be global, transversal between the various ministries, in order to respond to these many needs that are felt. We understand, and we agree, that there must be an economic recovery plan, but in parallel with this economic recovery plan, it is essential to turn to those who are currently in a situation of greater fragility and vulnerability. Therefore, we understand that there must be a social response plan, a social emergency plan that goes beyond the measures that are currently in force and to be applied, a plan that serves precisely to address the situation that will be felt over time and where, as you said, environmental concerns are also reflected. Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he is accompanying the PSD in this concern and whether there is a structured, cross-sectional plan which answers economic and social emergency issues. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u98	For clarifications, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, I welcome the subject which brought the debate to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, the outbreak shows, as it has pointed out, the importance of the SNS, the serious structural problems and the dependence of the country and reveals how it is being used as a pretext for capital to aggravate exploitation, attack rights, reduce wages, destroy jobs, deepening poverty and inequalities. This shows that the solution to existing problems is not the policy of exploitation and impoverishment that characterized the period of the troikas, but an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that guarantees the sovereign development of the country, a policy that allows the recovery of the instruments of economic and monetary sovereignty, with the release of the country from submission to the euro, and measures that hinder the escalation of the weight of debt. There is a need for a policy of valuing work and workers, wages, stability in employment, combating precariousness, a policy that guarantees the full payment of wages, the prohibition of redundancies, the extension of social support and the protection of workers' health. We defend the promotion of national production, combating dependence and deficits, and supporting the income of micro and small entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized farmers and fishermen, ensuring national supply and flow of production. As he pointed out in his speech, we also believe that at the same time it is necessary to put an end to the current mode of capitalist production, which leads to the abuse of natural resources, to the destruction of the forest, which leads to pollution, overproduction, waste and excessive consumption. We also defend the public control of the bank, the recovery for the public sector of the basic and strategic sectors of the economy, the investment in public services, health, education, social support, science, culture, mobility and, as well, in strengthening public transport, with more careers and more times, to respond to the needs of the population. A very big step has been taken with the creation of the social pass and it is necessary to continue to walk towards reducing the costs for the population. A policy is needed to combat the tax privileges of large capital, tax havens, fraud and tax evasion and to put an end to transfers of financial resources to PPPs and banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u100	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u101	I shall conclude, Madam President. We defend the protection of nature and the guarantee of a balanced and healthy environment. That is why the question that I am leaving, Mr President, is whether, in fact, the Greens Ecological Party accompanies the CFP in the need to move forward on this path, in order to respond to national problems, corresponding to the interests of the workers, the people and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u102	Mr Nelson Peralta, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, in fact, COVID-19 has brought a painful moment for society, from the very beginning on the issue of public health, but also because of increasing social inequalities. Let us first look at who has been responding to the crisis. Of course, workers, men and women, who, in the front line, with their work, guarantee the functioning of society and the well-being of all of us, such as public services, health, education, social security and so many more areas. We look at the current economic model and we see that it has failed. He failed the workers, in the salary, and failed the public service, in funding. That is why the revival of the economy has to solve this problem, it has to guarantee universal and well-funded public services and an economic model that ensures that wealth is also shared by workers, for their work. That is also why this economic model, which has brought us not only social inequalities but also, through the same processes, the climate crisis, must be changed. The relaunching of the economy should have as priority the change of relations in society in order to have more equality and an economic system which does not depend on the continuous and absolute extraction of resources for the production of wealth, but which is oriented towards the needs of people and the planet. That is also the proposal which the Left Block has already put forward in this House of the Republic and which will be discussed shortly. My question to the honourable Member is precisely whether to follow this proposal from the Left Block, to relaunch the economy that abandons oil, that abandons the infinite exploitation of resources, that is sustainable and that has distribution of wealth through job creation where it is necessary in order to change our energy model, to change our agricultural model, to guarantee public transport and to invest in railways throughout the country. Does it agree with us when we say that there is a need for more equal economic recovery, with more public services, with social and climate justice, and that it responds to the needs of each and every one of us, of society and of the planet? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u104	To request clarification, the latter has the floor of Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the subject which is obviously timely and we are absolutely in agreement with the concern regarding economic recovery, respect for environmental values and also the need for decarbonisation. We believe that this is the opportunity that we should take advantage of to find a new standard that is environmentally sustainable, contrary to what has happened so far. We believe that the State should base all actions and investments on the concept of creating a sustainable economy, placing on renewable energy and energy efficiency, rail, quantity and quality of collective transport, promoting sustainable tourism, increasing product sustainability, increasing reusable packaging, education for sustainability, among many other things. The question I ask you, Mr President, is whether or not you agree that the State should, in addition to what I have just said, encourage the bank to use these same criteria as regards the financing of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u106	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u107	Madam President, I would like to thank you for giving me the exact number of questions, because five of them would have answered twice when I was asked how I wanted to answer. But I get it. Maybe the inscriptions were made later. Anyway, I will try to respect time in response to the five gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u108	You're right, sir. There were late inscriptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u109	Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the questions addressed to me by the five Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by replying to Mr Hugo Pires of the Socialist Party. In fact, the crisis has turned our lives. I am glad that there is this signal from the PS that we will have the PS to seek a more just and sustainable society. I also think that the health crisis should also be an opportunity to put the economy on the basis of what you said, a green and sustainable economy. On carbon neutrality, we have already had the opportunity to note that Portugal was the first to assume it. What we're going to expect is that it's not all put back for the last year. So let the steps be taken gradually and do not wait until the end so that then neutrality comes one day to the other, because so we do not go there. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, in fact this pandemic has brought serious consequences in the future, as she has well mentioned. A set of measures has been taken that are insufficient. That is why today there are many people with difficulties even to buy food goods, there are families with difficulties at this level. There is a loss of generalized income, because either people have been out of work or are under layoff and therefore have lost a substantial part of their income. As for the economic recovery plan, it will naturally depend on its content and then we will certainly be open to discussion to see what proposals this plan envisages and, above all, its content, because speaking in abstract is more complicated to make any judgment of value. But it is necessary, it is, and it will be necessary for the future. Mrs Paula Santos, in fact the bank continues to win with the crisis. In fact, one of the repairs that we have to make to the government about the measures that have been taken was that we have put the bank as an intermediary between the State and the credit lines, also giving the bank the discretionary power to decide which small companies that had access to the credit lines and which did not have access to the credit lines, even meeting the criteria that the Government has defined for this purpose. In any case, we also subscribe to the idea that we have to be serious about national production in order to also seek our food sovereignty because before we entered the EEC ( European Economic Community ) we imported 25 % of the products we consume, from a food point of view, and today we import 75 %. We need to reverse this trend. Mr Nelson Peralta, in fact, were the workers in the front line as well as the public services, especially the National Health Service. If we had a reflection on the problem that would be for everyone if we did not have the National Health Service, despite the cuts and the underfinancing to which it was subjected, things would certainly be much worse. Therefore, if there is anything that is due in this fight not only to the government, it is also to whom you have been behind, the National Health Service, which was able to give the possible answer. The revival of the economy has in fact to be based not only on the question of the sustainability of the planet, but also on the fair distribution of wealth by all produced in a just manner, of course, because that is the only way there will be sustainable development. Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP, as I said in the intervention, the crisis should represent a new opportunity for us to seek a new normality that is more sustainable, which can only be extracted from the planet those resources that are necessary to, in this way, not mortgage the future, because in the future they will be needed. Energy efficiency, public transport bet...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u110	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u111	I will finish, Madam President. I would therefore like to tell you, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, that the Greens follow this global idea of forcing the bank to have this criterion of weighting in the incentives it makes to the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u112	As has been seen, there was a great deal of tolerance on the part of the Bureau, either in relation to late inscriptions, or in relation to the answer of Mr José Luís Ferreira, who was also misled. Therefore, from now on, I ask the honourable Members. Members who are aware that requests for clarification should be made in the course of the speech of the speaker, because the Bureau will not continue to be as tolerant as it has so far. For a political statement, Mr Pedro do Carmo, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal, Europe and the world are faced with an enormous public health challenge, the biggest and most demanding for decades, which brings us back to the essential and reasonable. More than stressing the risks of globalisation, as if it were possible to return to the " proudly alone" or pure theoretical models, without implementation at any point on the planet, which I have often seen being defended here, we are faced with an insurmountable global dynamic, with risks, which should involve new regional and national balances, new priorities and new strategic statements. No one thinks of stopping the wind, but we use it to generate renewable energy. in this pandemic, Portugal needed the National Health Service, and this said :« Present! The Bible says: “He does not know what we are doing. ” Portugal needed the rural world, its productive capacity, our agriculture and its producers, and they said: « Present! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Once again, the interior, agriculture, livestock, fishing and other productive sectors responded and met the needs of the Portuguese and positioned themselves in national consciousness as central strategic assets of Portugal's assertion in normality and emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As in the issues of the forest, we have been referred to the essential: to see reality, to take a bath of realism. We therefore need to maintain an agro-food productive capacity that, in a sustainable framework, ensures the basic needs of the population, is welcomed by the distribution and reaches the table of Portuguese, traditional media or digital media. In the face of the call, in a state of need, farmers, producers and fishermen once again said: « Present! », in a framework where political decision makers maintained important interactions with the sectors and decided well, in the right time. It is to see the campaign "Let us feed who feeds us" or the support provided to the ranks of our agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Still in full pandemic challenge, it is clear, essentially, that the rural world has responded to the challenge of ensuring the food supply chain of Portuguese, continuing problems and blockades resulting from demand reduction due to the suspension of hotel and restaurant activities and disturbances in local markets. The national production capacity has therefore assumed a centrality, has adapted to new distribution realities and needs to continue to be accompanied to overcome the blockades and consolidate its position in a new 'normal' that we have to get used to. Local and regional products have gained greater digital presence — they can reach citizens directly without them having to leave home. This strengthening of rural potential on the digital platform, with the help of sowing anyone at home, has and must continue to be deepened. The idea may never be to end traditions, but, yes, to create spaces of affirmation for the ranks of the earth and the sea, to have more respect for whom he creates, for whom he gives us quality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the midst of too many bad news from the pandemic, this is an unmistakable reality: distribution can sell more national product, Portuguese can buy more products generated in the mainland, the Azores and Madeira. Men and women who, on land and at sea, take advantage of natural resources to produce and provide exceptional quality products are ready to continue to respond. We have thus been retrained, by the emergency, to a society of common sense and to a reasonable economy. We need to continue this effort to enhance productive capacity and to believe in our agriculture. We need to support, believe and act in accordance with our consumption habits. It is necessary to consume and demand more national products, an appreciation and a requirement that are good for the national economy, good for employment and essential for our resilience capacity in all scenarios, including those of the challenge of climate change,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... an appreciation and a requirement that are fundamental to rural communities and local economies. The new 'normal' must be nationally produced. I conclude by stressing what good sense society and the economy should be. The common sense society will be the one that, in the face of the conditionalisms and the teachings of the pandemic, makes the necessary adjustments to preserve human lives, safeguard community dynamics and protect the most vulnerable. The economy of the reasonable, Mr. Members, it will be the one who, before the teachings of the pandemic, strengthens its resilience to the risks, deepens its potential for productive capacity and adjusts the functioning to the new habits and dynamics of citizens and communities. With the contribution of the rural world, Portugal can be a society of common sense and a reasonable economy. We're all going to have to give a new value to rurality! in this context of regret for the loss of human lives, resilience of communities and sublime examples of service mission according to others, especially in the National Health Service and in the support of essential goods and services, it is important to do what is necessary, always but always, focused on the essential, to be more prepared, more resilient and more confident in relation to the future. The rural world or, better, the real world, which has always been in this register, will once again say: « Present! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And it is from this present that the future will be made, with a new 'normal', which will be national production. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u114	The Bureau recorded seven entries by Mrs. Members for requests for clarification. How does Mr Pedro do Carmo want to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u115	Mr President, first of all to the first three of us. Members and then the other four Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u116	All right. Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro do Carmo, in Portugal, agricultural production is mainly guaranteed by mini-fund and family farms. However, regardless of its size, the difficulty of farmers is not in production, but in the sale of their products — it is good, it is bad. For decades, the PS and PSD governments have promoted the opening of large supermarkets and destroyed local markets and, today, these large multinational distribution chains practice the prices they want, make farmers and fishermen pay promotions they make, apply the discounts they understand, charge consumers and, eventually, some still pay taxes abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u119	Mr. Deputies, we have often found farmers selling their production below the cost of production. The same is true for fishermen where sometimes the prices paid to producers are 10 times lower than the consumer pays. at this time of pandemic, it was no different. Therefore, the question I would like to ask you is whether the Socialist Party is available to follow the Left Block proposal to establish maximum intermediation rates and minimum prices above production costs, in order to ensure fair prices to the producer and the consumer and to end the abuse of large distribution. It is not a matter of common sense and reasonableness, but of justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u120	For clarifications, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u121	Mr President, first of all I welcome the PS Parliamentary Group for bringing the issue of agriculture to debate in this period of political declarations. Mr President, in fact, some of the things I have said here are really what we all stand for, which is the defence of the rural world, the importance of agriculture, livestock, distribution, production... What it has shown now! Mr President, I must also note, as I regret, that I normally see you defending these positions, but I do not see you accompanied by your parliamentary group. from then on, the first question I have to ask you is whether your parliamentary group subscribes to everything that you have said here. Let us go: we agree with the food who feeds it, of course, and with everything that comes to help the rural world and the sector. The PSD always agrees and will always be next to the solution. However, Mr President, I can also remind you of your interview — this one today, which is also on the same portal in the Agroportal. What does the President of Fernepecuaria (National Federation of Agricultural Producer Cooperatives) say even today? It says: 'farmers require political decisions to continue to feed the country. Do not keep on seeking. ” Yes, this essential function, which is food, is being ensured by the producers, but not by effective measures, because the only thing we have seen so far is advances, advances, advances in the CAP (common agricultural policy). New money in the sector, zero! All we've seen are advances that are given today and that will be missing tomorrow! This is the reality. Moreover, our productive capacity is fundamental to defending the rural world, as the PSD has come to do throughout this legislature, and, say, passage, almost always alone. I ask you, honourable Member, whether the PS will support a number of draft resolutions and bills which have entered this Parliament and which are attacked by the rural world, production, livestock, food.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u122	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u123	Will the PS be next to these diplomas or will you be with the rural world, as Mr. Deputies said? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u124	So much violence against a simple recommendation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u125	Mr André Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u126	Madam President, Mr Pedro do Carmo, if the PS could make statements of vote following his political statement, it would be good to know how many they would be made. The honourable Member spoke about the society of common sense and the economy of the reasonable, but that is not enough to help the sectors or to put food on the family table. This requires a little more than reasonableness and a sensible economy. Yesterday we heard the National Confederation of Agriculture talk about the difficulty of flow — and you know that as well as I do, especially on the online platforms, which you mentioned, and well, in particular what has been the sabotage of this work and the difficulty in paying and charging fees in these services. What is the PS willing to do about this? On the cherry, we heard their producers complain. After all, the country is not as good as PS likes to paint. The government has left this for insurance — the insurance that they solve. It can't be! These men and women, who for years have paid taxes, are now entitled to our help. What is the PS willing to do about it? He also referred to the fisheries sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u127	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u128	I will finish, Madam President. He referred to the fisheries sector, but the fact is that the government has left the fishermen to the wage-guarantee fund and to loans with interest subsidies. What is the PS willing to do to put effective liquidity in this industry?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u129	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u130	Mr President, Mr Ricardo Vicente here raised questions concerning the fact that the PS had put this issue on the agenda and appealed to consumption. I was clear in my speech when I said clearly that, at this difficult time in the country, agriculture responded in an exemplary way. And he did not answer in an exemplary way by chance, it was by the value of the men of the earth and the sea who were prepared and had the mechanisms. The decision-makers decided at the right time, and decided well, and placed on the agenda a food campaign to which we all have an obligation to correspond and to which we must all respond not only in this Parliament but also in our attitudes and consumption habits. This was the subject I wanted to bring here and that it was necessary to bring here. In fact, the PS has always brought to this House, at this time, what is essential, with good sense and with the responsibility that is inevitable. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, I do not know what projects she has talked about, but it has always been the Socialist Party, in the front line, to take positions in defense of the rural world, rurality and agriculture, a balanced agriculture, a true agriculture, a sustainable agriculture that respects the environment, but has production levels that allow us to export. It is these two types of agriculture that I spoke about when I mentioned the tributary that there has to be a balance and a sense of responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Emilia Cerqueira and PCP João Dias.]] When I spoke—and I repeat—in an idyllic vision, which has no application anywhere on the planet, that's where the PS leads the process, that's where the PS shows that actually makes the difference. Of course, I am grateful for the compliments you have mentioned, but I must say that you have forgotten to read the entire interview, which focuses most of the positive points and the speed with which solutions were made in agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u131	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u132	I shall conclude by saying to Mr Ventura that it seems that it is not, of course, part of the economy of reasonable sense or common sense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u133	To request clarification, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u134	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro do Carmo, at present, and always, the worst blind is the one you do not want to see. The problems of agriculture are far greater than those which the government identifies and are more meaningful and visible in small and medium-sized agriculture. That is why the CFP, still yesterday, presented to the Assembly of the Republic a bill with measures to support small and medium-sized farmers, proposing to increase the annual payment of the small farming scheme to €1250. And, in this case, Mrs. Members, the Government cannot excuse the impediment of the European Commission, because in this case the rules of the common agricultural policy allow it to go further, allow a payment that can go up to €1250, and the impediment is the government, which does not want to help the survival of thousands of farmers, who are in the immediate vicinity of losing all the effort and the work of a lifetime. Farmers, who have withdrawn the possibility of disposal of their products, have been without the market, have been without the restaurants, have bought the products, have been left with the products, have lost their income — as small producers of indigenous breeds say, wine producers, milk producers, fruit producers, among many others — see prices of their products falling every day and now see themselves in a very difficult situation and without support. We therefore advocate measures of immediate application, easy access, uncomplicated, unburocratized, measures that we should use, as well as all existing aid mechanisms and adapt them to those who need the most, i.e., small and medium-sized agriculture. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, according to the CFP, the measures to support the agricultural sector which have been implemented to respond to the effects of the current situation are insufficient and should therefore be accompanied by measures which guarantee the flow of agricultural products from small farmers and family farming and which reduce the costs of agricultural and livestock production factors. The CFP advocates the creation of a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized agriculture and that promotes the flow...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u135	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u136	In conclusion, Madam President, with two questions: no flow, no fair prices for production, no specific support, how will the small and medium-sized agriculture survive? And, Mr Pedro do Carmo, I would like to ask you whether you will follow the proposals and bills presented by the CFP and which would respond to the needs of small and medium-sized agriculture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u137	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u138	Mr President, Mr Pedro do Carmo, I would first of all like to congratulate you on the subject that brings you to the debate: agriculture, combating desertification, the rural world and, above all, the recovery of our food sovereignty. I believe that this health crisis has made it clear that we must even turn to national production and regain our food sovereignty not only because it is decisive in reducing the ecological footprint, but also because, in times like what we live, countries need to be able to ensure the answers to the citizens. It is therefore necessary to regain our food sovereignty and reverse the trend which, in fact, tends to worsen, because when we entered into what was at the time the EEC, we imported only 254 % of the food we consumed and then imported 75 % of the products we consumed. Therefore, this trend must be reversed. And I would find here two reasons why this happened: on the one hand, certainly, as you will remember, in some governments, especially in the Government of Cavaco Silva, money was given to people to abandon agriculture, to tear their plantations off; and on the other hand, the proliferation of the large areas, especially the liberalisation of the timetables, has created many difficulties for small farmers to drain their products into the large areas, which are today the great ambassadors of the import of food products. In fact, it is not quite clear how on large surfaces there is no Portuguese potato when Portuguese farmers cannot dig their potatoes and when these large surfaces say they are supporting national production! It was, in fact, after the liberalisation of the schedules of the large areas that the markets lost strength, that they began to close. Markets were very important to our farmers, because they were a way of draining their products. We therefore believe that it is necessary to boost small-scale and biological family farming, to re-establish proximity markets and small distribution circuits, which are essential for farmers to be able to drain their products.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u139	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u140	I will finish, Madam President. But, Mr President, I have a question to ask you, which is the following: whether or not you see the status of family farming as very important, which this Government has finally approved, but which you need to leave the role, because there is no way for the government to move forward with the status of family farming? I would therefore like to know, Mr Pedro do Carmo, if we can count on you to pressure the Government to take the status of family farming out of the role.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u141	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u142	Madam President, I would also like to greet Mr Pedro do Carmo for bringing here the issue of agriculture and the rural world. I would like to begin by saying that agriculture and the rural world have actually been up to date, and well at this point: who does not remember, at the beginning of this pandemic, hearing to speak in some fear that there could be a breakdown in food supply? Well, it was quite visible that this didn't happen. in the same way, I also liked to hear you value the rural world and I would just like to remind you that we discussed a consultative council of the rural world and regret that the Socialist Party at that time did not value the rural world in this way. In fact, one of the main threats that the rural world and agriculture have gone through is a certain vision of a little urban-distrusted in relation to the agricultural sector, as if somehow it had harmed the land or people. This is a preconceived view of the rural world, which, I think, the political power should oppose and I have seen, with all honesty, not on the part of the honourable Member, but on the part of his party, a certain compact with this vision. Therefore, I would like to ask you if this is an inflection of the Socialist Party, which is welcome. Finally, I would like to ask you this: it is true that there has not been a breakdown in supply, but it is also true that there are many farmers, especially fruit farmers — I am reminding myself of the producers of cherry and peach — and also of livestock producers, who feel that their usual distribution circuits are blocked, especially producers who have sold to the hotel and to the restoration. Digital market initiatives are good, but this obviously does not respond to the overwhelming majority of farmers and, on the other hand, it is also natural that there will be a price drop in many agricultural goods. And that will, in time, be a problem, so I ask you what is planned from that point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u143	For clarifications, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I welcome, of course, the PS for bringing this issue to plenary, which is so important, and I also acknowledge that, indeed, farmers had a great reaction capacity to all the conditions caused by the health crisis. In fact, agriculture has gained a vital weight here, which it already had, but now even stronger, as a national asset in this time of pandemic. Fortunately, it was not necessary to close the borders to the transport of goods, otherwise, in addition to the health crisis, we would have a problem of lack of food, because, in fact, Portugal is only self-sufficient in the production of milk, eggs, maize, wine and little more. What I want to say with this is that our food sovereignty is at stake, and this is due to inadequate agricultural policies which, consecutively, give in to the interests of the agri-food industry, where large producers are given priority to the detriment of family agriculture, where highly polluting agricultural production methods are heavily subsidized to the detriment of more sustainable practices, such as organic farming, where monoculture is fostered instead of multiple and variety-rich production and where profit always prevails over the common good. It is not enough to be national, although this is obviously important, but it must also be sustainable. See the case of Alentejo : under the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020, until February 2019, olive investment in this region represented almost 65 % of the total agricultural investment in Alentejo. The evenings gave rise to a new megalate based on international funds with six large groups to hold or manage more than 65 % of the region's olives. They are the great beneficiaries of the greatest public investment ever made in Portuguese agriculture. All this adds to the fact that agricultural workers, many of them immigrants, are subject to angry conditions and to which no one should be subject. I ask Mr Pedro do Carmo whether or not there is a willingness to implement policies aimed at ensuring food sovereignty, on the one hand, and whether the PS is willing to work towards an effective promotion of agriculture in a biological way and no longer subsidizing production modes with significant environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u145	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr Pedro do Carmo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u146	Mr President, I welcome and thank Mr. José Luís Ferreira because, as he has spoken, it is seen that he has indeed listened to and accompanied all my explanation and he certainly sees himself in this society of common sense in this economy of reason. I was, of course, pleased with that. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, of course I also spoke of the constraints and the blockades, they exist. We are not in a situation where we would like to be or be desirable, we are indeed at a very difficult time to overcome the crisis of this pandemic, and this sector has blockades. What's important is that we've been up to it and we've been able to overcome the problems. There were political decisions and measures to accompany the actors, the men of the land and the women of the sea, and to give a solution. This has been done and the Socialist Party has led the process in this direction. It is this balance with the rural world that needs to be highlighted here. Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP spoke about the issue of « proudly alone ». I am not here defending a closed country, which produces only what is of interest and wanting to be self-sufficient in everything. We are in the European Union, we must share with the European Union, we must have a shared economy, but we must also have an agriculture that produces and responds to all these situations. Mr. João Dias didn't hear anything I said. He wanted to talk here a little bit about what he doesn't know. It's against the CAP, but he wants the CAP to solve the problems. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] The honourable Member spoke of family agriculture, but indeed the one who gave solutions for family agriculture was the Socialist Party, who managed to do what is desirable and necessary for our country: to have a family agriculture, to have the Family Agriculture Statute and to respect small farmers and to have a competitive agriculture capable of exporting and ensuring a strong contribution to the national economy. It is this balance that is difficult and that the Socialist Party has achieved, but it has not been with your help. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u147	For a political declaration, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is with concern that the CFP has accompanied the situation of families with children who attend the various child support equipment. These families were charged, even during the closure of the equipment, the payment of the monthlyities of the institutions, while many working mothers and parents lost their jobs, lost their wages, felt the increase in family expenses, creating difficulties added to the payment of these monthlyities and being this even irresponsible payment in many situations. The Government's responses to this situation have been and are clearly insufficient. It was to ensure immediate responses to families in the face of the difficulties that are created with the breakdown of wages and income, as well as to create measures that take into account the financial difficulties with which many institutions of social solidarity are confronted that the CFP discussed last week a legislative initiative proposing the revision of monthly incomes in order to reflect the change in family incomes and a reduction of at least 20 % of the same monthlyities in the period of suspension of educational and non-leaving activities; the change in the period that serves as a basis for this review, which is being carried out on the basis of the incomes of the last two months; the prohibition on the cancellation of registration or collection of fees or fines for non-compliance with the payment of monthlyities in the period of closure of the valences; and the extension of vacancies covered by the cooperation agreements in child support, creating equal criteria for the calculation of monthlyity between children who attends all guarantees of infance and guarantees of the possibility of the possibility of reduction. This is an initiative that would give the urgent response that families need and that would allow institutions to have conditions for the continuity of the response, but which, unfortunately, has been rejected. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the many difficulties felt and all the problems arising from the payment or not of the monthlyities confirm the need to ensure a public network, universal and free of charge, as the CFP has defended. If today there were a public network of daycare centres and if the public network of pre-schoolers were to be expanded, in order to ensure that all children from three years of age would not be asked any question in relation to monthly education, because they would simply not exist. For this reason, the CFP insists again, having given new legislative initiative on the freeness of day care for all children until they enter preschool. It is urgent to implement what has been approved in the State budget on a proposal from the CFP. The project we delivered this week clarifys the speedy procedure to be adopted, ensuring that, with its speedy implementation, a reduction in the expenditure of family aggregates is effective at such a difficult time for many families, faced with layoffs, unemployment and loss of wages and other incomes. Not abdicating the creation of a public daycare network with a guarantee of a vacancy from the end of the maternity and paternity leave and free access for all children until entry into preschool, the PCP proposes that this goal can be implemented phased up until the universality of this right is ensured for all children. For the CFP, childcare valence should provide the childcare and socialization component while the parents work, but should also have adequate and specialized human and technical resources to fulfil their role in the development of children. The day-care centre shall, in its operation, be compatible with times of exchange of interests and learning, with spaces in which independence and autonomy can be exercised, according to the stages of development of children, according to age and at their own pace. It is also in order to move forward in this direction that the CFP proposes measures to strengthen the number of workers in social equipment where there are shortcomings, through the creation of a worker recruitment grant under the responsibility of Social Security, to ensure that the reinforcement is carried out according to the needs and priorities to be defined, ensuring the effective recruitment of such workers. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are also concerned about the current reopening of child support equipment, considering that there have come to us many concerns of the institutions about reopening, as well as concerns and doubts of mothers and parents who are at odds with unclear information. In order for the day care centres to be able to reopen safely for children and their families and for workers it is necessary to ensure health protection measures and prevention of infection, as well as conditions for the operation of equipment. The Government must give families confidence, creating conditions for the safe operation of day care centres and clarifying indications that have been given and that are causing unrest and indignation—the CFP has already questioned the government about this situation—but also about the reopening of pre-school and ATL, which we will continue to follow closely and intervention. It is necessary to respond to problems and difficulties of conjuncural character for an exceptional picture such as what we live, but they need to be included in a broad response to structural problems that affect the network of equipment and services in the area of social action. The CFP argues that the guarantee of social rights, including the existence of child support equipment and services, young people, the elderly, people with disabilities, people with social exclusion, among other social responses, is a primary responsibility of the State. Subsequent governments have transferred this responsibility to private institutions of social solidarity, whose role we recognize as important, but as a complement to the public responses to which the State is constitutionally obliged. The implementation of a public network in this area represents the fulfilment of a social function of the State which it must call upon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u149	The Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u150	I shall reply together to the first two and then to the last three, Mrs President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u151	In order to formulate the first request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u152	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, thank you very much for bringing to the debate this very important issue, especially since on Monday it is expected the opening of the day-care centres. And the honourable Member said, and quite well, as is also explained in the DGS guidance document ( Directorate-General for Health ), that the role of day care workers is essentially a role in the care and socialization of children up to three years of age. The honourable Member also said that there were many complaints about DGS guidelines because they were unclear. Mr Member, I think that unfortunately they are quite clear! The problem is not clear, it is enforceable! Mrs Deputies, I am going to give you some examples of DGS guidelines of what seems to me to be a challenge to be safeguarded by daycare: 'Toys that children can possibly take with you...' — in principle they should not take toys for daycare because we know that children up to three years old do not need their own toys, nor do they have a safe toy in their company, but we will admit that they do not take it and that this is not violence for them — '... they should be washed regularly, at least two to three times a day'. Well, I suppose there's someone responsible for doing this washing two to three times a day, drying with certainty, and even cleaning, if necessary! Open... Another orientation is: « If possible, the doors and windows of the open rooms should be kept to allow for better air circulation ». I also think a good idea, as long as the children don't fall anywhere or throw themselves out of a window below, because, meanwhile, the educator will be washing the toy and there will be no occasion to be controlling. Finally, I mean—and, frankly, my favorite is this: «The mattresses should be separated in order to ensure as much physical distance as possible, keeping the positions of the feet and heads of alternate children». I know that children up to the age of three are children, but in principle they move while they are resting. I see it's very difficult to ensure that they stay, all the time of the sixth with their heads turned each to their side! I suppose until this came from the « lift episode », in which Dr. Graça Freitas would turn, with the other elements, each to her side and thus safeguard security!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u153	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u154	I conclude by asking whether the CFP does not understand that these measures are inequable and that, in this respect, respecting these guidelines, the day-care centres will not be able to open. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u155	To make a request for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u156	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I welcome you for bringing this topic up and also for allowing me, on behalf of the Socialist Party, to express the satisfaction I feel in remembering that in the history of these 50 years of democracy have been the governments of the Socialist Party to guarantee the universality of the rights and social benefits of the elderly and children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u157	in this measure, and with this crisis of COVID, this was not only maintained as it intensified. We were the first in Europe, through the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, to track all employees of social equipment in Portugal, with the success and effectiveness that is known. We have given support to thousands of families to keep their jobs through layoff. In childhood and day care we have maintained all cooperation agreements, with the guarantee of social security. We had already guaranteed, in the State budget, a reduction in participation for those who saw it reduce their income. We have been increasing the number of day care centres in the path of universalization through the PARES Programme. There have already been 130 applications for more than 7000 places this year and it has already been ensured that where there are State guaranteed cooperation cuts people who do not have incomes are not without place at daycare. And the two decisive measures and the most fundamental of all is that families, through the social security budget, were able to stay at home without loss of link to employment and without loss of all their income. And this measure has already been extended until 1 June, which means that anyone who does not want to put the children on the day-care centre, with all the hygiene and safety measures that have been ensured, can keep them at home until 1 June. Finally, I would like to ask the honourable Member, who knows that there are many parties and governments that do not have this social sensitivity, if she does not think that these measures that are being taken are decisive in combating social inequalities, such measures that, most of the time, if not all, have been accompanied by the CFP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u158	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u159	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr Ana Rita Bessa and Mr João Paulo Pedrosa asked the questions they asked. In a very brief way, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the guidelines published by DGS today have a set of indications and the fact that they are unclear refers, of course, to information which often reaches families and also institutions, in particular to information which came before the publication of this document. We understand that it is absolutely essential to ensure the reopening of the day care centres that they have the conditions to comply with all the safety standards defined by the DGS, in the context in which we currently live, and this is both valid for children and workers of the institutions themselves. It is also important to understand, for example, whether the spaces of the institutions — and this is one of the questions that the CFP has already addressed to the Government — are sufficient to meet another DGS orientation that has to do with reducing the number of children in these areas. We know that at the moment there are institutions that have cancelled inscriptions that have initially accepted because, within their rooms, they have no room to welcome all the children. These are our concerns and we believe that the government must find solutions for both these and other concerns. We understand that these problems require firm intervention by the Government, which gives the necessary confidence to families so that they can put their children in the day care centres and other child support equipment, because this is also what we are talking about, of course. Mr. João Paulo Pedrosa, after the intervention you have made, there are some things that we cannot stop talking about. Guaranteeing employment through layoff is objectively something that does not happen in practice. Mr President, the layoff that a group of companies is resorting to means the loss of income to hundreds of thousands of workers. In addition, there are more than 1,300 000 workers in layoff situations, and this has an immediate impact on family income, particularly on the issue of monthly payments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u160	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u161	In conclusion, Madam President, it was important, for example, that the Government had ensured that there would be no penalty or cancellation of the registration for non-compliance with the families. Objectively, families are with less income at the moment. This is a reality that needs to be answered, and the government has not responded properly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u162	For clarifications, Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we live at a particularly difficult time and, at this stage of defination, with an attempt to return to normal control, we are subject to new challenges. The Portuguese had the ability to adapt quickly to new forms of work at home, with new labour challenges, and to work at the same time as caregivers and educators of their children. I would like to commend the CFP for bringing the debate on this issue on the day when the DGS officially disclosed the guidelines for the reopening of the day-care centres. It is a matter that concerns us and that concerns parents and educators. In recent days several have been the concerns demonstrated by sector entities and associations after some of the measures officially announced by the DGS have come to the public. The PSD Parliamentary Group sees with concern and accompanies some of the concerns of parents, educators and institutions. We understand that the Government must be able to create the necessary conditions for the reopening of the day, safeguarding children and families, but still safeguarding the institutions and their sustainability. The government can't leave anyone behind. We reaffirm what we said in last week's debate on this subject: the State cannot leave the families, private institutions and the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) unprotected and delivered to its lot. It is with concern that we are aware that the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will give different treatment to private day care, which will be forced to open doors. The social state must be able to respond to all. There are no first and second children. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD will want to hear entities and professionals from the sector. Mrs Diana Ferreira, I ask you if you follow the concerns of the PSD. Does the PCP agree to the reopening and the model that is being adopted? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u164	To request clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, as you know, the Greens accompany concerns about the possibility that some children may be losing their place in the day care centres for the non-payment of the proper monthly amount in the period of confinement. On our initiative in this House, we recommend that the Government mobilise the institutions in order to promote agreements to adjust the value of monthly donations with families so that they are not further damaged by the fact that they have lost income or employment. On the other hand, we recall that it is urgent to draw up a plan to create a public network of day care centres covering the whole country, with a view to ensuring free day care for all children up to the age of three, as the honourable Member mentioned in her speech. However, with the reopening of the daycare centers on May 18, we give voice to the concerns and doubts raised by parents and professionals, so that it is possible to resume the routines in safety, for children and for professionals. There is a lot of uncertainty, the virus responses are still scarce and perhaps that is why DGS indications are not properly understood. What is at stake is the dynamics in the relationship between children and educators and auxiliaries, the pedagogical work and encouragement of the child's development is concerned. Affection, touch, sharing, playfulness are dimensions based on an interaction of proximity practically impossible to be banned, under the penalty of contributing negatively to the development of the child as a whole and of harming the links of the child with the reference adults, with whom it must establish confidence and security. I therefore ask you: in order to ensure the balance between the need to respond to all the parents who have to return to work, the advantage that socialisation activities have for children and the indispensable safety for all, do you not agree that supervision actions should already be planned at the day-care facilities, in order to determine whether they meet security conditions to ensure that they are reopened?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u166	To request clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u167	Madam President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, this pandemic was fulminant in the way it revealed the problems of a daycare network delivered to the market. This is true on the question of monthlyity, and that is why the Block also presented a project to prevent children from being out of the picture because of the lack of income from families, but now it is also true on the issue of the reopening of day care centres, because, as everyone understands, it is not possible to impose on children the behaviors of adults. The initially known rules of isolation of children are absurd, impractical and, in fact, counterproductive in the face of all that is known of what is necessary for the pedagogical follow-up and the development of children. At the same time, however, it is important for children to return to day care. It is important for families and it is important for children themselves, for their development. This is why everything indicates — and it seems that the DGS has already retreated to that effect — that the only measure that can be effective is that of the children's groups in various rooms, which, of course, implies more human resources and more vagueness. And that is where the problem of the market and the absence of a public daycare service comes in. What I ask you is whether it is not essential at this time to maintain financial support for parents who decide to stay at home with children while there are not enough vacancies in a public network to ensure that they can return to day care facilities in conditions of breakdown of rooms, in conditions that generate trust in families, because it is important that children return to day care. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u168	In reply, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u169	Madam President, I thank Mrs Helga Correia, Mrs Mariana Silva and Mrs Joana Mortágua for the questions they have raised. Mrs Helga Correia, as we said at the outset, we believe that for the day-to-day day-to-day day we need to ensure a set of security measures for both children and workers. We should have done something and we would ask the government about it, as if, for example, this plan to plan the reopening of the day-care centres was done together with the institutions and also with the organizations representing those workers. This is also an important matter, which cannot be forgotten, because these workers also have to be properly protected and safeguarded. If there are institutions that do not succeed in reopening, either on May 18 or June 1, we also question the Government about what any support mechanisms it intends to allocate. In fact, and also responding to Mrs.Jona Mortagua, support for parents who currently exist is much less than what is needed. As support can be maintained, it is far from necessary because, for many parents, it means the loss of income at the end of the month, and this is a reality which the CFP presented soon when the discussion of the decree which gave rise to a set of these measures took place. We also ask the Government about, for example, the reality of the social security and family care groups that exist in our country, and we do not have any clear information on how this dimension of response will work in social child support equipment. Mrs Mariana Silva, with regard to the issue of monitoring actions, we believe that the Government must monitor all this development very closely, it must accompany the institutions, it must be present, it must be on the ground and it must ensure that the institutions have the conditions to welcome children with the standards of health and safety properly met, in accordance with what is stipulated in the various health plans, considering the current context. in this answer, we must not fail to reaffirm that the reality and the moment in which we live prove that it is absolutely imperative to take decisive steps in the construction of a public network of day care centres that responds to all the needs felt and that it has the appropriate number of professionals, because this reality will naturally require the strengthening of the number of professionals to accompany children. Of course, this would be done much faster and fairer if it were the State to guarantee this same answer. The response and social support are a responsibility of the State, being framed in the social functions of the State from a constitutional point of view. This is what the CFP has defended and that is what we have brought to the discussion, again, in this political statement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u170	For a political declaration, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u171	Mr. President, first it's the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u172	I'm sorry, Your Honor, you're right. You have the floor for a political statement by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than two months have passed since the COVID-19 changed a set of assurances that we had acquired. From day to day, we have been forced to change behaviors in order to ensure the most basic that each one of us has — his life and his health. While most of us remained at home in confinement, there were those who had to continue physically in their work and away from their families, the true heroes who were and continue to be in front of the fight to COVID-19 : health professionals, security and relief forces and services, the Armed Forces, essential public services or management and maintenance of essential infrastructures. They are professionals to whom the legislator has called essentials, but to whom not all the effort and recognition has been returned that long ago, and not only now, is due. The Portuguese society has done its part, either supporting it or staying at home whenever possible, but the Government and the Assembly of the Republic have to do more, they have to recognize the fundamental role that all these professionals deserve. The applause may be a comfort in adverse times like these in which we live, but they are not enough to justify the deprivations and fears that this scenario provokes. The applause is not enough to repay dedication and commitment to the next. The applause does not come, or close, to compensate for the risk of seeing your safety and that of your relatives in question. And do not say that there is no money for all these professionals to be valued when, for years, a blank check is passed to the bank, whose guarantee has been made on account of taxpayers' money. Portugal has long been indebted to these and other professionals. Too long ago, see! We have professionals with low, physical and psychologically exhausted wages, with adverse working conditions, and with few human and material means to perform functions appropriately for their work. The government used to tell us that it was not the time, because we had a surplus. It's not time either, because we're in crisis. When, after all, is that time? Well, we say time is now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! For gratitude, for justice and because there are sectors absolutely indispensable to our society where it is urgent to strengthen the collective response! Especially at a time when scenarios like the present are expected to happen in the very near future and in an increasingly frequent manner. And that is also why this is also the time to integrate the 2453 health professionals while arriving at the National Health Service. It is time for the appreciation of all professionals in the front line and for passing from applause to practice. And this is where it becomes incomprehensible that so many proposals in this direction, which have already passed through this House, have been successively rejected. For example, I am talking about the proposal for a 20% pay supplement to enhance the dedication of professionals in this particularly difficult period, the proposal to raise their salaries and to approximate them from the European average, since Portuguese doctors were of the few who saw their wages reduced between 2010 and 2017, and nurses are of the least received for their work in the OECD. Or I am also talking about the proposal for the allocation of the status of a risk profession and consequent payment of the risk allowance to the security forces, decisive elements in this period for the implementation of unpopular and difficult-to-monitor measures. All these proposals, from the NAP, which aimed at real appreciation of these professionals, were incomprehensiblely plummeted in this House. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the relief of health measures, it is now essential to ensure the protection of other professionals, also essential, although not recognised in the letter of the law. We are talking about all those who are now taking up their work, particularly in such sensitive areas as education. Many are the reservations raised by the school community—and we have already had the opportunity to hear here today about this topic—in recent days as regards this attempt to return to normality, already on the 18th day, with families and educators who are understandably cautious and with many doubts as to the success of defination. The return to presence activities should be done in security and a climate of confidence, something that does not seem to us to be happening, either on the return of classes of 11. o and 12. years, whether it's on the daycare grounds. And with regard to this issue, or the Government guarantees to date the necessary conditions and the protection of teachers, educators, young people and children for the return to the present classes and for the reopening of the daycare centers, or you will have to postpone this return. That do not repeat with these professionals the mistakes made with health professionals, households or the distribution and logistics - errors that made us have a high percentage, for example, of infected professionals. In fact, it is not acceptable for civil society, professionals, non-governmental organizations, associations or business fabric to assume the responsibilities of the Government. We therefore reiterate that the transition from the state of emergency to the state of disaster does not serve the Government 'to shake the water from the hood', pushing others who are their responsibilities, in particular to ensure that this return to normality is done safely for all people. But let us also not forget the responsibilities that this House has, which are not only exclusive to the government. So let us call ourselves our responsibilities, because you have your hands. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not enough for these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u174	Mrs. Deputy, six Members have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u175	Madam President, I shall reply together to a group of three Members. Members and then another group of three Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u176	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Alberto Machado, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u177	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, the political statement that has just given by the appreciation of health professionals is generally in line with the draft resolution recently submitted by the PSD, in which we recommend to the Government the adoption of a set of recognition measures to the SNS workers involved in the fight against COVID-19 disease. The PSD believes it is imperative to recognize the role of health professionals, especially those working in the SNS, whose self-denial, personal sacrifice, sense of duty and professionalism have contributed to the relatively low rates of patients infected and deaths by COVID-19 in our country. We must not forget the specific conditions of professional exercise that put these professionals at risk of infection with COVID-19 much increased in relation to the generality of people. Nor can we forget the sacrifices that many have made by turning away from their families because of their deep fear of transmission of the disease. It must also be recognized that these professionals have been placed in the face of much higher working time, in addition to their functions, they are being exercised under conditions of particular stress, penosity and with restrictions of some labour rights, circumstances that occur in an already pre-existing context of professional wear and that greatly contribute to increasing the risk of labor burnout. The PSD believes that it is necessary for the State to recognize the high and relevant services provided, in favour of the common good, by the workers of the health sector most directly involved in the fight against COVID-19. This recognition should be expressed at the level of holiday enjoyment on the basis of the working days provided in this pandemic, in the award of a performance premium of 50 % of the basic remuneration and in the award of a distinction by the Ministry of Health for exemplary behavior to SNS professionals involved in combating this pandemic. In view of the above and the content of your political statement, I ask you: is the Parliamentary Group of the PAN available to follow the PSD, voting in favour of our draft resolution? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u178	For clarifications, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u179	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of course, in the CDS we appreciate the work of all the professionals who were on the front line, as you say, and well, from health professionals to security officers, shopkeepers, retailers, producers and so many other essential services workers, who, as a whole, ensured that everyone else could stay safe and respect isolation. The appreciation of health professionals is a matter dealt with in a draft resolution of the CDS, already discussed. But it would have been even better if a set of failures had been precautioned, for which we warned in good time, from the protection of these workers and health professionals, to whom masks, gloves, personal protective equipment and tests were missing. As a result, 477 doctors, 838 nurses, 774 operational assistants, 152 technical assistants and 107 superior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians were infected, as you know. It would have been good if this situation had also been prevented as a way of valuing its work. She then spoke to the honourable Member of the professionals who are now returning to their places of work and who, of course, need security on this return, as far as we are concerned. However, in the opinion of the CDS, it has failed to speak of another group of workers, those who now end the state of emergency deserve the focus of our attention and which, in some ways, are the next first line of professionals. It is those who have lost their jobs and those who are in layoff, whose number is estimated, in the case of unemployed, at an increase of 100 000 and, in the case of layoff employees, who have not yet been reimbursed by the Government in the part it is responsible for, around 500 000 to 600 000 workers. I ask you whether these are not also front-line workers, if they do not deserve the work of Parliament, and in particular the work of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u180	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u181	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, we fully agree. In fact, if there are professionals who have been abused in Portugal, by this government, these have been the health professionals and the professionals of the security forces. And, in fact, beating hands isn't enough. As the honourable Member said, and well in time it was said that there was surplus and therefore there were no conditions to pay and now that we are in crisis, there are no conditions to pay again. However, it should be borne in mind, Madam Member, that who also allowed this surplus budget to be approved — without these conditions and without the more than 150 amendments he proposed and that, nevertheless, they were rejected by the Socialist Party — was the NAP, with its abstention, at the time of its vote. So what you come here today is, more or less, this: "They didn't give when they had and now they don't give, but I gave them my hand to them because they needed it." Now, this is a language that is difficult to understand for the common electorate. He also spoke of the risk allowance. It is clear today that not only health professionals such as safety professionals and others in the front line, such as transport and some educational institutions, are in a vulnerable situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u182	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u183	I shall conclude, Madam President. Does the NAP agree that they too can have access to the risk allowance within the framework of a social crisis supplement?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u184	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u185	Mr President, seeking to answer the various questions, I would begin by welcoming the PSD for finally joining all of us in this concern with the appreciation of health professionals. It is, I remember, that there may not have been a greater phase of disinvestment in the area of health during the time of government, in the time of the troika, in particular the devaluation of the National Health Service in favour of what is the private initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u187	Finally, therefore, join us. We hope that the one who is the largest party in the opposition will assume the responsibility, when we bring measures to this House, not to call them 'wolve Parliamentary folklore' and join us in a serious and structural debate that we have to do for these professionals. Therefore, the NAP will obviously be next to these professionals. So is the PSD. On the issue of the CDS, which deals with a question also raised by the PSD, concerning infections caused by the labour issue, of course the NAP accompanies this concern. I recall that we have introduced several measures concerning VAT on masks and other protective equipment. We fully agree and, in that sense, we support that it translates into concrete measures. Although we are no longer in a state of emergency, we cannot forget that, even in a state of calamity, it is a problem that persists. Therefore, there were several recommendations that we brought in this direction. With regard to the layoff—and the question that brings us is quite relevant—, I remember that the NAP called Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security to Parliament precisely to be heard because we cannot leave these workers behind. We must realize in what context there were delays, we must also realize what measures will be taken to ensure that there will be no dismissals. Moreover, the NAP also proposed, because it is a pressing issue, that the needs for increased social income should be reviewed. And even with regard to the question of support for self-employed people, there is a concern here about the value that has been recorded in the state of emergency because we must also extend to the state of calamity. We therefore fully support your concerns and we will be here to do this debate. With regard to the question from Mr Ventura, from the Arrival, I understand that perhaps for those who see him at home, arguing that some abstain and extend their hands is easier than working and presenting concrete measures. But the latter is the most difficult way, the stone path is always the most difficult, Mr. Now, the NAP has done its job. The NAP presented proposals for improvement of the State budget, proposals that were rejected and could have changed the lives of these professionals. But we have also been able to get so many other measures, which have come in some way to help the Portuguese. We do not resign from this debate and from following this path. If the honourable Member resigns, that is with you — it is more beautiful in the newspapers and Facebook publications. — but that is not the way we are going. The way we are going is to bring the debate solutions and alternatives to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u188	For clarifications, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u189	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement here. If there is something that this outbreak has confirmed, it is something that the PCP has been saying for several years: the National Health Service is the effective response to resolve all health issues of the Portuguese population and workers, whether in the context of prevention or in the context of treatment. It is fair, of course, that this recognition be made to the National Health Service, but not only today, now, also for the future, indeed, as it should have been done in the past, and the CFP has done so at all times. Mrs Deputie, the employees of the Public Administration, and many have indeed been in line with this fight, namely those of health, the forces and security services, the wastes and a number of others who continue to ensure the operation of various public services, but also the workers of the private sector, the workers of the social sector, which guarantee the response in social equipment, and still the workers of the distribution, who have played an absolutely fundamental role in the front line, in response to the people of our country at the moment, deserve to be valued not only with backs or praised words, they deserve a significant appreciation, which is, of course, wage valuation. There are employees of the Public Administration who have their life suspended, with careers frozen for more than 10 years, and who have the right — it is of the utmost justice — to which they are guaranteed the necessary wage recovery. I would like to understand what the NAP understands about the possible retreat from the government, in view of the commitment it has made with the public administration workers, that there are more significant wage increases in the next year because, at this time, it already gives the saying, and also the need to integrate into the National Health Service, with effective link, as the PCP proposed, the health workers who were hired in the context in which we live. We would also like to understand how the NAP stands in relation to the wage valuation of private sector workers, large economic groups and the big patronage,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u190	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u191	... that they continue to pay very low wages to workers who are currently responding to the populations, ensuring, in fact, several responses also in the front line of the fight against this outbreak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u192	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u193	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I would like to congratulate you on your speech and the subject which you brought to this House. The first statement I would like to make is that, for the Socialist Party, the appreciation of the professionals who are in front of the fight against this crisis is not only due today, it is always due, always, Mrs. And that is what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has done, in support of the Government, in this legislature and in the previous, in which it was possible, at the level of public service workers, to reverse pay cuts, to restore the 35 hours of work, to defuse careers, to regularize the situation of workers with precarious links and, at the level of health professionals, in a very particular way, to value them, from the proposal for a health base, with the replacement of the increases due by performing extraordinary additional work and, clearly, with the strengthening of professionals in the National Health Service. With the last government, it was possible to hire more professionals at all levels for the National Health Service and there was a recovery of the National Health Service that was fundamental to the capacity that today has to be able to respond to the crisis and the needs of people infected with the COVID-19 virus. But if in the last legislation it was possible to strengthen the National Health Service or, I would say, to recover it, it remains at the heart of our concerns in this Parliament and the presentation of the State Budget for 2020 has placed it at the heart of this year's priorities and this Legislation. The honourable Member spoke about low wages. The question of the low wages of these professionals cannot be decontextualized from the low wages in general of workers in our country. And this is also a central issue of the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u194	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u195	Finally, Madam President, I would just like to ask Mrs Inês de Sousa Real if she does not think that the response to the crisis has to be balanced, not only by the appreciation of the professionals who are responding to the pandemic but also by the solution that it is necessary to give to the economic and social crisis that this pandemic will provoke and that it must necessarily be balanced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u196	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u197	Madam President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, health professionals are essential and I hope that there is no doubt about this, even among those who in the past said that they were state fats, that as a labour force they were exportable and that they were spent that should be cut in the National Health Service. Today, there can be no doubt that they are essential for society and for the country. It is obvious that applause is deserved, it is obvious that words of recognition are of the greatest justice, but it is also obvious that you cannot stay there, nor can you stay for the presentation of some draft resolutions, such as those announced today, for example by the PSD, when, at the time when they were called to vote bills that instituted, for example, the risk allowance, they plunged these bills. Therefore, we cannot stay here, we cannot say that they are essential and very important and then by the back, deceive them or attract them. This can't happen! What has to happen is, in fact, the recognition of the risk inherent in the profession of these health professionals and therefore a risk allowance, yes, and also the journey towards the creation of a status of risk and penosity associated with these professions. What has to happen is to ensure that all health professionals, and it is already more than 3000 of the SNS who have been infected with COVID-19, have the right to be treated with professional disease, with a remuneration of 100 %. What has to happen is the final recruitment of all professionals who have been hired temporarily and the hiring of the 8400 who have been promised during the debate on the State budget for 2020, and who are to be hired by 2020. What has to happen is fair careers, because we cannot honor the heroes we so often say that they are in the National Health Service, but then have operational assistants to earn just over 600 €. This is what the Left Block has come to propose and will continue to propose and vote. The question is, therefore, whether the NAP and the honourable Member will also follow these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u198	To respond to requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u199	Madam President, I am starting precisely with the last question which Mr Moisés Ferreira referred to. In fact, it is not enough to be supportive of these professionals. More: he mentioned, and well, the question of rejection of the proposals brought here, not only by the NAP, but also by other political forces, to recognise, for example, the allocation of the risk allowance to these professionals, and, in this case in particular, the 108 Members of the Socialist Party voted against, rejected the proposal. Therefore, also responding to Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, there must be an effective balance, but in addition to a financial balance, there must also be coherence and priorities — consistency in voting and priorities when investing and allocating money. And I leave very clear examples, Mrs. Deputies. Montijo and New Bank Airport, last year, more than EUR 1000 million was injected — how many health professionals could we not value? Oh, my God! The metropolitan circular line will cost more than 200 million euros to the state than it could be — how many security forces professionals could we value, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! For the serious fight against corruption, I beat us in this House so that, within the framework of the State budget, the necessary tools could be guaranteed, because corruption costs the State more than EUR 18 billion annually, how many measures to support the Layoff, for example, could we guarantee with a word of this? Oh, my God! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a need to set priorities here. And the priorities for the NAP must be people. With these priorities, yes, we will be able to ensure a more balanced budget. This is the way we hope that, finally, the Socialist Party will resume, until it has mentioned recently, and well, that there has been a resumption of priorities at the level of the National Health Service, but that is not enough. The money that was invested does not cover the deficit, the large debt that already existed in the National Health Service, over successive decades of disinvestment that caused its rupture. We are at a crucial and decisive moment for the future of the country and, indeed, we realize, well, responding to Mrs Diana Ferreira, who have areas that are fundamental, so here we will be to support these concerns. And, Mrs Deputies, you are absolutely right: it is not worth turning the public against the private, it is not worth saying that civil servants are going to be paid or compensated for a debt they have and that the rest are not. That is not the way, the path must indeed be balanced and responsible, but above all there must be priorities, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u200	For a political declaration, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today, 72 days have passed since the first case of COVID disease was declared in Portugal. in these 72 days much has changed in the lives of the Portuguese. For an epidemic that should be remembered, the government initially devalued, we spent 45 days in a state of emergency, to which we are opposed and which, as is now confirmed by the scope of the measures in a state of calamity, was unnecessary. in these 72 days: we have stopped seeing the friends, the family, even the one who is at home and who initially advised us to visit; we have become wearing masks, such as they were discouraged and are now mandatory; we have lowered the level of scrutiny and demand with whom we rule and have installed an unhealthy unanimity in democracy; many people, more than 2 million people, have stopped working, have been unemployed, or layoff, in the compulsory closures of stores, services and restaurants and the economy have stopped, and today we will have the deepest recession of which there is registration; the support delays in reaching the land, wrapped up in the meshes of bureaucracy and in the drag of political decisions, leaving whole segments of the population without solution for weeks, as it happened with the partners-managers and with the dentists and how it happens with thousands of businesses throughout the country; the tourism, which has resulted in the latest economic recovery, it will take time to recover the 70 % of the trades, it has not been made available, and it is clear that it is not so much time that it has been done, the 'we' the 'has' the 'we' the 'we' the'reignignignity of 'we'. He says it was lucky. Because it is one of those cases in which one can say that luck does a lot of work and Mr. Prime Minister would do well not to wait for luck to resume this or any other sector. But there was also in these 72 days what went well: we contained the disease, we flattened the curve. The government now strives to stand in front of the photograph, in a struggle for popularity with the President of the Republic, to fight this which the Government does not want to lose again, as happened in the 2017 fires. this time, he wants to keep the prizes of a result that, in fact, has been owed more to people than to the government, to those of the public sector and the private and social sector, to those who were on the front line and to the many others who provided so many essential services and who were self-confined even before they were forced. in these 72 days, we also watched the populist opportunisms on the left and right. On the left, populists see in this crisis a pretext to defend nationalizations, demands and expropriations, ban dividends, layoffs and know what else is there. Prohibitions and obligations are with them! Attacking without ending the private initiative and the creators of wealth and employment is their wet dream. And if TAP, Efacec or CTT end up nationalized, you can be sure that these left-wing populists will not be around. Their hatred of the private will only be satisfied when they nationalize their own people. On the right of populist maneuvers are equally regrettable. And I don't say any more, just not to play the game that they just want controversial or media stage. in these 72 days, there was still one who, skilfully, wanted to launch a few myths. The myth of confusing the generally deserved praise to the performance of public services in an attempt to convince us that public services must be provided exclusively by the State. They don't! The myth, this even cartilage that all socialists have decorated, that this crisis has emphasized the importance of the social state, as if this directly justified the existence of a heavy state and of unreasonable taxes. Maybe anyone who has no imagination or is only worried about soundbite believes that, but we are not and there are many examples of liberal countries that give us reason. The cartilage is wrong. And finally, the myth that only the State can save the economy, through massive public investment. For I tell you already here that, without due technical scrutiny and financial weighting, a new outbreak of public investment without interest to the economy will result in the same that it reduced when it was applied by the Government of Eng. Socrates — more white elephants and more debt for future generations to pay. Speaking of future generations, for the benefit of the younger, there were things that could have begun to change in these 72 days, but they did not change, and they need to change, beginning in the next 72 days and then in all the following days. We must be able to tell the young people in this country that it is worth living and working in Portugal. We need young people in this country to believe that by studying, working and striving they will have access to opportunities to get up in life and that if some want to have an international experience that makes them grow, they will be able to return to a country where there will be opportunities, a country that will recognize its merit. It is urgent to explain to them that the social elevator, which has been damaged for so long, can be noticed, that it is not only those who know the right person or those who have a right party card who will have the opportunity to achieve what they want. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To think of these young people and all those who want to do something for themselves and their country, we have today presented our programme of economic and civic reform, a liberal and democratic PREC, this time. This is a document in which we present 100 measures, one for the next 72 days and one for all the following days, to get Portugal out of this stagnation cycle that has lasted too long. Among the dozens of measures we propose, I would leave you just a few examples to contrast with the arid ideas of the socialist government plans that we will discuss here tomorrow. Where socialists see a health user, linking more to the fact that the health provider is public than at the quality and speed at which the citizen is cared, we see people who deserve the best care in the shortest time and therefore propose the extension of the SIGIC (Integrated System of Registration Management for Surgery) and the SNS (Integrated System of Access Management in the National Health Service) to the providers of the private and social sector, to end the waiting lists in surgeries and specialist consultations. Where socialists see children who have to get stuck at the nearest school, often with few means, we see children who deserve access to the social elevator and, therefore, we propose the creation of the teaching check, so that each family has the right to use that value in a school, whether public or not. Where socialists see citizens who cannot be trusted, we see people who deserve our trust, so we propose the simplification of several administrative processes earlier, so that they can be monitored, effectively monitored, subsequently. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 72 days have passed since the announcement of the first case of COVID-19 in Portugal. The number of days that will pass until we can say that we overcome the crisis will depend on each one of us, on the courage that we have to make the right decisions at the right time, on the ability to show work and to risk together, on the freedom that we use to face the new social and economic circumstances and on a new path and, perhaps, to err, but certainly trying again. This is a moment that can define the future of a whole generation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u202	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u203	I shall conclude, Madam President. We can regret luck and look to the future with fear of the next crisis, or we can then fight the fatalism of this stagnation, free to take our own options, being responsible for them too. That future begins now and depends only on us, if we have the freedom to build it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u204	Mr President, you have three requests for clarification. For the first request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u205	Mr. President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, one of the effects of the new coronary virus on our political life was to make the liberals, from day to night, stop idolizing Margaret Thatcher to become venerate Che Guevara. one day they were against the social state, against the National Health Service and criticized the excess state and on the other they began to demand an intense intervention from the state because they stopped believing that the private initiative could save themselves or that the coronavirus could be fought without the National Health Service. We cannot stop being charged, but we cannot fail to welcome this conversion of the Liberal Initiative to the social state. But today it is proposed — I still did not understand whether by Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo or by Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo — that we discussed the country's recovery from the economic crisis. For the NAP, of course this recovery cannot be done by returning to the production and extractive model that has placed us in the climate crisis that we live in, it must be made by means of a new model that builds a green and climate-neutral economy, which accelerates the energy transition, which prioritizes investment in the sector of environmental goods and services, which introduces profound changes in the energy sector, mobility and the agri-food sector. All of this is not fulfilled as long as the government continues to grant loans to polluting companies or as long as it continues to grant tax benefits and other perverse subsidies to large polluters, such as aviation companies and EDP. But the Liberal Initiative has not been better in the proposals it has put forward to combat the crisis, because it has shown zero concerns about the fight against the climate crisis that we live and that the new coronavirus has not defeated, a clear thing, for example, in the proposal to grant exemptions to certain taxes to all companies, without requiring any respect for minimum standards of environmental and social sustainability. More: in this crisis, the Liberal Initiative has shown that it has no interest in combating certain established interests. This is clear when the NAP proposals that prevented the bank from profiting on the COVID-19 account and that the public money was used for the payment of bonuses to New Bank administrators and managers, but also the proposal that it wanted — it is clear — that the State of such financial support to all business managers and administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u206	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u207	This means that at a time when every cent is needed for the public record, at the will of the Liberal Initiative, we would have CEO (executive chief officer) of large companies receiving State subsidies. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to leave a question to the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u208	Very quickly, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u209	Mr President, I ask you when the Liberal Initiative will adopt environmental and social concerns in the context of the recovery of the economic crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u210	For a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u211	Madam President, I would like to congratulate Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo and his conversion to the importance of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u212	But what conversion?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u213	Liberals are in him while there is no crisis; when there is a crisis, the intervention of the State is necessary. What you have come here to say is that more and more support is needed, i.e. it is the typical liberal that is only liberal when it suits you. Madam President, another point I would also like to stress is the fact that the Liberal Initiative has come here to recognize that the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic has gone well, at the health level. It's important to come here and remind you. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member whether it was not the National Health Service, which is so critical, the basis of this answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u215	And what liberal countries or countries have national health services or private health services thus responded to the COVID-19 pandemic? Just look at the example of the United States to see the total error in fighting COVID-19. Then the honourable Member comes here to ask for more support. It is important to remember that only, for example, layoff support, management partners or other support sets cost more than EUR 2000 million per month. Isn't that State intervention? Is that not the state's intervention that criticizes? Is it not also the state's intervention of about EUR 5000 million already guaranteed in loans to companies? Is this not also the State's intervention which criticizes?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u216	Incoherent!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u217	Mr President, this is typically the inconsistencies of liberalism, but it is also acknowledged that, at last, Parliament has someone who defends liberalism, because we are used to those embarrassed liberals. The honourable Member takes the position as a liberal, and very well, only that it is the liberal typical that is only liberal until the state needs to intervene. When the crisis comes, there is no capitalism that saves the liberals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u218	For a request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u219	Madam President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo. In fact, the requests for clarification are well illustrated by what happens when we bring ideological prejudices intellectually sent to the pandemic. If it weren't tragic, I'd even find it fun to see some of you guys. Members said: "So now you want the state? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In other words, we have a public health crisis and the State decrees a small entrepreneur who has his coffee that cannot open it, who has to keep it closed, who cannot open doors, who cannot have customers, who must be closed at home and then when it is time to compensate for these measures that have been decreed, says: « So now you think you need the state? So now you can't do it for yourself? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened here was a pandemic and I think that using this as an ideological argument to discuss ways of development and economic development and is not intellectual bias, it is even a caricature policy. I think we all deserve a little more. Mr President, you said that tomorrow we would discuss the government's plan, but we will discuss a non-plan, because the government does not present a stability programme, nor reform, nor a recovery plan. It presents something to fulfill the timetable and which has absolutely nothing there! Many are waiting for Europe's response and the only certainty that some of us can have in relation to the European response is that it will take a long time. I therefore ask the honourable Member whether we should not start working on the economic recovery now, in something that we can all do and which Portugal can do without needing Europe for anything: simplifying, disbursing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u220	Welcome to the Simplex!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u221	Wouldn't it be better to be focused on this rather than having discussions that don't even reach the ideological category?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u222	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u223	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, even because they had a lot of fun and proved they didn't hear anything I said. When I say that it is a myth the idea that a liberal cannot defend State intervention in an emergency situation is the same as saying that a socialist cannot prevent the right to strike in an emergency situation, as you did and how you voted three times in this House. In an emergency situation, I think ideology should be not the second, not the third, but the last of the concerns. The first concern should be to turn to the people who need it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps they disagree, but this is our view of things. Then Mr André Silva says that we continue to defend the interests installed. Mr President, there should have been no parties in this House, which most often defended individuals against all powers, against all tyranny, whether of the State, large companies or monopolies, than the Liberal Initiative. It is not because we believe that banking or other activities should have economic freedom that this ceases to be true. The Liberal Initiative will always be next to the individual interests of the people. Mr Hugo Costa says that we are very critical of the SNS. You haven't heard well! We criticize this structure of SNS, because it excludes the participation of the private and the social sector in what could be a better service to people if freedom of choice was given. In time, another of the victims of this epidemic was our health plan, which, as expected, could not be presented in March.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u224	It was a big loss!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u225	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it is true that we should already be thinking about the economic recovery plan, the part that is in our hands, without waiting for Brussels for anything and nothing. Yes, simplification and deburocratization is something Portugal can do alone. More: who thinks that what comes there, from the point of view of economic challenges, is done without a huge agility, without an enormous capacity of initiative, without very many Portuguese people trying to do their best, for themselves and for their sakes, is very wrong and thinks that we went back to the old days, in pre-critical times. It will not be the same, we need a lot more capacity for initiative and this is done only by simplifying a lot of social and economic life in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u226	For a political declaration, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are at a particularly unique moment in our criminal history. Again, we left an innocent victim unprotected. Little Valentina died, 9 years old, unprotected by everyone, unprotected by this society, and died in the hands of those who had the first duty to protect. Revolt and indignation — the same struggle of always a people who cry out for justice and do not see it, as we only see and seek every step of public opinion in this country. But this case is not new. In 2004 Leonor Cipriano killed his daughter and gave her to pigs to be food— she's out here! In 2005 a deaf-mute boy was raped and murdered by his stepfather—he is already out here! In 2012 a mother set fire to a house with the two children inside. This, which could be a journalistic narrative, is the history of crime we have, which could continue unceasingly and always with the same end— « it is already out here! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We must prevent and resocialize, that is the great objective of the criminal law, but we must also protect the community and ensure that monsters, who have no other name, cannot or can only see from here many years to see the light of freedom, by our protection, that of our children and that of those we love. To listen to the Portuguese people is not to say « populism», « extreme right» or « base of newspaper comments», it is to hear it, feel it, feel what a whole people want for justice. The arrival will propose the restoration of life imprisonment in Portugal and will do so in what the best European tradition at this time does, i.e. with a review of 20 years, so that those who have resociated and changed can then again know freedom. What we cannot have is this court case that only Portugal has, accompanied by Norway. All other countries, one by one, particularly those who were pointed out as the best examples, fall. Spain fell, which after the brutal death of a teacher restored the life imprisonment in its territory — « fascists! , « extremists! "extreme-right!" , "populists! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Everyone like that for Europe! England fell, with the case of a serial pedophile who was sentenced to life imprisonment— « fascists! , « extremists! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Germany has fallen, and could continue ahead. I no longer speak of the Portuguese Communist Party, which, in cases of corruption, admits the death penalty and applauds her out there, but forgets what happens in here. We have to change Portuguese law. Therefore, the arrival will call this initiative « Valentina project», in honor of the one who lost his life in a barbaric act, because we will seek to restore justice to those who do not have it in Portugal. I did not want to end without deeply regretting the fact that this debate is still completely sent, when most Portuguese have already told us what they want. After all, as a famous British author asked, what is justice worth if it does not represent the people, if it does not act in the name of this people and closes itself in a closed circle of politically correct? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we spent the last week with insinuations of the worst species, that national socialism had returned to Portugal. Yesterday people with responsibilities, some of them in this Parliament, said that a sort of Adolf Hitler had embodied in this Parliament and now he was speaking freely. There are attempts to illegalize the arrival at the Constitutional Court and to launch on me and on the leaders of the party slanders of defamation, criminal proceedings, the best that authoritarian States have ever achieved. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u228	What about fake signatures?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u229	I trust the magistrates of our country very much. Very! I trust that we would never, in democracy, see the illegalization of a political party again. And I trust that those who lose every day in polls, who in the ballot box know they would lose, now want to win in court proceedings or attempts to make it unconstitutional for being racist, xenophobic or whatever you want! There is only one reason for us to go up to polls: the voice of the Portuguese people, who finally cry out for this justice. It is the voice of a people who want a different system and who no longer believe in this. That is why we reject not only the insinuations of connection to national socialism and the threats of judicial proceedings on me or on arriving, as we reject one of the greatest and most terrible persecutions that can be done in democracy. The Portuguese are very careful and well aware of what is happening and what will certainly happen in the future, because they know the terrible strength of the system, the system that they also want to defeat. We could say that the restoration of life imprisonment is the restoration of populism and that using the name of a child who died is even more populist. But all countries have imposed these measures in the heat of shocking cases — Spain, England, Germany, all of them of our tradition, some of them praised by the Portuguese Prime Minister in terms of justice and economic recovery. It is time to look at them and, since we look at other circumstances, it is time to end the farce that this system resocializes and sets, when it does not, that brings justice, when it does not bring, that resocializes and protects the community, when it does not. If we listened to the Portuguese, through these televisions outside, over the last few days, we would realize that probably there was no one who would say that our justice is in the right way. So it is up to us, Members of the Portuguese Nation, representatives of that same people, and to whom many here call pocket or tavern, to represent this Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u230	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u231	Otherwise, one day, the pocket and the tavern will be much bigger than us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u232	Mr President, two Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u233	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u234	You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u235	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing the dismay of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group — and I am sure that I understand the dismay of all Members of this House, as well as of all Portuguese and Portuguese — in the face of the tragic events that have led, with an unbearable precociousness and in circumstances, to what everything indicates, deeply shocking, the child Valentina. But, Mr Ventura, I want to tell you that farce is to express your dismay at the tragedy and use your rostrum time to do nothing but propagate your political ideas. I conclude that this has not been for you more than an opportunity to put on the megaphone what you really think. I think it is important to have two things in mind. The first is that, unfortunately, child abuse is a tremendous reality all over the world and that, compared to certain contexts, Portugal even has a quite positive situation, despite the numerous tragic situations, and will always be too much, even if it was only one. They'll always be too much! The second is that we must bear in mind — I believe that you do not have or do not have the sense of being able to make your speech — that, no matter how effective the systems are, there will always be situations that we will not be able to predict or come and which we will later suffer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u236	No doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u237	That's because systems are operated by human beings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u238	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u239	I shall conclude, Madam President, but I would just like to mention two more questions. First: Mr Deputies, Portugal has, in criminal matters, a heritage which you will not destroy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second : Mr, terrible, not to qualify it in any other way, because I am in an assembly representing all Portuguese, it was the abuse you made of this girl's photograph, using it to propagate her ideas. That's, yeah, it's a farce! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u240	To request clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, first of all, I would obviously like to regret what was in fact a tragic loss not only for the family, but also for all of us, because there is no tragedy greater than we all lose, as a collective, a child in the hands of violence. But, honourable Member, everything is not worth everything in politics. In politics we are not only incoherent, as we see here, populistly, using a tragedy to present an ideological agenda, when in practice we criticize the measures of other political forces. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that you have been criticising a proposal from the NAP which was intended to create an observatory for the protection of the rights of the child. This is an observatory precisely in order to prevent us in any way from being able to combat the one which is a very complex phenomenon, which, in fact, we have not been able to fight effectively, voting against it. Worse, he accused us of wanting to create « tachos », as if creating mechanisms that guarantee the rights of children should not be a priority for the country. More recently, Mr President, we heard that the NAP had extended its hand to the PS by abstaining from the vote on the State budget. I remind you that the NAP has been able to put in this State budget a fundamental measure for the protection of victims of domestic violence, in particular a special permit for them to leave their homes and not be unprotected from the point of view of work. There is a great difference, Mr President, among all of us we are deeply shocked at this loss, whether we are committed to finding solutions — or at least we should be — to combat violence, including child abuse, and to propagate measures and be completely inconsistent, as you have been voting or showing which side you want to be. This is what we cannot tolerate! There is no political use of the death of a child, sir! in this hour of regret, we must respect not only Valentina but all the victims of violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u242	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u243	I conclude now, Madam President. Mr President, I cannot, in fact, fail to tell you this, not just as a Member of Parliament, but personally as a citizen of this country: we cannot be populating on account of violence! This is not the way, nor should it be the way of this House. [[PAN and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u244	You have the floor to answer, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u245	Madam President, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, whether or not the arrival is going to destroy the property we have in criminal law, it is not up to you to decide, but to the Portuguese people. I realize that, as it is so closed on the same socialist idea as ever, you want to send in elections, in the country and in the state, but perhaps one day you have a surprise, sooner than you expect. [[Protests of PS Members.]] It is not populism, Mrs. Member, it is wanting to do justice when the Portuguese out there know that there is no justice. But we are already used to this in this House, as well as on the part of Mrs Deputy: when there is a serious crime and someone has come to propose tougher measures, they say that it is populist, extremist, terrible, even though thousands of Portuguese outside say that we have to do it. The honourable Member is not interested in this, he should think that the Portuguese are not good in the head and that it is better to follow the Socialist Party's line.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u246	Abutre!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u247	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, let me tell you this: it is not with a human rights observatory that solves situations like this, it is not with an observatory to spend more money on the taxes of the Portuguese that will solve the situation of hundreds or thousands of children, older or minors, victims of terrible acts of violence. It's with the criminal law! [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] Madam Member, I would like to make this very clear, so that there is no doubt: if you say one day that André Ventura and the Arrival have put in the trash can of history the heritage of criminal law, in this matter of combating corruption and pedophilia, I will be very happy. Therefore, it does not affect me at least when it says that we are reaching the Portuguese criminal heritage. I don't care! For me, what matters and what's worth is getting to the Portuguese and saying, "Let's also look at Europe, for the best they do there." And the honourable Member says: "No, out there is all a terrible extremism! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u248	What about the photograph? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u249	The photograph, Mrs. Deputy? I'll tell him! It's for that image of Valentina,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u250	Abutre!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u251	... like that of many other Valentinas in this country, never leave our memory, so that you will never leave these parliamentary groups and that the people outside, who cry for justice, may have it, regardless of whether you like it or not to see pictures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u252	Abutre! Abutre!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u253	Don't you like it? Turn it off! It hurts less!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u254	It's shocking!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u255	We therefore conclude the discussion of this item on our agenda. We move on to the third point, which is from the assessment of Petition No 365 / XIII / 2. a ( National Association of Online Players ) — Review of the law of the online game, in particular of the taxation of sports bets to the quota. There are no entries from the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to the next point. If you don't sign up, it's because you're not interested in discussing the initiative. [[Pause.]] Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition is 2017 and calls for the taxation of sports bets to stop being made by turnover and to be for profits, still requesting the regulation of cross bets. The petitioners point out that the business is unattractive to betting and that, as such, illegal gambling is huge. Since 2017, the petition ends up being damaged by time. At the meeting sponsored by Mr Rapporteur, Hugo Pires, in December 2017, petitioners realized that almost 70 % of betting agents do so illegally. In recent studies almost 50 % are already the betting agents who do so in the regulated market, a number that is still very worrying, but which, contrary to the forecasts made in 2017, has improved. The same was true of the number of licensed companies from two in 2017 to 10 currently. I remember that before 2015 the whole betting market was illegal. The tax model for turnover is not exclusive from Portugal, there are other countries that do so. And the changes in the 2020 State budget have somehow responded to the concerns of the petitioners. As for cross-posts provided for in the legislation in 2015, these were incipient in the international landscape and are not yet allowed in many countries, but it is clearly a matter to be monitored and regulated in the future. at the time of the preparation of the online game law, particularly of sports betting on quota, the legislator's great concern was regular to put an end to the illegal game, which not only did not promote the responsible game as it was not taxed at all. With regard to sports, the great concern was that the rush of taxation would revert to sport, and this is a very important recipe for sports federations today. Despite these progress, it is notorious that much needs to be done. Of course, there is a need for a strong fight against illegal gambling and, here, the State is responsible for providing the Game Regulation and Inspection Service ( SRIJ) with the means necessary for this, as well as for increasing coordination with the judicial system in order to improve the effectiveness of the response and this at both national and international levels. Let me remind you that Portugal was one of the first countries to subscribe to the Council of Europe Convention on the Handling of Sports Competitions in 2014, and in this regard we must all be firm and very focused on winning this fight. It is also necessary to work in the defence and protection of citizens most vulnerable to the dependence of the game, depending on which is to be accompanied by SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ), which needs to be strengthened the means and resources for this purpose. Everything becomes more difficult if you want the fight against illegal game or the fight against gambling dependence are not priorities for government action. And this one, Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really the way that needs to be valued. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u257	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cristina de Jesus of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we analyse Petition No 365 / XIII / 2. the, presented by the National Association of Online Posters to the Assembly of the Republic, on the revision of the law of the online game, in particular the taxation of sports bets to the quota. The online game is today a reality in exponential growth. It is based on computer platforms, with very different features of the traditional game, such as Euromillions, scrapers or lottery. It is essential to emphasize that the activity of online gambling has very different characteristics of other economic activities and that its social impact on consumer protection as well as the prevention of fraud and money laundering needs to be guarded. The regulation of online game in Portugal is based on the balance between market competitiveness, in order to reduce the illegal exploitation and practice of online game, and public interest, such as the protection of minors, vulnerable and risk groups or the prevention of addictive behaviors of players. The online game market in Portugal currently has 13 licensed operators, of which 10 offer sports bets to the quota. There are several applications for licences in progress, which well demonstrates the interest in the Portuguese market. In the last State budget, changes were made in the taxation of sports bets to the quota. The progressiveity of the special tax of the online game, which had a variable rate between 8 % and 16 %, was eliminated, with a single rate of 8 % on the amount of bets made. The elimination of tax progressiveity was one of the claims of the entities operating in this sector. The petitioners want a legislative amendment at tax level, suggesting a change in the taxation of sports bets to quota, so that it will affect the operator's gross revenue rather than the volume of bets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u259	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u260	This means that the rate of 8 % would be applied to the net value of the bets after payment of the premiums. This form of taxation would call into question the fundamental principles, both fiscal and extra-fiscal, which were at the basis of the regulation of the online game: the control of the game volume, the fight against fraud and tax evasion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u261	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u262	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, with this, the control of the volume of play, the fight against fraud and tax evasion, the protection of players and the fight against the addiction of bets and results could be called into question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u263	Mrs. Member, there was an error in timing. I thought we were still in the clarifications, so in this case we still have some more time for your intervention. I'm sorry. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u264	It's all right, Madam President. I'm done, then. The exploitation of cross-posts in Portugal was also defended by petitioners. It is dependent on the adoption of a regulation laying down the requirements of the technical game system. The Portuguese Government is awaiting the decision of the European Commission on two complaints by European online gambling associations. In conclusion, I wanted to say that online gambling is a cross-sectional activity to society as a whole. Its specificities require more and more regulation and control, because only in this way can we ensure the protection of the most vulnerable, of minors and ultimately of the consumer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u265	Once again I apologize for having interrupted her before time, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u266	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: I wanted to begin by complimenting the petitioners. The request is intended to review the taxation of sports bets on quota, so that it will affect the gross revenue of operators and not the volume of bets. The current online game tax regime is based on the special online game tax, as defined by Decree-Law No 66 / 2015, however revised, which falls on the exploiting entities. It should be said that income directly arising from the activities subject to this tax is not subject to IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) or the seal tax. The arguments of the petitioners deserve us several observations. One of the arguments is that this amendment would bring to the regulated market the vast majority of online betting agents, sites and betting houses, which is not achieved because the incentive to play on the illegal market is greater because of the premiums. We're not going that way. Incentives to the parallel market will always exist, quotas will always be more attractive when they are not taxed and it will not be a change to how the game is taxed that will solve the matter. What is needed is to invest in the means of supervision, combating sport fraud and also combating additive behaviour, with regard to online betting. The same can be said about the quantity of products that the law allows. As long as the number of games and types of betting allowed is extended, new, more addictive games will always arise, bypassing the law. It would also be important to understand whether the petitioners' proposal would lead to an increase or a reduction in tax revenue and that would be an important basis to see whether companies would agree to revise the quotas and be more attractive for betting players to come to the so-called regulated market. from our perspective, even if equity can be discussed in the tax structure, the way must not be to smooth the taxes on online game, which should never have been legalized, with the social consequences it has, particularly with youth. At the particular moment we live, we are concerned about the greater use of the online game, so we deliver, in this House, a bill to limit advertising times to games and bets for only after 22 hours and 30 minutes. We call for this proposal of the CFP to be approved, so that the expansion of the online game does not create any more negative social consequences, as has been signalled throughout several reports by SICAD. With regard to the protection of petitioners, the CFP does not follow the proposals referred to in the petition, without at least presenting its assumptions further. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u267	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u268	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have here a petition, submitted by the National Association of Online Posters, which basically brings three claims, namely that there may be more operators on the market, more products, which means more games, and that there is less tax burden, less tax to, with this, have a more competitive price and rise the values of their prizes. These are the claims of this petition. However, it is important to remember a little what is the history of the online game in Portugal, of which we have the first records precisely in 2002. Between 2002 and 2015, that is, for 13 years, there was no regulation and we were before a game that we could even understand as being illegal. What do we have today? We have 13 operators in the market and we have anything like 450 000 betting players that are registered, this without counting those players of the Holy House of Mercy. What does regulation allow? The regulation allowed the protection of children and those who are most vulnerable, prevented fraud and money laundering and also brought security to the sector. This same 2015 law provided that, from two to two years, the law could be reviewed and the right is that the law was not revised in 2017, nor in 2019. However, there is a problem today in 2020 — as there was also in 2019, and from there back — which has to do with the illegal market, with the illegal game. According to a study that was promoted by the Portuguese Online Gambling Association ( APAJO ), in 2019, about 56% of the online game in Portugal was illegal. So I would say that it is strangely that we heard the PCP claim that this game should not be regulated, that is, all the online game that exists in Portugal should be illegal. What does this illegal game bring? It distorts competition itself, protects betting, protects children and the most vulnerable people, does not prevent fraud or money laundering and translates into less revenue for the State itself. This means the state is failing. This means that the regulator of this sector is also failing, when more than 50% of the online game is illegal. It is possible to extrapolate and say that there are about 450 000 betting players playing such an illegal game. It is therefore urgent — we say — that Parliament itself and the government can review the law in order to provide more powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u269	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u270	I'm done now, Madam President. As I said, it is urgent for Parliament and the Government to review the law, to empower the regulator itself more, also providing it with the means necessary to combat this same illegal game. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u271	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u272	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to greet more than 4000 petitioners. We speak of a petition — as has already been said — which entered this Parliament in 2017 and which, despite the date, is addressed to the Assembly of the Republic with a theme that is relevant for its current status, since the online gaming sector has only recently been regulated in Portugal. It has already been mentioned here that the first law of the online game arose in 2015, dealing at a time when, despite the difficulties, some legislation was implemented in a sector which, by its nature, is difficult to supervise and which was completely voted on to illegality, so it was important. It would also be important from that point on to make the necessary revisions to that legislation. Since then, some subjects have been advanced, particularly in reducing the percentage of illegal gambling, but nevertheless in 2019 it still represented around 56 % of the total of the game, which means that there is still a large number of operations to be carried out in the wake of any legal or fiscal obligations. The figures are high, which should lead to a reflection by the legislator in order to continue a supervisory and supervisory work on this sector. There are several questions related to the online game. We could talk about what has already been approved in the last State budget by 2020 and which has brought some important changes, but we believe that the reflection should be continued in the Assembly of the Republic and by the legislator itself. This is because there are several questions on the table that have also been more recently accompanied by them. This is the case, for example, with questions related to additive behaviour and how, responsibly, to respond to this matter. We also have the question of sports betting, which have specifics within the online game itself. We still have the question of how to monitor illegal platforms, because, clearly, the failure to monitor is one of the biggest problems associated with this sector, and it is a quite large failure not really to get the illegal game done. When we look at some legislation in other countries, we realize that the percentage of illegal gambling in countries with more or less similar laws to ours is quite inferior, so we have to move forward on the issue of supervision and also on the issue of advertising. As far as advertising is concerned, some changes have occurred, even during the pandemic period, but this is in fact more related to additive behaviors and also gives an idea of what is desired for the online gambling sector. We therefore believe that this Parliament should keep its attention on this issue and that is what we would also like to say to the petitioners. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u273	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a short speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u274	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I just wanted to explain that our position is quite clear. Downloading taxes for these online games will not solve the problem, because an illegal game, without paying any tax, will always be more competitive than a game that pays tax. Therefore, from this point of view, what is needed, in fact, is to be monitored against illegal gambling. The PCP does not follow the petitioners' claims. If the CDS follows, it should have submitted a legislative initiative and not done so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u275	I didn't say we were defending! He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u276	We move on to the fourth point of our order of business, which deals with the assessment of Petition No 623 / XIII / 4. a (Armenio Francisco Gonçalves Maximino et al.) — They call for measures to be taken against the relocation of registration services on the Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, paragraphs 7 to 11, Lisbon. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting and thanking all those who, in the defence of their rights through the right of petition, have signed it. The Ministry of Justice has decided to relocate part of the services of the Institute of Registers and the Notary(IRN) located in the building of the Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, in Lisbon, to the Store of the Citizen of the Market 31 January, in the area of Saldanha. The relocation of these services was based on a logic of rationalization of the provision of public service, allowing also to decompress the service in the Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, thus providing better conditions to those who go there, as well as those who work there. Understanding the reasons of the petitioners, I stress that, between the two spaces, only 50 m, being therefore both locations in a central area of the city, well served by public transport. I also add that the same was done, of course, with the agreement of all employees. It is the obligation of the State to provide an appropriate service to the needs and interests of citizens. It is the obligation of the State to promote collective well-being and ensure good living conditions for all. To this end, the State needs to find a balance between three factors: the needs of people, the responses of services and the resources of the Public Administration. That is why, aware of the need not only to continue, where necessary, to relocate service fronts, as well as to strengthen the number of human resources in their services, the State is finalizing the processing of an admission contest of technical assistants, which will enable the strengthening of the service fronts of the IRN services, especially the service counters of the citizen card, and will also open a contest for the completion of more than 700 vacant places of conservator and record officer. It is an obligation of the innovate State: to innovate in public management and public policies; to innovate in participatory processes; to innovate in simplification; to innovate in dematerialization, openness, accessibility and inclusion. This is what this government has done in recent years, in particular with the opening of numerous citizen stores, which have made it easier, and much easier, the relationship between citizens, businesses and the State, and which have brought a new model of integrated service, allowing time to earn and reduce costs; with the operation of 630 citizen spaces, which have made about 200 public services available and have already carried out some 600 million services; with the opening of Business Spaces ; with the creation of a public service portal, the ePortugal, which has already had eight million accesses; with the creation of a Citizen Map, which provides all useful information on the service sites to the public and which allows you to obtain online passwords for all available services, in any of the citizen's shops. All of this represents a gain for all, but the evolution of society has pushed us into new ways of interacting with public services. Today, and for a large number of services, there is no need for face-to-face travel. We can move virtually. We live in a new time because of the technological possibilities and the horizon of answers that these possibilities offer us. The meaning is unique: to improve the quality of life of citizens, to enhance the possibility that, at a distance of one click, we can access all services. The methodology always focuses on people. The State and the Public Administration, in case they do not hold any public value, if that value is not a value for those who serve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u278	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u279	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Allow me to start by greeting the ladies and gentlemen, exalting this initiative. It is always essential that we value participatory democracy, particularly because, in this way, we bring to the debate in this House matters that relate to relevant and concrete issues, which affect and concern society and citizens. It is never too much to emphasise that the more participatory the citizens are, the richer our democracy is. This petition, currently under discussion, appeals for measures against the relocation of registration services at Fontes Pereira de Melo Avenue, Lisbon. While before, a citizen could deal with any act of registration in a single place, in continuous action, he cannot now. Now, the citizen has to go to a place to treat an act—for example, he will make a marriage or a divorce there—but if he needs a new citizenship card—because, because of marriage or divorce, he has changed his name—he will have to go to another place. Now, if this is an burden on a common citizen, it is an added burden on citizens with reduced mobility. Indeed, the relocation of services that work well in an integrated way is not understood. Moreover, it is once again found that, despite what is said here, the registration and notarial sector has been greatly forgotten by the government. It has been greatly underestimated by the government. If there's an area that needs a reformist impulse, this is it. But this is not something you get with a simple relocation of services and employees, moving from one side to another. What is needed is the hiring of more employees, what is needed is the opening up of new services. in this sense, already at the end of the previous Parliament, a draft resolution of the PSD was approved by this House to recommend to the Government, precisely the adoption of urgent registration and notarial measures. I am referring to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 39 / 2019. As incredible as it may seem, virtually none of the urgent measures mentioned above have been implemented. We are talking about several conservatories that have not yet a conservator, as is the case with Melgaço. We are talking about the personal data of the citizens, who continue to be unprotected, now even worse in the known « service islands ». We're talking about organic law, which hasn't been reviewed yet. We're talking about obsolete computers, of frequent failures in the system. We are talking about the absence of occupational medicine, among other urgent measures. There was still a slight hope: that, at least in the National Reform Programme, the Government would have neither a word on these areas which, as it happens, require urgent intervention. But nothing, not a word. In fact, this attitude of the government is not understood because, as it happens, we are talking about matters that affect, concern and interest the citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u280	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u281	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would naturally like to congratulate the petitioners and say that I was the rapporteur of this petition in 1. the Commission, and I would also like to speak in that capacity. What do we have in front of us? Oh, my God! We have, in front of us, a service that worked well — that works well! — at an integrated location of several valences: response to citizens' cards, passports, conservatory of civil registration, conservatory of commercial registration, SIR (Integrated Registration Solutions), balcony Casa Pronta... Finally, a set of valences that are in a certain space and, even more, in a place of easy access. Suddenly, the Government decides to leave this service in three dimensions: one remains in that place, another goes to Market 31 January and the third goes to the Park of Nations, the pretext of doing a modern thing, with a modern language, which is to separate, "in good Portuguese", the back office of the front office, or, in the language which Mrs. Rita Madeira recently used, to make the « rationalization of fronts of service». With so much modernity, indeed, the government innovated, but innovated in the worst way, innovated badly, wrongly. Fragmentation is wrong, because it is harmful to people and it is harmful to service. In fact, the services continue to debate themselves with deep questions, which are ancient. Therefore, the modernity of this language does not meet, in particular, as has already been pointed out, the lack of personnel, obsolete equipment, the lack of physical conditions of privacy in the care. All this is the day-to-day service of these services, and to that, the government says nothing. It makes a relocation and, finally, uses the language of the back office and front office and the thing is solved. In fact, I believe that this so-called modernity of managerial language of measures such as this distorts the government's inability to respond to the real needs of public services such as this: more personal, better conditions of service, more respect for users. Are those old questions? Oh, my God! Yes, they are! Don't they have modern language? Oh, my God! Yeah, no! But these are the essential challenges that must be met. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u282	I apologize, but before I give the floor, I will draw the attention of Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, who is without mask. He forgot to put it back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u283	I'm sorry, Madam President. In fact, I forgot to put it back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u284	Thank you very much. Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u285	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the CFP, to greet the subscribers of this petition, which was the initiative of the Trade Union of Registrars and the Notary. In fact, what we're talking about is not just a relocation, because it might seem a little dissipating we're discussing a problem of passing a distribution 50 m to the side. In fact, the problem is much more than that. The existence, in particular, of a new space in the 31st January market, which is very close to this division that we are talking about, was an opportunity, with more space, to better resolve the accessibility of citizens to public services. But, indeed, that is not what happened. What happened was that there were no more employees for the same service, obviously some of the employees were also relocated. Therefore, it has not improved the care of citizens and this is a problem. In fact, there has been no significant change in the number of staff in the registries and notarial services and this has had very serious consequences in the care of citizens at various levels. It is not, in fact, acceptable that at the beginning of the third decade of the 21st century more than one working day should be lost to renew the citizenship card. It doesn't make any sense at all, but that's what happens. It is obvious that these services need more personnel! That's indisputable. And the government has done what it has done in recent years to try to cover up this situation with various stratagems. One was the opening of Citizen Spaces by the municipal chambers. What's going on? Oh, my God! The citizen goes there, wants to deal with something. What do they tell you? Oh, my God! They say, "Oh, no, not here. Here we're dealing with other matters, but not that one. You have to go to the City Shop». Go to the Citizen's Shop, go to a counter to deal with a matter and tell him: "No, we don't have the capacity here either. You really have to go to the distribution'. Then the person goes to the distribution and loses there a whole day. This is unacceptable! But this, in fact, is only decisive if there are more human resources in these services, which can respond to the basic problems of citizens. These measures do not, in fact, cover the seriousness of this situation. On the other hand, today we receive, precisely from the subscribers of this petition, a call for attention to the poor security conditions with which these services are being reopened, within the framework of the pandemic we are living and, of course, taking into account the need to reopen the services. We call here very seriously for these problems to be resolved in the name of both the workers in the registers and the users who are going to have to use these services, because this is indeed a very serious matter. The services must be reopening, but obviously they must be reopening in security conditions and this must be properly guarded. Therefore, the appeal that we leave, on the question of the relocation of the Melo Fountains Pereira Avenue facilities, is for registration and notarial services and public services in general, in this country, to be equipped with the necessary personnel, so that citizens can be provided a service compatible with the third decade of the 21st century, which we are starting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u286	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u287	Mrs. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the attention of the President, but it was a distraction. I begin by congratulating the petitioner on this petition, which was here, in the Assembly of the Republic, about a year ago, and which has to do with a decision by the Ministry of Justice, in relation to some of the conservatory services, at the level of the citizen's card, passport, birth registration, death registration, Av. Sources Pereira de Melo for the Saldanha. A year later, we can make an assessment which is what we have heard a little bit in this debate. In other words, there is a division of services and this poses problems at the level of the organic and functioning of the internal service itself and has a direct effect on the citizen. And here we missed a great opportunity. It is that the opportunity of this same transfer should have served precisely to reinforce what was the lines of care with new workers, with more workers. But when we look at, for example, the last published balance sheet of the IRN, the 2018 social balance sheet, what does it tell us? There is a deficit of 199 Conservatives, there is a deficit of 1154 officers and there is also a deficit of 139 technical assistants. And, therefore, this was the great opportunity, precisely, to strengthen this public service. A few days ago, we learned, through news, that more than 700 000 citizens had expired. This means that we need services, we need answers. And these officials who are there, who, of course, are trying to give their best, cannot give the citizens the right answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u288	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u289	Madam President: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and say that we are before one of the groups that has been most damaged in the successive stages of State reformulation, not only in which it led to the reduction of the number of employees and which did not allow new contracts, making this type of services one of the most difficult tasks — as even the Minister of Justice has acknowledged. On the other hand—why don't you say so too? — the relocation, which has been assessed, has in fact generated a very negative impact, not only on the lives of citizens, who, as Mr António Filipe said, are involved in a huge bureaucracy. It is enough to see that in the city of Lisbon there is no way to deal with one or two things in the same space and we have to go through different places in the city, most of the time, not all. In fact, often these workers are the ones who suffer the most from this. Therefore, we must ensure that, without falling into the centralisation effort, we can achieve proper decentralization so that these services are effectively provided in a proximity logic. In fact, this is what the Minister of Justice guaranteed in 2017, i.e. that she would make this decentralization in a proximity logic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u290	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u291	I shall conclude, Madam President. Therefore, what is missing in order to guarantee these workers the minimum of dignity, in addition to the question of careers, is to allow this decentralization, but with means, with competences and with proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u292	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u293	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 5000 petitioners who have brought us this petition with concern, in relation to an intention expressed since 2017, to relocate the services that are currently concentrated in the Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo building, among them the most important space of records, which allows, in accordance with the concept itself—and here the modeling issue which has been mentioned recently, and well, by the CFP, is indeed relevant—there is a concentration in a single physical place of service of all valences, in a cross-sectional and integrated way, at a single point of physical access, this point which has precisely a particular accessibility and which I will also mention later. The services provided here have different valences, such as the Civil Registry Conservatory, the Commercial Registry Conservatory, the SIR itself, the Balcão Casa Pronta, the Balcão Heranzas e Divorcio con Partilha (BHDP), the citizenship card and the electronic passport. In this way, citizens, individually or from companies, are prevented from travelling to different places, and in fact they can access various services in one place. What the petitioners are asking us — and well! — that this dismemberment is avoided and not implemented, warning some points, which I would like to point out: from now on, for services not being separated, it is possible to access, at a single point of service, all these registrar valences. With good reason, they come to warn the question of the back office of the service to the public to be separated from the front office, which may call into question not only personalised, but also more efficient, from the technical point of view. This is because the back office often contains technicians who have specialized knowledge and therefore this solution questions the necessary and desirable integration, for greater speed and efficiency in service, back office and front office. What we can actually verify is that in many places of service to the public, such as the House Ready, finances or social security, those who are caring have the ability to stand up and ask for support from their peers or even those responsible, to ensure better care for the citizen. On the other hand, if this building is quite central and it is also served by buses and metro stations, at least three, in the vicinity, being moving to a place that does not have these accesses guaranteed, it is in fact to be here confining some citizens who do not have the same mobility capacity. The NAP therefore obviously accompanies this concern of the petitioners either as regards the basis of care in the services, or also for the intention of relocation. This is because it seems to us, in fact, that it is to be moving... and we usually use this giraffe in other areas of our life: on a winning team, don't move. And therefore, despite the weaknesses that services may have, either at the level of lack of staff, either at the level of appreciation of professionals, if there is a model solution that has, in fact, integrated, these answers, it is not understood that there is this change. A short time ago, Mrs Rita Madeira of the Socialist Party spoke on the question of public service, of favoring today's digital transition. Mrs. Member, there are thousands of citizens in our country who do not have access to computer equipment, nor do they have digital literacy...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u294	To conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u295	I conclude now, Madam President. As I was saying, these citizens have no digital literature to be able to access online platforms and we cannot forget these citizens, who must obviously be considered as the other second-line citizens and not be able to access all these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u296	We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of Petition No 597 / XIII / 4. a ( Amélia Luciana Brunnini de Sousa Uva Passo et al.) — They request that the cabin crew profession be qualified as a rapid wear, along with Resolution Projects Nos 268 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Classification of cabin crew as a rapid wear occupation and 251 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By regulating cabin crew activity with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity and the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work and with, in general, Bill No 234 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the working group for the legal regulation of the rapid wear professions and the creation of the respective table. Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u297	Mr President, if I may, I believe that the authors of the initiatives have priority in their initial intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u298	Exactly, Mrs. Deputy. That's it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u299	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u300	Mrs Mariana Silva, you have the floor for an intervention by the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u301	Thank you, Madam President. I'm sorry I didn't sign up, I thought it would be defined that the ENP would speak. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Greens, the more than 13 000 citizens who have signed the petition requesting that the profession of cabin crew be qualified as a rapid wear. The rapid wear professions are associated with disadvantaged working conditions and an accumulation of fatigue and stress of the professionals, resulting from the exercise of the activity. Cabin crews, operating on board aircraft, are subject to situations that accelerate and accumulate fatigue and wear, already proven by several technical reports. The most obvious and attested situations by medical experts are related to the fact that, like aircraft pilots, they operate on a daily basis at great altitude, with pressure variations, which affect the ear, nose and intestines. In the takeoff and landing phases, pressure variation becomes intense. The artificial environment in which they operate is low temperature and low humidity There are other risk factors derived, for example, from vibration, turbulence, engine noise levels, among others, which cause muscle and bone injuries, sleep disturbances, and problems of blood pressure. Irregular schedules and the so-called jet-lag affect sleep rhythms and necessary rest, causing cardiac rhythms to be desynchronized. Also the higher density of flights, the higher workload, the lower recovery time generate quite exhausting psychological loads, as well as the accumulation of stress, resulting, even, of functions that cabin crews have to perform within a constant guarantee of security, surveillance and management of emergency situations. In view of all these circumstances, a profession which has very peculiar characteristics, of sharp accelerated wear of professionals exercising it, the ENP considers that this status of rapid wear to cabin crews should be recognised, as is already recognised for pilots and air controllers, in order to safeguard an early reform regime which compensates for these workers for the exercise of a profession with the characteristics referred to, but which is essential for current companies. The Greens consider it to be a measure that guarantees justice for these professionals, but we also believe that this is a more comprehensive discussion, so that other professions can also enjoy this status. However, the most important thing is to open the discussion for the reduction of working hours, which reduces the age of the reform, to ensure working conditions, to value the work and the workers with the improvement of wages, which ends again with precariousness, because the path is that of the rights and not that of the degradation of the situation of each one. In this way they attack the constraints, not only in health, but in productivity and in the family's follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u302	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u303	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : First of all, the Left Block wants to greet the petitioners and the petitioners, especially those who are here today, who have brought us an extremely important issue to debate and which has to do with rapid wear-and-strike professions. The Left Block has long been warning for the growing number of professions and workers who, for various reasons, have begun fighting and launched alerts for the conditions under which they work in Portugal. And it is not by chance that more and more professions, of different sectors of activity, have requested, through petitions or other forms, the recognition of their profession as being of rapid wear. Work rhythms have accelerated, working hours are increasingly longer, working conditions are worsened and extreme conditions of certain professions are not taken into account. In the case of cabin crew members, it is necessary to recognise the adverse conditions and, in some situations, extremes in which these people have to work, being exposed to risks and very high requirements in carrying out their tasks. Cabin crew members — commissioners, ship assistants, cabin heads and cabin supervisors — carry out their activities on board aircraft where they are exposed to professional risks and to factors of penalizing wear, identical to those we find in various professions already consecrated today with the status of a rapid wear-out profession. It is recognized that it is an activity marked by disruptive hours, sleep disorder, exposure to radiation and contamination of the cabin air through organophosphates. It results in an artificial atmosphere, with reduced percentages of oxygen, with air flight microvibrations, sudden climate variations, rapid and frequent changes in time zones and frequent changes in circadian rhythm. We can verify that we are not talking about normal working conditions. In addition, high levels of mental and emotional demands are required in this profession. There is therefore a burden that poses risks to the health of cabin crew workers and workers, which is quite clear from our point of view. We have, necessarily, left a word to hundreds of civil aviation workers who have already lost their jobs at this time of crisis for having more precarious contracts, which also indicates precariousness in all sectors of Portuguese activity, even those in which the requirement is higher and in which the risks of health and safety are also high. For this reason, the proposal presented by the Left Block here is of justice. That's what we're talking about here. As the government is empowered to regulate the list of rapidly worn-out professions, we believe that this opportunity cannot be lost and that the recommendation should be adopted as soon as possible on behalf of all cabin crew members. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u304	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u305	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 13 000 petitioners of this petition on cab staff and on the issue of rapid wear, which, from our point of view, deserves, as we have already said in previous discussions, an analysis that makes the existing exceptional arrangements compatible with those which are the legitimate ambitions of many other professions to have their situation enshrined as a rapidly worn-out profession. However, we must create legislation which does not uniformize the scheme, because, of course, even if it is a profession of rapid wear, there are characteristics that distinguish each of these professions and the regime cannot be the same for all who have this status, but it must serve as a framework, particularly in access to the status. We therefore believe that there should be a regime which, not being a one-time and arbitrary decision for each profession, has the same set of rules for the analysis and possible application of the statute. For this reason, the CDS initiative proposes the creation of a multidisciplinary working group in which government areas that have direct guardianship over these areas are involved, so that this legislation can be produced within a relatively long period of time. This is not an opposition to this claim by cabin crew members, which, of course, we recognize, as has already been said, either that the schedules are very different, with implications in sleep due to time zones and displacements, either by pressure inside the aircraft, by the matter of take-offs and landings, etc. Finally, there are a number of factors that contribute to the exceptionality of this profession, but, as we know, there are others, and some have already passed through this Assembly. Only to list some, I remember the call center workers, the workers of the criminal police bodies, the heavy drivers, the maintenance and assembly workers of air carriers and others, who, of course, must also have the same attention on the part of this Parliament. from our point of view, this can only be done with a legal regime that applies to all of these situations, allowing them to be exempted, so we should create this working group so that this is possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u306	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u307	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD begins by welcoming all citizens who subscribe to this petition, which aims to establish the status of a rapid wear-out profession for cabin crew members. This petition also seeks to consider for cabin crew members access to retirement age at the age of 59 and although, in the end, 35 years of service in this profession, they can also access reform without penalty. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament has consulted the member of the Government of this area on this matter and it too — it is understood by the office we have received — that it has made some reservations as to the creation of more special regimes in access to reform. The PSD also presents its reservations, because we doubt much about the health of social security, as has come to the public in recent days. In addition, we asked the Minister in the COVID-19 period a few days ago about the effect of the breakdown of the stock exchange in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund at this time of the COVID, but the PSD did not get an answer on the accounts in this Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. What we know is that before the COVID era, there were about EUR 20 billion available to guarantee two years of pension payments to Portuguese, but today we do not know what the value or the Portuguese know about what they count on in terms of social security. Finally, apart from these financial issues, of course we recognize that there are professions that cause faster wear on the health of workers, such as cabin crew members. We believe, yes, that this profession has an exhausting and rapid effect on the health of workers. As for the two initiatives of the Green Party and the Left Block, we will not follow these recommendations to the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u308	Great news!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u309	...in the fruit of everything that has been said in my exhibition, let us, yes, follow the CDS initiative, but making some demands, as is natural. There is a lot of work to be done in the field of expertise and let me, for example, present one of the reasons why I say it: on the elements that should be included in the working group on this study of the professions of rapid wear, he does not speak to the social partners, he does not speak to the representatives of the employers or the representatives of the workers. In fact, we are talking about workers and work and the PSD greatly appreciates the healthy dialogue and negotiation between the parties. The CDS speaks of an element of the Economic and Social Council, but we do not see a balance here, we do not know whether workers, if bosses, and we want both, yes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u310	Maybe!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u311	There are other matters that need to be refined and, of course, if the CDS has this opening, then in the overall final vote, if the initiative is approved, they can come to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u312	You can count, but it's not now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u313	Cabin crews can also count on us in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u314	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u315	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to greet the more than 13 000 petitioners, the National Union of Civil Aviation Flight Personnel, who has stimulated this petition, which here brings a broad set of concerns about the rhythms and working conditions of cabin crew members and the professional risks arising there, also indicating the size of work accidents and occupational diseases. In this respect, it is important to remember the deepening of the working conditions of the workers in this sector, the increase in the levels of exploitation to which these workers are subject, for example, with the intensification of flight hours and the lack of guarantee of the necessary rest, and today there is less rest time for these workers. This reality is also not disconnected from the deregulation of the sector itself, from unfair and unbridled competition, from the choices of national governments and the European Union in favour of the business model of some companies, including the so-called low cost, which always end up in blackmail processes against countries, requiring support from them not to close the operation and putting themselves, through these public support, in a position to compete against national companies, these low cost companies, which have the mark of redundancies, low wages, pressure and blackmail on workers and large workers' rights. I recall here the behaviour of one of these companies, Ryanair, in April 2018, in a historic struggle of Portuguese cabin crew members, who responded to these workers with threats, blackmail, repression, harassment about workers who were defending their rights and who were demanding that this company comply with national legislation and the Constitution of the Republic. The current reality of this sector, which, in fact, in the current context was the most fired or placed workers in layoff, has profound implications and consequences in the working conditions of these workers, including in health, hygiene and safety at work. It is undeniable that today, the working conditions of cabin crew members are harder, with implications for the health of these workers, a reality identified in the petition and also at the hearing of petitioners. The CFP understands that the desires and demands put forward by these workers, by cabin crews, must be thought about, until, in particular, we talk about the safety and quality of service for air passengers, since we are talking about crew members who are responsible for the safety and care of their lives on board. There is also another set of demands that have arrived at the Assembly of the Republic that go in the same direction and that have to merit attention, reflection and careful and thorough discussion. The discussion of these matters must be conducted in a cross-cutting and comprehensive manner, including the approach to working conditions and rhythms, which have intensified, as well as the functions and the exercise of professions, with the necessary opening for an in-depth debate. The CFP will be here to make this debate and to contribute to it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u316	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u317	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 13,000 petitioners who have signed this petition and who have brought this matter to the Assembly of the Republic, precisely so that the profession of cabin crew is qualified as a rapid wear. We welcome your concerns and demands. This has already been referred to the high level of wear that this profession is subject to and, in fact, by the functions it performs, cabin crews are subject to high professional risks, to factors of penalizing wear, which have to be considered similar to other professions that already have this status of rapid wear. Now, cabin crews have, we well know, as the main functions, from the outset, to ensure the safety of aircraft occupants, to comply with safety standards, to act properly even in case of emergency, to guide or collaborate in survival tasks, this in parallel with their normal day-to-day wear, and to provide assistance to passengers, and they still have the duty to ensure before take-off that all emergency equipment is able to be used and also to ensure safety procedures, along with those that are their normal functions. I believe that we all recognize that this activity is, in fact, very exhausting, either because of the conditions that suddenly change, from the point of view of the present climate, both from the physical and psychological point of view, because they are subject daily to high levels of stress and with enormous demands. In addition, these professionals are still subject to irregular working hours, including shiftwork, which has consequences for sleep deprivation. All these professional requirements inevitably have consequences in terms of their well-being and health, including their mental health, and there has been a high number of prolonged medical casualties due to exhaustion, depression and burnout. I also recall that during the work of this House and the committees, particularly in the hearing of the petitioners, we were told by ourselves that there are several studies that demonstrate that, due to the enormous professional requirements, cabin crews are subject to disease, such as, for example, diseases of the cancer forum, musculoskeletal, auditory and even psychological forum. So, obviously, we agree with your claim and we will follow the draft resolutions that have been presented on this subject, because they seem to us to be the most elementary justice, because not only the regulation of the profession, but also the reduction of exposure of these professionals to risk factors inherent in their profession, as well as the creation of ways of minimizing the harmful consequences that this wear has in their personal, family life, throughout their professional life and later, of course, in the reform, due to the weariness of meaning throughout their professional life. The NAP will, of course, follow these initiatives, because it seems to us that it is essential to reduce this wear associated with the exercise of the profession of cabin crew because of the consequences that the profession has and, therefore, we greet the petitioners for bringing us here their concerns, which we will seek to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u318	Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u319	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin my speech by congratulating all the signatories of the petition we are debating. The Socialist Party understands well the claims and concerns of cabin crew members who aspire to qualify their profession as a rapid wear. We also understand the claims and concerns of many other professionals, such as pickpockets, call center operators, wind technicians, among many other professionals who also aim to qualify their profession as a rapidly worn-out profession. In this way, the Socialist Party and the Government believe that it is necessary to lay down exact rules for the definition of standards of rapidly worn-out professions, thus ensuring justice and equity in the qualification of the various professions. It is with this in mind that the Government has to carry out an internal legislative process since the beginning of the year, with the aim of producing a diploma in order to regulate the professions of rapid wear and tear. This process is underway in conjunction with various ministries, with the participation of various related entities and the social partners, with the aim of establishing a set of clear and objective rules to identify which professions should be qualified for rapid wear. A rapid wear profession must first be a profession with access to effective and effective measures to mitigate penocity, with an impact on health and safety issues at work, allowing to reduce the harsh working conditions and their negative impacts on the health of these professionals. The Socialist Party has always put a great focus on health and safety at work, but even with the notion — and we have the notion — that in some professions the mitigation of this risk is difficult, sometimes even impossible, we must always promote the reduction of harsh working conditions and safeguard the irreversible health implications of these professionals. Thus, we believe that until the definition of the new, exact rules, there should not be the qualification of rapid wear professions in a steep manner, as proposed by the projects of the Left and Green Block. Nor can we follow the initiative of the CDS, which proposes the establishment of a working group for the regulation of the rapidly worn-out professions, not because we disagree on this proposal, not because we do not find it worthwhile, but because we consider that the government is already running a process similar to what the CDS proposes and would be a redundancy,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u320	... with the certainty that, in the near future, we will all have the opportunity to debate in this House the process that the government is in progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-13.u321	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our agenda today. We'll have another plenary meeting tomorrow at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. The next item will be three points. The first will be the joint debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme and Resolution Projects Nos 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Supplement to the 2020 Stability Programme with the presentation of a social emergency programme and diplomatic action for its European financing, 441 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, adopt a set of concrete measures enabling responses to all Portuguese affected by the pandemic, 442 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the sovereign law of Portugal decide about its future: fighting the virus and its use, ensuring the development of the country, and 443 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the National Reform Programme, include in the recovery plan of the economic, social and health crisis caused by COVID-19 the strategic option by a model of recovery based on investment in combat and adaptation to climate change, non-application of austerity measures and measures to combat installed interests. The second item on the agenda for tomorrow will generally be the joint discussion of the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for artistic performances in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic and the Bills Nos 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context, 340 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020 of 6 April establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, 370 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of the rights of workers of culture in a pandemic and economic crisis, and 373 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures affecting the Portuguese cultural system in the context of the epidemiological crisis; finally, a third point, regimental votes. The third item on tomorrow's agenda will take place. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have finished our session. I wish the ladies and gentlemen a good day. Members, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists and ladies and gentlemen. Officials and until tomorrow at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 55 minutes.]]
