ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of the authority, I ask you to open the doors of the galleries to the public, in accordance with the rules that we have imposed on ourselves. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will proceed to the reading of the file, and later she will have to account for the entry into the Bureau of more diplomas. But for now, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u2	Mr President, very late for everyone. I am now announcing the submission by the Government of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency from 19 March to 2 April, which is the first item on today's agenda. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 19 / XIV / 1. a — By ensuring the financing of local authorities in the autonomous regions — Tenth amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, approved by Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted to the following bills: No. 263 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the obligation of the meal allowance, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 which falls to 10. the Commission; No. 268 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — New Harbor Work Legal Regime, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission; No 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 from 23 May, which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission; No. 303 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines the suspension of flights originating in Brazil or destination to Brazil ; No. 304 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Ensures the adoption of animal protection measures. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted by Mr President, the following draft resolutions: No. 340 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Recommends the creation of specific guidelines resulting from COVID-19 in the follow-up of pregnant women, delivery care and breastfeeding, which falls to 9. the Commission; No. 341 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the necessary means of assistance and responses after telephone contact with victims of domestic violence in the context of the COVID-19, which falls to 1. the Commission; No 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government urgently re-qualify EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, in Loures, and disclose the schedule of asbestos fiber removal interventions in school equipment; No. 346 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the link between family assistance and the availability of essential service workers, which falls to 13. the Commission; No. 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By implementing measures to support Portuguese citizens abroad, resulting from the COVID-19, which falls to 2. the Commission; No. 349 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a moratorium on housing claims and on the financing granted to undertakings during the contingency period imposed by COVID-19, which falls to 5. the Commission; No. 351 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government integrate EB 2, 3 Mário de Sá Carneiro, de Loures, into the list of schools to intervene and proceed to the immediate removal of all asbestos-containing fibrosis plates; No 354 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government extend the measures of Social Action to all students of the Portuguese education system, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No. 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The creation of support mechanisms for social economy entities in the context of COVID-19, which falls to 1. the Commission; No. 380 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — the immediate distribution of masks to all security forces, private security and prison guards; No. 381 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The guarantee of access by all teachers in the country to information technology enabling them to learn at a distance. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members were removed by the proponents of Resolution Nos 338 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that screenings are carried out throughout the national territory and potentiate them as a prevention and containment strategy and 315 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government schedule and implement the urgent withdrawal of the existing fibration plates in the coverages of EB 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, of Seixal, and plans the necessary requalification works. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. Let us then start the agenda with the assessment of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last March 18, the Assembly of the Republic decided for the first time, within the framework of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic of 1976, the adoption of a two-week period of emergency, on the basis of the Decree submitted by His Excellency the President of the Republic. It did so in the context of a global pandemic, in which, for public health reasons which significantly affected Europe and specifically Portugal, it was necessary to take a set of proportionate, appropriate and timely measures to restrict certain fundamental rights. The Government had already made a number of decisions before the implementation of the state of emergency regime which had contributed significantly to the development which, with the effort of all Portuguese, had been possible. I recall that we had the first case of infection registered in Portugal on 2 March, we recorded the first death on 17 March and it was on 18 that the Assembly of the Republic approved this first period of emergency. Before that, restrictive measures had already been taken to carry out large-scale events, access to restaurants and other establishments had already been restricted, restrictive measures had already been taken in the context of the alert state, it had already been determined to nearby health in Ovar, responses had already been given to border controls or restricted travel to destinations with significant number of cases such as Italy or Spain. The state of emergency thus brought together a great parliamentary consensus and, above all, a great national consensus. And this contributed decisively to the way Portuguese were the great heroes of the application of this state of emergency, such as health professionals, who are at the forefront of ensuring the response to the pandemic, and the security forces and services, which, in a pedagogical and awareness-raising way, have actively contributed to a generalized fulfilment of what are the rules that the Assembly of the Republic has established, as well as those that, in the food chains and essential goods and services, have ensured the functioning of Portuguese society. That is why, by this political consensus between the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, by this so-called broad social consensus and by the commitment of Portuguese society, that this regime, characterized by the restriction of fundamental rights, was marked, i.e., was marked precisely by constraints which were proportional, which were restricted and that they ensured that the first steps were taken to mitigate the pandemic. But all this being the living democracy and the unsustained freedoms. This is the gain that is due to the efforts of all of us and also to the commitment, which the Government welcomes, of the entire Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u5	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate here today is technically related to the period of the first state of emergency declaration, therefore to the period from 19 March to 2 April. But we will all agree that, politically, we should appreciate the whole period before us, until the second state of emergency declaration, which ends today, was the one that significantly undermined the limitation of rights, freedoms and guarantees. Having said this, if we are serious, we will be able to recognize that any of our party forces, put in front of a situation like the one presented to us, would always do the best possible but would make mistakes. It has already been said to the people that «is fast and well enough who». That is why the government is not without mistakes either. It benefits, however, a greater margin of understanding in the face of the special moment we live. But the PSD has been clear in its disagreement with some of the options taken and this is the time to remember, when we consider the Report on the first period of the state of emergency. In matters of sovereignty, such as justice and security, we oppose the widespread forgiveness of sentences and the consequent release of prisoners by mere criteria of a temporal nature, to the shirk of previous judicial decisions, but above all by allowing prisoners representing risk groups to remain in prison. So he went out who didn't need to go out and found who needed to go out. In connection with the territory, we rejected the refusal to share information within the framework of which we are represented with the people. If there are compelling reasons, share them, explain them, we can all eventually come to understand them. But the authorships cannot only be the object of gongorous parliamentary praise whenever they are spoken of here, they must be treated as they deserve, that is, as the armed arm of the government, and of the country, in the fight against this epidemic. In the social area, it is known that almost 50% of the incidence of COVID-19 is found in the populations living in homes of elderly people, there must be a concrete action plan, nationally, in order to prevent contagion in these places that are also easy to spread. In the economy, the government, in the Layoff regime, of simplification in simplification, continues to resist properly recognizing that micro and small business managers are also workers, also have families and have the same needs as workers who manage. In the economy, above all, there is a difficulty in bringing our companies to the announced goal of « ensuring access to liquidity by economic operators ». The agonizing delay in the arrival of liquidity to our companies can determine the end of many of them. Therefore, Mr President, this is the participatory attitude of the PSD, which is serious, knowing how to recognize the difficulties of the present time and how to interpret the position of a responsible party. But it is also an attentive and diligent attitude, not shutting down its convictions and actively collaborating in the search for the best solutions for solving the serious problem that the country is going through. It will be this position and this sense of responsibility with which Portuguese can continue to count on the PSD. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u7	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Mr Minister said, we have seen at an exceptional time since 1976 that has never been invoked in our country and that, therefore, we should also deserve exceptional supervision in this context. It is that we are talking about democracy and the abolition of rights and freedoms within that democracy, which is something that can only be seen as absolutely exceptional. So I think it is worth answering three very specific questions right now: what went well? What's missing? What was indispensable? In the head, what went well is a cause for pride in our country. Our people have shown that they were at the height of the challenge and, as the Government itself acknowledges in the Report which it delivered to the Assembly of the Republic, the population's adherence to preventive and restrictive measures was exceptional. What worked well was what the country must recognize to a very large set of professionals: those who, in health services, ensured that the virus did not bring the best about our society and our people; those who, in essential services, ensured that these services were not lacking to the people; those who, in the security forces and services, knew how to stand up for an exceptional moment in our democracy. What went well shows us, therefore, that part of this state of emergency was already being incorporated into our population and into the general feeling that was being taken forward. What's missing from the state of emergency? The first and most omissions are evidence that employment should have been protected in a way that has not been protected. The prohibition of dismissal was the most important measure at the time when the pandemic crisis brutally hit the economy and became a social crisis, and this was not done as it should have been. That is why tens or hundreds of thousands of workers will pay with the loss of their jobs, and, in front of all of them, temporary workers, precarious workers and often informal workers. I think this could and should have been avoided. There was also a lack of risk allowance for those in the front line of the response to this pandemic and, no less important, for social support to be better suited at this time. For example, the guarantee deadlines for access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment allowance have not yet been changed, which is absolutely essential at the moment. It has also failed to mobilize the productive capacity of private people, particularly in health, which is essential when we see, for example, many homes asking for help in dealing with this situation and we see availability in private spaces to be able to be used in this context. Now, to finish, what was indispensable? What was indispensable was what was seen by many of the Portuguese as free, as absolutely outside the political and citizen level where we were, which was the suspension of the right to strike, the partial suspension of the right of assembly and demonstration or even the suspension of the right of resistance. As proved, all this was absolutely indispensable and is absolutely indispensable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u9	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u10	Our people have shown that they are very aware of the difficulties and very well aware of the dimensions that this crisis and this pandemic require of all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u11	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u12	Mr President, Minister of Health, Minister of Internal Administration, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: Of course, we are discussing an evaluation report of the first fortnight after the statement of emergency state, we are not discussing the goodness of that decision at this moment — there was a time to do so and there will be a time to do it with regard to the proposed renewal which we will discuss next - we are indeed talking about a first balance sheet. It is also important, above all, to obtain from the Government the point of view of this first fortnight. The Minister of Internal Administration said, and we agree, that the Government did not need the state of emergency to take the necessary measures before his statement. This is true, because we all have become aware of the gravity of the situation and, fundamentally — and this is perhaps the first element of the balance sheet that matters to do — because the Portuguese generally have become aware of it. They became aware of the seriousness of the situation and, in a very general way, they felt that those measures were the protection measures recommended by the health authorities. And this happened either before, or after the state of emergency statement. Therefore, it seems to us that the first good example that was given was, in fact, the way in which the Portuguese have since they were advised, the protective measures that they should all take in the paralysis of activities, the protection measures of those who had to remain in activity and the protection measures to be taken on a daily basis, from the very greatest possible confinement in the residence, but also the sanitary measures and adaptation of social life, in order to limit as much as possible the chances of contagion. Therefore, the first element of the balance sheet that needs to be made is the height of the one who has been the sense of responsibility with which the Portuguese generality has seen these measures. But then there is another balance sheet that matters to do, which is the consequences that are occurring in the world of work. And we have a great deal of concern, Mr Minister, with what is going on in the world of work, with situations of abuse by employers, which tend to occur and to be evenly denounced, and have come to us with many testimonies in this regard, aggravated by the fact that the state of emergency is invoked as a means of justifying measures that would otherwise not be taken, and which have to do with dismissals, with terminations of employment contracts, with terminations of service contracts, with forced holidays, with absolutely unjustified restrictions of fundamental rights of workers who would actually import. This balance sheet should be made not only to lament situations but, essentially, to face concrete measures that must be taken to safeguard the fundamental rights of workers in this country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u13	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Report on the Application of the Declaration of the Emergency State tells us about people, a country that has been closed at home, a country that has not stopped completely and has been able to respond to an unknown virus — which is due, above all, to the National Health Service (SNS) and its professionals — in a country that has responded to the challenge and that, even with fear, has maintained the production of essential goods and services. After reading the report, one question is raised: would the Portuguese comply with all the measures described here require a state of emergency, a drastic measure which implies limitations on the freedoms, rights and guarantees of citizens, with consequences that are not yet to be assessed? Oh, my God! Therefore, the question arises whether the country would not comply with each of these measures without such a decision being imposed, if the essential part of the fight against COVID would not exempt the declaration of the state of emergency. From that point on, this is evident when we see the number of occurrences in terms of arrests, which remain for a few tens, revealing a remarkable willingness of the Portuguese people to voluntarily adhere to the measures. We asked whether the state of emergency was responsible for strengthening the National Health Service to ensure robustness in response to the epidemic outbreak, knowing that it would be only in the SNS that the answer could be found for all Portuguese. We asked whether it was the state of emergency responsible for the suppression of public transport, which forces those who continue to work on each other, against all the recommendations we have heard every day. We also asked whether the state of emergency has served to combat the jungle in which labor relations have been transformed, with companies that have accumulated huge profits in recent years, and who have even distributed prizes, even with losses, and dividends that did not have, to say goodbye, to force holidays, to resort to layoff, transferring to workers and social security part of what they could endure. What did the state of emergency do for these workers? What did you do for micro and small businesses? What we read in this report does not keep us quiet. The problems are many. Would it not be useful to require banks to grant access to the credit lines that the government has created for all micro and small businesses meeting the legally established criteria? What is happening is that, since this access is in the discretion of banks, they are preventing many small companies from accessing credit lines, even if they meet the legally required requirements. Will the state of emergency have been used to go to small farmers, who don't know what to do with products that can't drain? Neither did it, because every day there are complaints from the associations of the sector. But even it is understood, as the report states — it goes away! — that « no persistent disturbances have been identified in the supply chain». Perhaps the government can clarify us on these issues, or correct our hand. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u15	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u16	Mr President, Minister of Health, Minister of Internal Administration, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: There are only two things to say about this report of the first period of the state of emergency. And the first thing to say is that it proves that we were right when we said that the state of emergency was not necessary, since the containment measures had the proper legal framework and did not lack this state of exception. On pages 27 to 32, the Report itself recognises numerous « Actions prior to the state of emergency », such as flight limitations, border controls, limitations to events and commercial establishments, limitations in schools and the health environment itself in Ovar. The truth is this: the declaration of the state of emergency was a political decision by the President of the Republic and the Government to legally protect the State at the expense of citizens' rights. The second thing that has to be said is that what is in the report is not so important and what is very important is not in the report. There are no data on how many abuses have been reported, on company insolvencys, on situations of domestic violence, on public officials who have changed their duties, on claims moratoriums, on applications for aid received, on stopped companies, because employees have been at home dealing with their children. This report does not in essence contain any portrait of the real life of the Portuguese in a state of emergency. But there is also nothing that enables us to know how the public authorities will ensure that the early restoration of constitutional normality, which is what the Constitution requires, takes place quickly. Take note of these wise words of the Ombudsman: "It is precisely in emergency situations that we most need the guarantees of law and the rule of law. At the same time, the measures to be taken should be effective in combating the epidemic and in accordance with the rule of law, without which, in time, no democratic society can truly resist and prosper. » I wouldn’t say better.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u17	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, in a very clear way, has supported the state of emergency twice, and will do so again - soon enough, and has supported the generality of the measures that have been adopted with this state of emergency. Obviously, having supported your institution, we are supportive, so to speak, of its application, but this does not mean that we all have to repeat what the government says, which would not, in my view, be a good solution, because it would make the exercise of the role of the opposition parties futile and would ultimately weaken democracy itself. If we just repeat what the government says, we will not have debate, and I do not think that this is very useful. With regard to this report, it is important to say that, as we know, the CDS defended some of these measures before they were implemented. This was the case with the closure of borders, for example, with the closure of schools. I recorded, on behalf of the CDS, that Mr. Prime Minister, in a recent interview, said : "If I knew what I know today, I would have closed schools on day 10". Interestingly, it was on day 10 that the CDS formalized here its proposal for closing schools. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u19	Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister did not need to know what he knows today, he just did what the CDS proposed at the time. But that is not where we take the lead, and I would like to question the government, because there are important data for a future assessment of how we manage this crisis that does not appear in this report. For example, we have seen, and the international press has echoed this, that there have been warnings by the World Health Organization ( WHO ), which itself is also indecisive at an early stage - it is true and we recognize it because we were dealing with a completely new reality - and a very clear warning by Mr Tedros Ghebreyesus on 7 February on the absolute need to acquire equipment. These are data not included in this Report: how did Portugal hear these warnings, when Portugal began to respond to these warnings, when Portugal began to purchase equipment — masks, fans, gloves, all protective material — which, however, as we all know, ended up in certain circumstances missing in the first line, either in hospitals, in the homes and out there. It is a matter of chronology and, moreover, it is the title of this chapter, which is absolutely fundamental and essential. Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, I end with an issue that has to do with implementing measures. The Minister defends here an idea that would apply to cases of disobedience a criterion of a crime of disobedience, but the government has not so far presented — we have also asked this — a sanction framework itself. I ask you whether the government will or will not make this own sanction framework, whether we will always refer to the crime of disobedience or whether we will find it until the mere pedagogy is enough. It is here that there can be a contradiction, Mr Minister, when we point to the crime of disobedience: we are releasing the prisoners, but at the same time we will be threatening a hypothetical prison that has failed to comply with these same measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u20	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u21	This is an issue that needs to be clarified and that is not irrelevant, and with this I conclude, Mr President. Since now, thank you very much for the clarifications that have come to the House. Members of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u22	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : Today we evaluate the state of emergency report and we are called on to say what went right and what went wrong. What went well, we know what it was: it was the citizenship of the Portuguese and also the taking of measures — why don't you say so? Oh, my God! — by the Government, after a lot of pressure on matters that had to be dealt with completely and fundamentally. What went wrong is what the country today should know. The bureaucracy imposed on companies and a state that tells them that they cannot have debts when it is one of the biggest debtors to the private of the European Union. That went wrong! It went wrong to put prisoners out here when the Portuguese are in their homes. That went wrong! It was wrong to have the Air Force take prisoners to their homes and transport when the Minister had said before that the Air Force was not a travel agency. This, yes, went wrong and this, yes, humiliates the Portuguese who are at home watching. It confuses the Portuguese that a Director-General of Health says, one day, that it can use masks and, on the other, that it should not use masks and, on the other, that it does not know whether to use masks and, finally, that it does not know whether or not the World Health Organization advises or does not wear masks. This is what went wrong, and it is the worst example we set for the Portuguese when we want them to be confined to their homes, to comply with state of emergency measures. [[PS protests.]] So, no, this state of emergency didn't go well because the measures were late and because the government was afraid to close borders when, long ago, it should have closed them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u24	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u25	I will finish, Mr. President. Long before anything else, he said: « You have to close the borders! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They called us "extreme right" and talked about fascism, but that is what they did. Today is the concrete proof that we were right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u26	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The report on the implementation of the state of emergency declaration, unequivocally, demonstrated to us the great accession of Portuguese to the restrictive measures which have been consensualized not only by the President of the Republic and by the Government but also by the Assembly of the Republic, as well as the sense of responsibility with which these measures were faced, which, coupled with the data on the evolution of the pandemic, shows that the declaration of the state of emergency has been unequivocally corrected. In particular, we stressed the measures to close school establishments, with the necessary guarantee of family care for children, and the closure of restoration activities, because they were two very positive measures that, in sure, contributed to the containment of the spread of the virus. However, the report shows us that one of the areas in which the Government could have acted more rapidly was precisely the restriction and control of borders. When, on the one hand, we told the Portuguese to stay at home, on the other hand, we continued to allow tourists, by plane or by cruise ships, to enter our country. With regard to this prevention and control that should have been done to travellers, it was not as well as it should have run, particularly with regard to the use of masks, quarantine isolation or temperature measurement. This shows that we have facilitated at this stage of prevention, although we have improved in the necessary containment. In the report in question, the Government also recognises the difficulty of accessing individual protective equipment, in particular due to the shortage of such goods, both internally and internationally. Whether in the attached reports of the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) such as those of the PSP ( Public Security Police ) or Civil Protection, there is a shortage of such equipment, especially in the early phase of the pandemic, as well as problems with the provision of these same equipment in the National Health Service itself. However, at this stage, when we are talking about a phased return to normality and there is already a recommendation for widespread use of masks in closed spaces, it is urgent that, as the NAP has defended, the Government not only regulate certain aspects, starting with the setting of price limits for these products, thus preventing prices from disappearing — still today the news that masks and alcohol are reaching an increase of 1500 % — but also ensuring, of course, an orientation to businesses and industrial units for the production of these products, which are so necessary to the country at this time. With regard to the analysis of the impact of the state of emergency on the various areas, we know that measures aimed at safeguarding people's health have a reverse impact, particularly at the level of the economy and domestic violence, which we cannot fail to mention here. The brutal impact of the pandemic on the economy is now clear to all, we know that we are experiencing one of the greatest recessions in our history and that many companies are already experiencing difficulties. The data in the report tell us that, until last week, one of the credit lines for companies created by the government had already been exhausted and that they had already asked for access to the simplified layoff regime more than 40 000 employers, in most microenterprises, comprising a total of 642 000 workers, and we knew yesterday, by the Minister, that the number of workers was already nearly one million. These data tell us that it is urgent to adopt more meaningful support for companies, ensuring robust financial support for management partners, a proposal that was plunged last week, incomprehensiblely. It is also necessary to ensure that companies that access these credit lines and families do not have to pay interest for these support, not only because such interest will mean asphyxiation for businesses and, now, also for families, but also that the bank, which has spent so much public resources over the last few years, will pay the debt it has for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u29	Even to conclude, Mr President, on the issue of isolation, we are concerned about the need to strengthen the means of combating domestic violence, and we cannot fail to give this note here so that they will indeed increase by meeting the support of the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u30	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Minister, Secretary of State : For the first time, the Republic and the democratic regime deal with an unprecedented challenge, which mobilizes institutions, mobilizes citizens and, for the first time, compels us to decree the state of emergency. Therefore, for the first time in our constitutional history, we do here the evaluation of the execution of the state of emergency, complying with the law and the Constitution. So first of all, we stress that democratic institutions are proving that they are working.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u33	The Government executes the state of emergency and holds accounts before Parliament and Parliament, in full respect of the Constitution, also performs its role of scrutiny and also makes the system work and those who have to oppose it are responsible and those who have to govern it also do so. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u34	in this sense, our concerns are also shared by many parliamentary groups and we wanted to underline precisely the following: it is also looking at the economy and the need to improve, expand and improve the measures that protect companies and citizens who are committed to dealing with this process. It is also looking at the world of work, as Mr António Filipe pointed out, that we are concerned about abuses, but this report notes the strengthening of the powers and capacity of intervention of the Act (Working Conditions Authority) precisely in order to prevent it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u35	The opposition must be responsible, but it must also adhere to the facts and not look at the report, such as Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, saying: "Well, there were measures already there". Indeed, the report describes precisely what happened before and after. And then it demonstrates the need for some measures that only the implementation of the state of emergency allowed to ensure, with balance and proportionality, the protection of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u36	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u37	Not against the state, sir, against the pandemic! The state protects citizens and the function of the state of emergency is precisely to alert the concern to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But let us also, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is fundamental right now. The way we do this debate should not be a lie. It is not repeating lies, Mr André Ventura, that we have built solidarity and as a community a response to the pandemic,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...it is not lying to the Portuguese, speaking of liberations of prisoners who are not real, it is not scaring people with fear, it is not saying that they close the borders to everyone forgetting that supply is necessary, it is not closing ourselves as a community! It is the opposite, it is to open your arms to all who need it, it is not to treat any citizen worse, not to violate the principle of equality and not to treat those who are also our fellow citizens differently, because they are in a different situation. If everyone is at risk, it must be resolved for all and measures must be taken that are cautious to all. In conclusion, it should be pointed out at this point that the report is well descriptive in the following: proportionality, adequacy and adoption of measures necessary to restrict fundamental rights only to this extent, only when absolutely necessary to protect others. at this moment, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival mimics the gesture of playing violin. Don't touch the violin, sir! Deep down, it degrades the parliamentary institution and degrades itself! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u38	In fact, we are having a debate that we have never had in democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a debate on fundamental rights, we have a debate on citizens' rights. Not even the Constitution, because it protects your right from sitting here and your right to use the word. It is the Constitution that allows you to represent the Portuguese who voted in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we are not in a television debate where you can hit the back of your colleagues at the end of the program, very quietly, because you were just doing a little circus to entertain the fans of football clubs. This is the Assembly of the Republic, Mr! Here we represent the citizens seriously, indeed! [[P.S.'s applause.]] In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this is what strengthens our democracy, it is the dissent, it is the power to tell those with whom we do not agree and who call into question the institutions that are doing so and the power to tell all other parliamentary groups — here I include all other parliamentary groups except Mr André Ventura — who, in any way or otherwise, have sought to be constructive and have been committed to solving the problems of the Portuguese people, which we are all building better the Republic of April. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u39	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u40	That is why, with great pleasure, we will be here on 25 April to mark this founding day of our democracy and our freedom, because the state of emergency will not prevent the Republic and will not prevent democracy from fruiting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u41	To close the debate, the Government has the floor, first of all through the Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I am taking advantage of to greet her, because I have not seen her since yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the Government and the Ministry of Health, neither one or the other used the state of emergency, we executed the state of emergency. As for us, in terms of the four questions raised about the right to information, we respect it scrupulously. In fact, we call for more coordination and more reliability, but never more than that. Regarding the issues raised about the homes, the concern was that of articulation between the various intergovernmental areas and also with the authorities. Therefore, we jointly dispatched about the need for a joint decision-makers and strengthened the intervention of primary health care in homes, many of which are not even from the National Health Service and do not belong to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. With regard to the demand for private individuals, we did not use it because we managed to give all the answers that were necessary and we also managed to prepare agreements that would be necessary if the situation grew. As far as purchases are concerned, from the outset we have joined the centralised purchases of the European Union, reinforced stocks and continued to buy. It is curious that the World Health Organization is invoked when we are interested and that the World Health Organization is not invoked when it legitimately raises doubts about a set of measures we have followed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, what seems to us to have gone well in this state of emergency was, in fact, the behaviour of the people, the workers, many of them public officials, who for many years have struggled to anatemoize, and also the ability of this House and politicians to be different, not to be all the same and to respect democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u43	To conclude this debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, in difficult times, has to be a time for us to know how to live democracy. This state of emergency is a time for suspension of some constitutional rights. This is the first time that in our April experience we are faced with this picture, but therefore we are here to account, with the detailed and substantiated report that the law of the state of emergency requires, saying that we did not agree to the health crisis with the state of emergency declaration. Yes, before that we had closed schools, we had activated hospitals, we had repositioned border controls, in coordination with Spain, and in fact, reference was made to the way we did it in the European framework. But in a state of emergency, with the convergence of the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, the Government has fulfilled its mandate and it is on that mandate which is now taking account of this Report. We have contributed to the health and safety of Portuguese people, we have contributed to the mitigation of the pandemic; we have contributed to the effort, first of all, of Portuguese, workers and employers, of health and safety personnel, of those who have ensured that bread existed at the table or that urban waste was collected. All these are those who are on the front line of a work that is of all. But we did so without suspending the freedoms, and we did so - in fact proudly - recognizing the rights of migrants and refugees in an emergency framework, because they cannot be forgotten, dealing with homeless people, dealing with those who must be protected at every moment. We are here to account and, above all, to define with you, together, this national cohesion, how to get out of here and how, with hope, look to the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u45	We have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda, which consisted of an assessment of the Report on the Implementation of the Declaration of the State of Emergency. This report, as it was consensualized yesterday at the Leaders Conference, will be distributed by the various committees and will then return to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic for a final vote, as is constitutionally required. We will move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the debate on the request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. Before that, I would ask the services to carry out a quorum check, for the purpose of voting, so that — as there are too many Members within the Chamber — those who may and will leave the Chamber. In the meantime, I would ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the diplomas that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce a number of diplomas which have entered the Bureau and which have been admitted by Mr President. First, I refer to Law Nos 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary budgetary procedure following the disease pandemic COVID-19 and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of the citation and postal notification within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. Bill Nos 334 / XIV / 1 also entered. a ( IL) — Simplifies the payment of tax and social security obligations under the COVID-19 pandemic ( First Amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - F / 2020 of 26 March ), 335 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends access of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to economic support in the context of the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19, which falls to 5. the Commission in connection with 10. a, and 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers, which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 10. a. Resolution Projects Nos 384 / XIV / 1 were also accepted. a ( CH) — Due to the obligation to use protective masks in supermarkets during the pandemic, which falls to 9. the Commission, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The allocation of a risk allowance to professionals in the front line of the pandemic, which falls to 9. the Commission in connection with 1. a, 386 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By exemption from VAT in the individual protection material against COVID-19, which falls to 5. the Commission, 387 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For exceptional support to the taxi and TVDE transport service, due to the state of emergency decreed by the COVID-19, which falls to 6. the Commission, 388 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For religious assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 9. the Commission, in connection with 1. a, 389 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By reporting and replacing several missing data by DGS, in order to ensure transparency in a state of emergency, which falls to 9. the Commission, 390 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For the provision of data by DGS relating to COVID-19 in regular formats, verified and easily processed by the scientific community, which falls to 9. the Commission, 391 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The reopening of currently inactive prison establishments as an alternative to the massive release of prisoners by the Government of the Portuguese Republic, which falls to 1. the Commission, 392 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The creation of a professional career as health assistant, which falls to 13. the Commission in connection with 9. a, and 393 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary economic and social recovery programme for the city of Ovar for the COVID-19 pandemic, which falls to 6. the Commission. Mr. President, that's all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u47	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. The electronic picture records the presence of 116 women and women. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum and we have conditions for all the votes to be taken from here to the front. In other words, this is an indirect invitation for the ladies and gentlemen. Members whose presence is not indispensable for voting may, for security reasons, leave the Chamber. We will then begin the second item on our agenda, which consists of the debate on the request for the renewal of the state of emergency. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and other members of the Government who have, however, come and give the floor to begin this debate, to Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are for the second time called to pronounce ourselves on the extension of the state of emergency, decreed on 18 March. The Socialist Party is again voting in favour, because we are aware of the exceptionality of the challenge we face, of the scope of the measures necessary to deal with it and of the responsible weighting with which the Government has used the instruments placed at its disposal in order to combat the pandemic without losing democracy. The strategy we have adopted has also proved effective, because we have continued to rely on epidemiological specialists and public health professionals who, even yesterday, have once again mentioned our tendency to reverse the situation. In this regard, it is emphasized that the difference between a responsible approach of politicians who make policy based on scientific evidence that we have in Portugal and the irresponsibility, adventureirism and the appeal to the ignorance we have seen in other countries is the difference between those of whom we have the right to expect a leadership position in the world. It is sad to see the country that is probably the most advanced in the world scientifically walking in the wrong direction and, by the hand of its President, weakening the world's capacity to respond to the health crisis. We want to believe that the President of the European Commission is right when he says that Europe is now the heart of global solidarity. But there is still a lack of decisions we hope that the European Council will have the clarity to take for the sake of Europe so that its President's warning to populists is more than just words. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, President of the Republic, Government and Parliament, including the generality of the opposition, have shown an attitude of respect for science and have achieved convergence in the answers that we should be proud of. in these days, democratic institutions have revealed maturity and sense of state and the parties, without precluding representing diversity, have been able to cooperate on behalf of the greater interests of the Portuguese. The PS will continue to track, with all, this hard path to combat the pandemic. We will not abandon it now that we have already begun to see the possibility that in the short term we will gradually resume the normality of our social life. But these days have also shown, to those who still doubt, the importance of a strong and structured National Health Service, such as ours, one of the best in the world and which has the doors open to all people. These days have confirmed the importance of a robust social state, capable of addressing all, and especially the most vulnerable,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... a social state which, in parallel with health, has wagered in public school and in education. What these emergency days also brought us was the certainty of the quality, commitment and delivery of the teachers who put themselves at the service of the solutions and, in record time, reinvented themselves to allow their students, even at a distance, to continue the school year, committed to leaving no student behind, especially those for whom the school most represents the decisive difference. For all the teachers, thank you very much. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this emergency of public health has confronted us with vicious problems that we knew and that require new structural measures in the post-crisis, problems ranging from the digital exclusion of children and young people to the conditions of providing care to the elderly, from segmentation of the labour market to the persistence of extreme forms of poverty, from the difficulties of reconciling professional life with family life to the working and living conditions of many workers. We are right on the verge of the greatest crisis in the last century and we are aware that the world that will come out of it is taking serious risks of being temporarily worse than the one that entered it, but we do not want this to be the history of our country. The certainty of a strong social state, of the mobilization of all and of the strengthening of public investment are fundamental parts to facing the challenges of the future. Gaining future freedom in April is the purpose that we now have to mobilize, that is, we will all continue, in a cohesive manner, to do everything necessary to overcome the challenge of public health and, at the same time, to prepare for the post-emergency future. We must work to regain the concrete freedom to pursue our lives, to rebuild our daily lives, to resume, prudently, everything that can be resumed from our activities, but knowing that each step back to activity will also be a step that can be a step with more care and with new precautions. Never, as now, have we had such a concrete and immediate perception of how much freedom and responsibility are intimately linked. There's a country to refill. We have a great deal of effort in front of us, but we also know that this will not be achieved with the nefarious formulas of austerity which, unfortunately, we know. The Prime Minister has already been very clear in this regard: it is not with austerity that a crisis of this kind is responding to it, it is with support for businesses and jobs and we will do everything we can to keep jobs, which, in turn, will keep companies working and which, in turn, will help to recover the Portuguese economy. The Portuguese are resilient, have known how to reinvent themselves and will know it. Mr. President, I end up with a unfortunate coincidence: today I wanted the fate that Luís Sepúlveda would succumb to the COVID-19. We knew, as the author wrote, "to admire the resistant, those who made the verb resist flesh, sweat, blood and demonstrated without fear that it is possible to live standing even in the worst moments. Stand up for freedom. I also wanted the fate of another unfortunate coincidence, that the COVID-19 has led a great Portuguese scientist. If today we have a public health that we are proud of, this is largely due to the fact that Maria de Sousa realized, when she arrived in Portugal, the urgent need of the country to build a critical mass in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u49	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u50	I conclude, Mr. President. We would not today have the confidence that we have without the excellent skills that this excellent scientist has brought to us. That is why, 46 years later, to conquer in April the future freedom gains new and unexpected meanings. And it is free that, in Portugal, it prepares itself in April, today as 46 years ago, to meet the economic challenges that come there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u51	I have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u52	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: It is up to us today, once again, to decide whether or not the state of emergency should be extended. For this, it is up to us to look at the fundamental indicators of this emergency month. There is a fact that it is absolutely fundamental: at the beginning of the emergency state, the number of infected people grew 35 % a day; today, it is growing about 5 % and therefore its average growth rate during this month was 13,2 %. There is an average trend of 35 % to 13, 2 %. In addition, everything indicates that we have already passed the peak of the epidemic, with the famous R0, the indicator that indicates how many people each infected, in turn, are infected. When it reaches 1, we reach the peak and what is currently consensus among scientists is that we will be in 0, 95, which means that we evolved from 1, 8 to 0, 95 from the beginning of the state of emergency. Therefore, it makes every sense to prolong the state of emergency, just because the results have been positive. If the results were negative, it was justified to change the strategy. The PSD will therefore vote in favour of the decree of the President of the Republic. But, Mr President, if I do not see as far as possible the immediate slowing down of the measures of embarrassment, I see as absolutely essential the start of planning for the gradual opening of our economy. Every day that passes, the more difficult it will be to recover the economy and, therefore, we must begin planning its opening in the short and medium term. Planning in the short term means balancing health protection with a prudent and gradual opening of the economy. The Portuguese have acquired protective habits that will now be fundamental to this opening. They are able to comply with basic rules, such as to stay in telework, to work at a considerable distance from colleagues when they cannot be at home, to permanently clean up the work offices, to defend the elderly. They are fundamental measures so that we can open our economy again, and for example, outdoor activities as part of agriculture or civil construction can certainly start again quickly. But there is one point that is essential, absolutely decisive, for this opening, which is the widespread use of masks. As long as there is no possibility for everyone to protect themselves with a mask, we do not have the conditions to open up the economy. And because it is a decisive aspect, I make a very concrete proposal, which depends only on an order from Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, which is to pass the rate of 23 % VAT (tax on value added) on masks and disinfectant gel for the reduced rate of 6 %. [[PSD applause.]] It is a measure that we can take immediately. Planning in the medium term, something we should also do, has to do with a very serious aspect, which is the high probability that we can have a second wave of the pandemic next winter. The Government must prepare the country for this eventuality. The Ministrys of Health, Economics, Labour, Internal Administration and Defence - and the Ministry of Health should be increasingly called on to help in this fight - must have all the organization and all the logistics planned when we arrive in winter, by November heights. The Government must have an organized health system for this purpose, with hospitals ready to react on-line and also internally organized and prepared, in order to respond to COVID-19 and other patients who have to resort to it. There is one aspect that we need to take into account now, that without vaccine there are only two ways of protecting ourselves: to increase individual protection and to strengthen our immune system. Therefore, I have proposed the reduction of VAT for masks and gel and I make exactly the same proposal for all those nutrients that are scientifically proven as a reinforcement of our immune system. Several scientists, and the Directorate-General for Health itself, have already advised some in particular, in addition to what we all know, such as vitamin C or vitamin D. What I propose is also reduced VAT for all these food supplements that strengthen our immune system and that will allow in November, if there is a second wave, that we can all be more resistant to the virus, so if we catch it, the reaction of the body will be much stronger than what might be if we are not properly defended. I therefore propose: reduced VAT; clarification campaign on this matter; and greater control in speculation on the prices of these products which are now of first need. We must arrive in winter with better hospital organization, more individual protection capacity and with our body with more natural defenses. Mr President, in conclusion, my last word is for the Portuguese: we are achieving positive results, we cannot ruin everything now, we must continue to do so. The fact that there is good news cannot be an incentive for non-compliance, it must be an incentive for compliance. Let's not turn today's good news into bad news tomorrow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u53	You have the floor, for an intervention, by the Left Block, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u54	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and others Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, the partial paralysis strategy seems to be bearing fruit. The number of infected with COVID-19 continues to grow, but at a slower rate, and the pressure on the SNS (National Health Service) can be relieved soon. The example we have given as a country should pride us. The health situation is still worrying and requires an extension of the measures to reduce movements and limit contact, we know, but these measures, which cannot disappear overnight, do not depend only on the state of emergency. The emergency state must be proportional, directed only to the essential to cope with the emergency and during the strictly necessary time. And if the data we have today are confirmed, the strictly necessary time does not need to extend until April. There are other mechanisms that, without harming constitutional rights, will be capable and sufficient for a new phase. The concerns of the Block in this last emergency period have not changed: to strengthen the response capacity of the SNS and to support health professionals; to respond to the social and economic crisis; and to defend employment and wages. We note that, in this decree, there is an approximation to certain positions we have seen repeating. The obligation of the Government to consult the representatives of workers in labour measures is to prove that this obligation has never been suspended, and, contrary to what has been speculated, there are neither new security measures nor intrusive measures, such as georeference. in other cases, however, this does not happen. We have also repeated — and the events give us reason — that there has been no reference to the limitation of the right to strike in essential sectors. The risk to the country does not come from the workers, who have been jointly tireless—in health as in the security forces, in transport as in supermarkets, in essential production as in the collection of garbage, in schools as well as in social support. What we need is more rights and not less, of course, access to the risk allowance for those in the front line. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The danger today comes from irresponsible employers who use the crisis as an excuse for dismissal or who put the health of workers at risk by forcing them to work without safety conditions, denying telework, exposing workers from risk groups. Therefore, we have argued that the Government can and should go further in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by the state of emergency: the requirement of private clinics and hospitals that have closed, to support the response to the homes of the elderly and other urgent needs; the prohibition of all redundancies and reintegration of redundancies dismissed as a condition of access by companies to any public support that must be strengthened; the prohibition of the distribution of dividends, in line with warnings issued by the Committee on the Securities Market itself; the prohibition of banking commissions and limitation of spreads, so that the support reaches the rest of the economy; more social support to those who have lost employment and to the most vulnerable populations; and that the guarantee of access to essential goods becomes a price reduction and is lasting, so that no family, now protected by the prohibition of waste and cuts of water, light or communications, is caught in debt at the end of this period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u56	Today, EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) decides to distribute nearly 700 million euros in dividends, while the generality of families struggles to pay an account of light that is unfairly high. Next week, Galp decides to distribute more than 300 million euros in profits to shareholders after having fired dozens of precarious workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u57	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u58	Large companies such as Sonae and Jerome Martins also support the distribution of dividends. This is where action is urgent and the state of emergency decree empowers the government to impose measures of economic wisdom. He wants the government to use them. in recent days, some voices — employers, above all — have tried to find a contradiction between health response and economic and social response. Let no one be deceived: nothing would be more catastrophic, socially and economically, than a humanitarian tragedy caused by the spread of the disease. And, in the disease as in the economy, they are always the poorest who get the most unprotected. It is to protect them that must serve the state of emergency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u59	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u60	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The reality confirms that the reasons that led the CFP to distance themselves from the state of emergency were fair and correct. At the time when its second renewal is discussed, there are clearly three conclusions. The first is that this decision has proved unnecessary and disproportionate in the fight against public health against the epidemic. The second is that it is a decision which continues to serve as a pretext for imposing on workers the most diverse abuses, arbitrariness and violations of their rights, while providing cover for the accumulation of profits of economic groups. The third is that there is a feeling of trivialization of the state of emergency, which is incompatible with the seriousness of a decision in which the suspension or restriction of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees is involved. The findings of this reality and of the course that has occurred since the state of emergency was decreed justify that the CFP votes against its renewal. The course verified in recent weeks, with the public health measures decreed, its widespread compliance by the Portuguese and the positive results achieved confirm today that the declaration of the state of emergency was unnecessary and disproportionate. The containment measures are necessary; the state of emergency to impose them is not. Combating the epidemic does not depend on the state of emergency. The most relevant decisions that were rightly taken to deal with the epidemic had already framed in the law and were, in fact, decided before or outside the state of emergency decrees. The Portuguese did not wait for the state of emergency to comply with public health measures and complied with them even before this being decreed. The reality of the last few weeks has frustrated the security intentions of those who dreamed it would be necessary to forcefully enforce the rules that the Portuguese have observed voluntarily and in a general way. The mobilization and effort required by the professionals of the security forces and services and civil protection were far beyond what was necessary, had negative consequences on their exposure to the epidemic risk and would have future consequences on the wear of these professionals. The end of the state of emergency does not mean the end of the containment health measures or the verification of their compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u62	It means that none of this is decided unnecessarily or disproportionately in view of the reality and development of the epidemiological situation. At the same time, the state of emergency continues to be a pretext for an offensive against the rights of workers, with the imposition of all kinds of abuse and arbitrariness, giving cover to the path of aggravating the exploitation and impoverishment of workers and the accumulation of profits of economic groups, including the appropriation of public resources. The government can well make statements of intent, saying that it refuses the return of austerity policy, but it is there, in the lives of workers, imposed by the patronage. The Government's statements are of no use if, in practice, the state of emergency continues to be the pretext for making employment and workers' rights disappear, for abusive dismissal, for imposing forced holidays, for cutting wages or for imposing the deregulation of working hours with hourly banks and other articles existing in labour law. The Government can well make statements of intentions on the mobilization of national resources to address the economic consequences of combating the epidemic and to ensure the needs of the people and the country. These declarations are of no use if the economic groups of the distribution continue to ruin producers with the breakdown of prices they are imposing; if the economic groups of the energy and fuel sector continue to set prices without any control and without consideration for the impact that this has on the country and the national economy; if the bank continues to serve small and medium-sized enterprises and families, refusing access to credit or imposing ruinous conditions; or even if the economic groups can continue to decide to distribute dividers by shareholders, particularly scandalous decisions when it comes to economic groups whose profit is made in Portugal but whose taxes are paid in the Netherlands, by bulkening the State budget of countries whose governments despise the difficulties of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u64	The renewal of the state of emergency will mean maintaining the pretext for all these negative developments for the lives of workers and for the economic and social situation of the country. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The declaration of the state of emergency cannot be trivialized, because the suspension or restriction of citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees is at stake. We have stated in the first discussion, and we insist, that the declaration of the state of emergency should not be decided on the basis of abstract or theoretical considerations, requiring the reasoned verification of the existence of an exceptional framework which can justify such a decision and the verification of measures which, in particular, are identified that they can only be carried out from that declaration. Its subsequent renewal, regardless of the conditions and results of its previous implementation, establishes the democratically dangerous idea of the irrelevance of suspension or restriction of rights, freedoms and guarantees. This becomes even more worrying when it is found, from the national reality, that it is not in the state of emergency that the response to the fight against the epidemic is found and much less the solution to national problems. This is why the CFP will vote against the renewal of the state of emergency. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u65	I have the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of emergency is a restriction of each individual's freedom and, as such, must always be exceptional and as limited as possible. The fact that we are already living in a situation where we will renew this state of emergency for the second time means that we must recognise to all Portuguese the ability to abdicate the most important of all rights: the right to their freedom. We thank each and every one of them. We thank the families who have adapted to work at a distance and who have more recently adapted to reconcile this with the follow-up of children, children who, at home, also have to study at a distance. We thank the elderly, who are so often alone, who have been alone for so long without being able to contact their closest relatives, because this is the most effective way to protect their health, which is an extremely harsh injustice for these elderly. On the other hand, there are some who are at home, but there are those who have not been able to do so, who have left home to protect us, such as health professionals, workers from social solidarity institutions, forces and security services, civil protection agents, teachers, who now also adapt to a new way of giving their lessons, public service workers, workers from so many other sectors of activity: trade, industry and agriculture. Let me say the following: there is a very urban idea that the country is all stopped and that there are no factories working. That's a city idea, but it's wrong. There's a lot of production going on in the country right now. It is good that we all know this, of course, thanking all Portuguese who, in very different circumstances than those before, continue to lend their work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u68	... so that the country will not stop, so that we can all continue to live a life as much as possible with that which we had lived before, but above all, so that the country, as soon as possible, will again be what it was. There are a lot of people working for it to be so, and we must recognize it. So it is in agriculture and also in public entities. I am grateful to our autarchs, to all the autarchs of all parties and to all levels of local power for the extraordinary work they have done in the monitoring of proximity and in the service of their populations, far beyond their functions, and in many cases to overcome the failures of the central State, which has failed to provide what the autarchs, in the vicinity, have been able to provide. However, all this feeling of gratitude in an emergency state cannot inhibit what is fundamental in democracy: plurality and the difference of opinion. There is a certain tendency to generate, in the public's opinion, the idea that 'a state of emergency' implies unanimity. There's nothing more wrong. If the state of emergency limits freedoms, the plurality of political debate is more necessary than ever. If the state of emergency limits the possibility of each one to defend himself and to be represented, in no way can one withdraw from the plurality of the parties, the plurality of the political debate and the difference of views on how to deal with this situation which should be his greatest capacity: that of, to plurality, we associate representativeness. This was essential for patients who wanted access to the Health Line 24 and found it congested; for health professionals, who did not have the personal protective equipment; for home workers, who wanted to provide their service and did not have these equipment; for users of these homes, who should have been tested earlier and who only later were able to be tested; for the city halls, who fought for a balance, from a regional point of view, in the distribution of resources; for so many people who needed someone to speak for them, that someone would say something different from the official discourse so that they could be correcting the deficiencies that were existing. It is also necessary to continue to speak in the representativeness of families who still have difficulty in reconciling work at a distance with the support of children at home who are attending classes. Obviously, everyone realizes that no one can work and accompany their children at the same time, if there are no special conditions and organization to do so. It is also necessary to continue to speak of small entrepreneurs who see a situation of extreme injustice: one layoff who does not support a small entrepreneur for having, for example, only three employees in charge. What system is this that protects the three workers, but that kills the business? Oh, my God! What good is it to be protecting three employees of an individual employer if that individual entrepreneur does not have support and obviously will not be able to reopen his business next? Oh, my God! We're fooling ourselves if we don't understand the need to change this form of layoff. It is true that the layoff has already been changed several times, but you need to be again. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This new state of emergency has already alleviated, to some extent, the restriction of freedoms. For us, this is essential, but for it to be effective, it is necessary to ensure consistency in the speech of public entities. It is easy to respect certain rules when at home. If we want people to start leaving, public entities can't recommend something in a day and something different the next day, because people will have trouble fulfilling what they are...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u70	I will finish, Mr. President. Public entities cannot recommend something and then appear on television to do the opposite. They cannot recommend a social distance which, after that, does not perform in their daily activities. Finally, there must be credibility. The society cannot be prohibited from doing what the public authorities are still doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u71	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u72	The celebration of the Easter cannot be prohibited, keeping the celebration of 25 April, which disregards all the rules which the public authorities recommend in Parliament. It is essential that we be at the time and that we do not give the wrong signs, so as not to compromise the success of what we all want to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u73	Mr President, one of the things that was brought to us on 25 April was the will of democracy and the majority. There is a large majority in this Parliament who wants to celebrate April 25.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u74	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u75	And we are going to celebrate April 25, in this Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u76	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u77	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u78	Mr President made a comment, so I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u79	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u80	Mr President knows very well, and I recognise that, another of the things that has brought us on 25 April, and which is very important, is freedom of speech. Freedom of expression has a greater place in this Parliament than anywhere else. Therefore, even if there is a large majority, there is someone who disagrees, he has as much right to have his opinion heard as those who agree with that majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u81	At the exact moment, that was yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u82	The moment is when you want freedom and democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u83	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : Thanks to the restrictive measures imposed by the state of emergency and the sense of responsibility of the citizens who have known to respect them in the last few weeks, we have finally been able to stop, below 5 %, the growth rate of the number of new cases, put Portugal below the average of cases and deaths of the European Union and successfully prevent the famous curve from reaching the breaking point of the National Health Service. With these measures, we have managed to save lives, but these good results, even if they have to give us hope for the future, should not lead us to euphoria or make us softer in the restrictions imposed and in compliance with them. Today, it is important to warn that we cannot lower our guard in the fight against COVID-19, under the penalty of, in a few weeks' time, we are at risk of throwing all our efforts on the ground and seeing the number of cases to be taken up. We can't waste in 15 days the effort we've made over a month. So it makes sense to renew the state of emergency. We learned from history, which shows us, through a study of experts from the New York Federal Reserve, that, when the Spanish flu from the beginning of the last century, the American cities that applied the toughest measures of social isolation and for longer time had levels of recession similar to the other cities, but were able to recover more quickly and with more success of the economic impacts caused in the post-pandamy period. Let us not forget that the COVID-19 is not defeated and is there. We continue in the transmission phase, which means that the virus is in the community, that it is no longer possible to identify all the contact links, that the risks from a street exit are even greater and that now the time is not to facilitate. at this stage, the priority remains to ensure individual and collective prevention measures. It is obvious that we perceive and closely follow the concerns and appeals of the various sectors of our economy, in particular local trade, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also of artists and liberal professionals. But it is very important that at this stage, steps are not burned or acted with precipitation. Return to normality must be made rigorously, responsibly, gradually and with adequate monitoring and compensation mechanisms. We can only guarantee this return to normality, without which this means an anticipation of a second wave of contagios, if there is a significant reduction in severe cases, deaths and transmissibility, i.e. when the probability of infection is very low. at this time, it is more than obvious that this probability of infection is still relatively high. We can only return to a new normality if we ensure that there are previously adequate contingency plans and that we can build an efficient network to monitor the epidemiological situation. Public health experts are the most specialized professionals for case detection and to monitor their development in the community, will be the pivots of the action relief phase. However, we are far from the appropriate number of these professionals in our country. Here, action must be taken, in advance of the strengthening of technicians in order to constitute an effective surveillance system. In the opening of schools for the 11th. o and 12. in the years, we must ensure that this first moment of relief of restrictions will have to be accompanied by rigorous epidemiological surveillance measures among educational communities. when we make this first relief measure, we will have to demonstrate, from now on, the capacity of the Portuguese epidemiological surveillance system, which will be progressively extended to other sectors. on this occasion, I can only point out that, in order to prepare for gradual return to normality, all citizens must have access to the individual means of protection necessary to combat and prevent COVID-19, such as masks, gloves, alcohol or disinfectant gel. It is not acceptable for citizens in Portugal to be unprotected due to prohibitive prices or the shortage of products. in this framework, it is not possible to return to normality. Last week, the NAP presented here a proposal aimed at setting maximum price limits for these products and avoiding speculation. But it was rejected by PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the Liberal Initiative. Today, in the gallery, Dr. Rui Rio spoke about the need for food supplements. It would be good, Dr. Rui Rio, to take food supplements for memory, because here, in the gallery, says something and there sitting, on the bench, votes against. Until it is ignored that most Portuguese are not currently accessing masks, alcohol or disinfectant gel? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the rush can lead us to make fatal mistakes and to make a second wave of contamination emerge early, so we must be able to maintain the sense of responsibility and discernment we have had so far and the courage to continue to take the right and necessary measures at every moment. I conclude by greeting the great generality of the citizens through the civics they have had over the past few weeks and expressing our greatest gratitude to the workers of services and supply of essential goods, who have not stopped the whole country to stop, and to the health, safety and civil protection professionals who, with few means and low wages, are taking care of all of us, saved lives and states, day by day, fighting the virus in hospitals. For all of them the country has a debt of gratitude that has to be able to pay as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u85	For an intervention, you have the floor by the Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u86	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: As we mentioned when this House discussed the state of emergency and as we reaffirmed in its first renewal, the essential part of the fight against this collective threat was not dependent on the state of emergency. In our view, the Government had all the legal instruments to take the necessary measures to deal with this crisis within the normal legal framework and without the need to impose any restrictions on citizens' rights, freedoms and guarantees. And if we consider it in both the initial discussion of the declaration and the first renewal, we continue to consider it today. It is true that we are facing a collective threat, whose complexity and dimension are still very unpredictable. It is true that the exceptional situation in which we live continues to require exceptional and urgent measures to strengthen or provide health services with the means necessary to deal with a problem with this seriousness. But it is also true that the state of emergency was not required to allow health care providers to acquire equipment, resources and services more quickly and beyond the normal bureaucratic process required. Nor was it necessary for the state of emergency to ensure that there were no budgetary obstacles preventing the services from taking the necessary measures to deal with the problem at hand and with full determination. The need for strengthening the National Health Service has nothing to do with the state of emergency. On the other hand, if we go back in time, we easily realize that the most important measures in this fight, from the point of view of the spread of the coronavirus, were taken out of the state of emergency, even before it was decreed. I am referring to the closure of schools and the voluntary confinement of Portuguese — children have stopped going to school even before the guidance of the authorities, many adults have not been waiting for the recommendations to stay at home and many restaurants have closed or started taking action even before the recommendations have become generalized. And it was not even necessary for the Directorate-General for Health to publicly acknowledge that the Portuguese were respecting the guidelines not only on voluntary quarantine, but also on safeguarding and on the necessary social distance, because we all realize this fact, which shows, in fact, that the Portuguese are fully aware of what is priority and what is at stake. in this context, it must be said that the declaration of the state of emergency or its renewal has not prevented the abuses by many companies, especially large ones, who continue to take advantage of the situation and to fire workers, to conclude term contracts before time, to proceed with summary dismissals, to denounce contracts during the experimental period or even to impose or force the holiday enjoyment on workers. Abuse, too, when they seek to fatten their profits at the expense of this collective threat, through speculation of prices not only of individual protective materials, but also of other products, especially food. The declaration of the state of emergency or its renewal has not even been able to ensure that all companies that meet the legal requirements have access to the credit lines, leaving the banks the power to decide on such access, even if the companies meet the legal criteria. What would be a decisive contribution to the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and release them from the discretionary power that banks continue to have and make use, even in periods like what we live, has not been achieved with the state of emergency. Moreover, it is not necessary to mention the importance that micro and small businesses represent in our country and in our economy, despite the suffocation that they are going through. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Greens it has always been very clear that one thing is containment measures, necessary and imperative, another very different thing is the declaration or maintenance of the state of emergency. In fact, it is not by chance that we have heard health authorities, specialists and even the scientific community defend the need to maintain containment measures, but we have not heard them defend or recommend the state of emergency or its extension. And from those who argue, like the Greens, that the measures to be taken in such a situation should have a minimum of technical support could not be expected either to vote in favour of the declaration of the state of emergency or to extend it. We believe that, immediately, it is necessary to continue with the containment measures, without prejudice to admit, even that it is time to start weighing and discussing the form, time and scope of possible reliefs, naturally phased and balanced and provided that all security conditions are guaranteed to citizens, but always with the conviction that has guided us in this process: we do not confuse containment measures with the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we don't confuse containment measures with the state of emergency, because one thing is containment measures and another, quite different, is the state of emergency. Even so, and applying here the precautionary principle, the Greens will abstain from this new request for authorization to renew the state of emergency. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u89	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: We all know that this is not the time to lift the restrictions that unfortunately continue to be imposed on our fellow citizens. It's not time and it's time, and that's why we're here and we're still fighting. But it is time to reflect on the state of emergency that we have and what we need to put Portugal on the path to its true liberation. We cannot have an emergency state in which the State promises liquidity to businesses and less bureaucracy when it is the largest liquid debtor of these suppliers and one of the largest in the whole European Union. Why didn't the state pay off the suppliers' debts? It is a question that many of those who are closing their businesses are now asking themselves. It is also the day to ask why, when firefighters, and the autarchs also alert to lack of tests, we give tests to other countries, as we still have today, and the Portuguese must know. Still today, tests have been passed on to other countries, when we do not have them in our own territory. But it is also the day when we say that it is the state that benefits from the crisis and that does not take away VAT from the protective materials that must be bought by, for example, the authorities. How can a State profit from materials purchased to fight against this pandemic? Oh, my God! In the middle of this, we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who alerts, and well, the Portuguese, to say: « My friends, don't be mistaken, the Air Force is not a travel agency to get our compatriots who were trapped across the Atlantic. » It is not! It's to take prisoners inside the national territory! That's what the Air Force is for! To get Portuguese out there, they don't go, but to take prisoners home, they can count on them, who are dealing with it. [[PS protests.]] When we need and raise our hands to the confined Portuguese, we create culture festivals for EUR 1 million — EUR 1 million —, when the Portuguese have no money to support their businesses and their lives. How can we live with this? Oh, my God! And how can we allow this House itself to say now that we're going to hold on, we're going to suspend all this, we're going to shake hands, we're going to put the nails on our chest and we're going to gather here to celebrate April 25th? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u91	Thank you, sir. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u92	I'm going to finish, Mr. President, but I wanted to say this first: on April 25, the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u93	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u94	Stay home! Don't show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u95	On 25 April, the Portuguese did not want to put a nail on their chest and see the Assembly of the Republic celebrating.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u96	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u97	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u98	Today, that issue is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u99	The Portuguese want to embrace their children and grandchildren,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u100	So stay home!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u101	...to defeat this pandemic. That's what they want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u102	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u103	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: 15 days ago, the Liberal Initiative was the only party to vote against the renewal of the state of emergency. It doesn't bother us to be alone. As Fernando Pessoa wrote, « If it is impossible for you to be alone, you were born a slave». We voted against it, because defending restraint measures, as we have done since the first hour and before many, is not the same as defending the state of emergency. We voted against it, because the measures that have worked could have been taken, and many have been taken before the decision of the state of emergency. We voted against this because we do not deal with a strictly political decision to safeguard the State's legal responsibilities. In fact, this state of emergency is not an instrument of combating the epidemic, it is an instrument of legal defense of the State, to the detriment of citizens' rights. And we voted against, above all, because, without justification, several red lines of Portuguese individual rights, such as price control, product rationalization, arbitrary change of contracts, new limits to economic freedom, movement and movement of persons have been exceeded. The decree that has come to us today is more than that. Essentially, it has the same red lines. Some rights of trade union and employers' associations are restored, provided they do not interfere, the article on the release of prisoners is removed and it opens the door, timidly, to the opening of some businesses, although no one sees what we have been claiming for weeks, namely: reliable and open data, a test plan worthy of this name and an effective tracking and surveillance system that is not inspired by the Big Brother of Orwell. It was not yet that they dared to extend the suspension of the right to the protection of personal data to allow georeference tracking and the use of unanonymized data by telecommunication operators, but it is felt that this last attack on individual freedom is being prepared without considering more modern, effective and anonymous alternatives to this contact tracking. The Liberal Initiative will not wait for the fact achieved to say « never» ; to say that freedom, for which so many have fought in the past, deserves someone to fight for it now; to say that freedom is not an acquired gift and has to be defended by those who despise it every day; to say that freedom is not exchanged for a inhuman notion of life without risk, it is not exchanged for a plate of lenses called « security».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that a society that does not mobilize, does not get excited, does not join together to defend freedom is a society that has fallen asleep and forgotten of the essentials.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u106	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u107	The Liberal Initiative will again vote against the renewal of the state of emergency, because someone has to remind the younger ones who love freedom prefers to die standing than to live on their knees.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u108	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u109	Mr. President: The state of emergency has strengthened the social and financial vulnerability of thousands of citizens. I speak of the absolute deprotection to which at this moment thousands of individuals are voted, and I also say that this state of emergency serves almost as a sort of firewall for layoffs. A target which leads, casually, to mass dismissals, a high unemployment rate and absolute disrespect for legislation. I am also talking about the abusive use of layoff and also about informality, particularly of informal workers who are now part of the workers considered essential. Essential, but which, after all, took miserable incomes; essential, but which, after all, lack social recognition; essential, but which, after all, struggle for survival. I would also like to mention that there is another area of informality, that of households. There are homes that are illegal, there are homes that do not have targets, and the State cannot ignore the existence of these entities, and it must also unequivocally support all citizens, whether or not they are in an informal situation. I also speak of citizens who are being targeted by orders of clearance and orders that also come from situations of informality. I'm talking about the families that, within the state of emergency, are living in rooms. In the state of emergency, there are families confined to rooms and many are being cleared. It should be noted that this state of emergency has shown us many inequalities, particularly in terms of the degree of digital exclusion in which thousands of students are at this very moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u110	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u111	Finally, I would like to point out that today I will also vote against the renewal of the state of emergency, precisely because there is an urgent need for an enormous effort to combat inequalities, regardless of the current situation, and there is no need for a state of urgency to join nationally and combat the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u112	You have the floor to close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this point in which the Assembly of the Republic is debating Mr President of the Republic's request for authorization to renew the state of emergency for the second time, it is important to look at the past, but it is, above all, very important to start looking at the future. If this past month has been absolutely decisive in meeting the goal of containing the pandemic without killing the economy, we must now ensure that we will start to revive the economy without letting the pandemic go uncontrollably. On this, we must be honest with ourselves and very frank with the Portuguese, because we know very likely that in less than a year or a year or a half we will not have a vaccine available on the market. This means that we will have to live for a year or a year and a half with the permanent threat of this virus and therefore a risk of pandemic, but we also know that we will not be able to live another year or a year or a half in a state of permanent emergency or continuous containment, so the next 15 days will be decisive in preparing for the year or year and a half that follows, in order to learn how to live safely with this virus. Therefore, the next 15 days will be fundamental so that May may be the month in which, in a gradual, progressive and safe way, we can resume — I will not be able to resume normal life, because this can only have when there is a vaccine — the ability to live in conditions of greater normality with the assurance that the pandemic remains controlled. For this to be possible, first of all, it is essential to give the Portuguese, the citizens, to be able to leave home, but for that confidence to exist, it is essential to meet the following requirement: to make the means of individual protection abundant in the next two weeks which, subjectively, each one of us considers absolutely essential and whose use the health authorities have, in certain circumstances, been recommending. Since the beginning of this week, we have been able to publish — validated by Infarmed and after a very busy work of the Technological Centre for Textile and Clothing Industries — the rules that will allow the massification of Community protective masks on the Portuguese market, as well as the rules that allow the massification of the production of alcoholic gel so that it can be acquired extensively on the Portuguese market. These two conditions are essential for everyone to have access, in safety and with confidence, to personal protection goods. Secondly, we need to have hygiene standards in the workplace, in the public spaces and in particular in public transport. This is the greatest logistical difficulty we face and to which we have to answer. We need to manage this response from the demand side, finding ways to have undiscovered hours and a new organization of work that does not create very strong « peak waves », but we also need to increase the capacity on the supply side, so that everyone can safely return to public transport in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u115	Thirdly, we must have confidence in the robustness that the National Health Service has proved and we must ensure that it will continue to prove this robustness. This means, of course, knowing that we will have the ability to respond, in any circumstances, to the one who will necessarily be the increase in the risk of transmission whenever we relieve the containment. In order to do so, we must be assured that we will, from the very outset, have the capacity to respond to needs. We know that, even yesterday, the rate of occupation of third-level intensive care beds was 55%, but this level of robustness is only possible if we continue to be able to contain the pandemic. Keep the pandemic closed or, now, with the new challenge of we can also begin to contain the pandemic with a greater degree of freedom of movement and approximation between us all. The robustness of the National Health Service will have to respond not only to the specific needs of the COVID, but also to the needs that, as we know, have been contained by most of the population in the search for health services, which have avoided and postponed due to the fear that they often have to go to their health center or to their hospital. To regain normality also means to resume the need for all terms access to health care that are absolutely fundamental. Fourthly, we have to define the priorities on which the pace of social compression should be in place. We have already said, and I believe it is shared by all, of the ambition of, during the month of May, we can re-take presence classes, although partial, in the 11th. o and 12. the years of schooling. But we also have a duty to seek the ambition that, during the month of May, we can reopen the day-care centres, which are fundamental to supporting families, to prevent many families from losing their income or having an increased effort when they stay at home on a telework basis. I would very much like that, at least during the period of the beach-campo, pre-school children could live again, because it is very important for their training that they can live with each other and that they can no longer be confined to their family space. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, we have to set an example through the Public Administration, so during the month of May we will have to start re-establishing the services of face-to-face service in the Public Administration services and also ending the suspension of procedural deadlines and procedural deadlines. The Public Administration itself must convey the necessary confidence to the citizens that we can resume our normal life pace. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fifthly, we must look at the activities to which the State authority imposed the closure. Of course, for trade, but also for restoration. I think we should be cautious, gradual and start with the small neighborhood trade, the one that brings fewer people together, which requires less travel distance, which best serves the local economy and which best responds to the most immediate needs of the citizens. Then we can move forward to other shops with open doors to the street and finally we will also have to reach the large surfaces. As for the personal care sector, particularly hairdressers or barbers, this is a great challenge. We will have to have specific safety standards for professionals and also for users, but we must respond and be able, during the month of May, to create conditions for us to have these services open again. We must also move forward to the set of activities that are fundamental to life, including cultural equipment. We must start with those who have fixed lotion and marked places, in order to allow them to reopen with the necessary social distance and distance, even if it can be demanded, as in public transport or in schools, the use of Community protective masks. We must also look at sports activities and enclosures, as we must look at the whole of other public activities, especially outdoor shows, for which we must be able to create conditions, for example with the standards of distance that the trade unions will ensure in the celebrations of 1. the May and which the Church has promised, and fulfilled, at religious ceremonies. We must bring these standards to culture, because culture cannot continue to be closed waiting for better days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to continue with telework. It's fundamental! It is essential, because we know that the lifting of measures should be gradual and that those who can keep in telework should have greater freedom of movement to take their children to the day care, to use the trade that is opening and the cultural activities that are developing. But it is good that we can still keep in telework, in such a way, to allow the operation of public transport to go as far as possible. We can and must also work with companies to find new forms of worktime organization, in which some will work in the morning and in the evening, in which some will work one week and another week, to free people from domestic confinement and to allow them to resume their conviviality in the workplace, because we know that this is fundamental to the life and psychological health of all. The domestic space is very comfortable, but it cannot be a confined space. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, it is time to start with realism, prudence and coordination, looking at a serious programme for the relaunch of the economy in Europe. And I would like to address a very special word to all workers, to all professionals and entrepreneurs of one of the economic sectors most affected by this crisis at this time and which will surely have more difficulties in recovering at this immediate stage, which is the tourism sector. We know well how much the country depends on tourism and that tourism is not just itself. As I have always said, tourism is an engine for mobilising agriculture, which produces the goods it consumes, is an engine of industry, that the team, is an engine of numerous activities and services that develop around it. And if there will be difficulties in terms of great tourist activity through the external market, because the limitation of borders, surely, will continue to be a serious restriction to the development of tourism activity, there is something absolutely essential and more than ever important to tell the Portuguese: this year, they make a holiday here, because it is here that we help to defend our economy, and our tourism economy is an engine of all economic activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope this is the last time in our life that we are here discussing the decree of an emergency state. In 46 years of democracy and 44 years of life of the Constitution, this was the first time that it was necessary to decree the state of emergency, renew it once and surely renew it a second time. Let's hope it's the last one. I think we can take pride in the way our democracy has experienced the freedom of the Constitution and also apply the authority of the Constitution when it was necessary, within the limit of what is necessary, never more than what is necessary, never more than the right one, never more than the proportional one. And that is a reason for pride and strength on our 25th April. Recalling ourselves in April, we can and should say that, as always, it is in April that we gain our freedom and it is in the final effort that we make in the next 15 days that we will be able to regain the freedom of our lives, and that freedom demands for our lives, for our economy and for our future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u116	As announced recently, we have more than enough quorum to proceed to the immediate vote on the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. Mrs. Members, the draft decree of the President of the Republic renews for the period of 15 days the state of emergency throughout the national territory, allowing necessary measures to be taken to contain the spread of the disease COVID-19, on which Mr President of the Republic has also been heard by the Government, who has given his agreement. Let us therefore vote on the renewal of the state of emergency declaration. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PCP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the ENP and CH.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to the third point of our agenda. I remember the ladies. Members who, by the end of the session, can sign up to use the word in the debate and who, if they want to have access to the set of information that is on the electronic terminals, have to click on «minimize window ». If you click there, see an image of the Hemicycle, but also see other things. We're always learning. In the meantime, I ask Vice-President Antonio Filipe to replace me in the conduct of the work. [[At this moment, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u117	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We will continue our work, moving to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary budgetary procedure following the disease pandemic COVID-19 and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of citation and postal notification in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as the members of the Government have not yet arrived who will be speaking on this point and who will come forward with the proposals of the law, let us take a brief break. [[Pause.]] To submit Lein’s Proposals 24 and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) has the floor Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Stability Programme incorporates macroeconomic assumptions for which, today, there is an extremely high and unprecedented degree of uncertainty. For this reason, we propose to Parliament that the Stability Programme may be presented this year in different forms and possibly different dates, as it is being equationed in several European countries. In the current context, it does not seem appropriate for us to approve for the first time, in April, the Law of the Great Options, the old GOP (Grand Options of the Plan) and the respective multi-annual programming framework. in this exceptional uncertainty, a few months later they would be significantly unbalanced and out of date. For this reason, we propose that this year, the Law of the Great Options and the multi-annual framework be presented in October, at the same time as the presentation of the State Budget for 2021, in fact as has always happened in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u119	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : In view of the current situation, we have no doubt that it is essential to find the necessary budgetary mechanisms to respond to investment needs not only in public health but also in support of the economy. There we will be to find the solutions, which certainly go through a policy of strong public investment, boosting private investment; by planning the economy that guarantees a wager in the productive sectors, recovering sovereignty in certain essential goods; by safeguarding incomes, which are the key to the dynamisation of the internal market and which have not yet recovered the losses of the 2008 crisis; and by giving priority to public services, in particular the National Health Service, which has proved to be the true guarantee of Portuguese health. All these policies require a break with the instruments and mechanisms imposed by the European Union and the euro, which continue to bet on the indebtedness of States to then implement troika-type adjustments, which harm countries such as Portugal, passing the invoice to the back of workers and small entrepreneurs and jeopardizing the public services and the capacity to intervene by States. In the face of this inability of the European Union to respond to the situation we are living in, we must put on the table the use of courageous options that confront these taxes. And what does the government do? Do you call into question these mechanisms, allowing budgetary management to meet the needs that are put in place? Don't! It presents a bill in which the only thing it does is to change the date on which the budgetary programming framework, the Stability Programme, is to be delivered. Does this mean that the Government intends to continue to bind the country to the stability programmes, in the European Semester, to the restrictive budgetary rules? Oh, my God! We will continue to listen to the honourable Members of the European Commission, who, in the repulsive report of 11. the post-troic assessment mission, published on March 6, already in full health crisis, were concerned about the spending of the Portuguese state with wages, pensions and, imagine, with the National Health Service? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u122	In the same report, they revealed concerns about the profitability of the banks! What was needed was to call into question these blackmails, pressures and restrictions imposed by the European Union and the euro. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law submitted by the Government is neither forward nor late. The date is changed, but the Stability Programme continues there, the European Semester continues there, as if nothing was happening in the real world. Good example of what has been the response of the European Union and also of the Portuguese Government to this situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u123	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Government is bringing us a proposal to adapt the budgetary procedure to the constraints caused by the COVID-19 and to postpone the delivery of the Stability Programme for 15 days. This means that the Assembly of the Republic will not have the opportunity to examine and decide on the objectives set by the Government in the Stability Programme before following it to Brussels. The NAP understands that the constraints caused by the COVID pandemic involve changes in budgetary forecasts and greater flexibility, since one month to the other we have passed from a budgetary surplus context to a context in which we are going to live one of the biggest recessions in our history. However, we regret that such flexibility means a weakening and secondaryization of the Assembly of the Republic and its supervisory powers. The pandemic cannot mean unanimity or a suspension of democracy, of the role that each one of us has to play as elected. For this reason, we will be following up on the PSD proposals aimed at safeguarding some of these supervisory powers of the Republic's Assembly and, if they are not approved, we will only appeal to the Government to make an effort to deliver this important document to this House, as soon as possible, so that we can pronounce ourselves on it, even in ways other than those of previous years. We also stress that, in order to deal with the recession that we have before us, the way we stand for cannot be that of austerity and of restrictions to the same as they always do. In the view of the NAP, the Government should not only mobilise the maximum solidarity on the part of the European Union, but also ensure the greatest number of resources, and this is to ensure throughout its work that people are put first rather than the interests of some people. The Government must therefore ensure, in particular, that it will not pay any compensation to the concessionaires of the road PPPs and that it will move towards their renegotiation, that it will not transfer to the New Bank the approximately EUR 850 million that are provided for in the State budget and that, within the framework of the European institutions themselves, it will require a serious fight against tax havens and that countries such as the Netherlands return to Portugal the EUR 236 million that we lose annually in tax leaks. It is necessary, more than ever, that the country should not be pushed into more austerity and that above all they should not be the same as paying the bill of the crisis that comes there. As for the proposed law that the Government brings to us to allow our country's portfolios to continue to provide public service to TTCs with less risk, the same only sins because it is late. However, the NAP, following the recommendations of the DEC and seeking to avoid as much as possible that citizens over 65 years of age or enrolled in risk groups have to leave the street to obtain fundamental products for their health, proposes a change to the Government's proposal to achieve the freeness of all orders from pharmacy or similar establishments that are intended for these citizens who are most exposed to the risk of the COVID-19 pandemic. on this occasion, we cannot fail to greet all the thousands of CTT workers who, in the last month, while the country stopped, have continued to work so that the payment of social reforms and support would not be delayed, so that orders with individual protective materials or medicines could reach those who cannot leave home or so that companies could send their customers the products sold online. And we must point out that, in some cases, this involved a huge personal risk, because we know that not only were there delays, but there was also a delay in the stipulation of a reduction in working hours or even in some circumstances in the protection of infected employees themselves. For these reasons, these workers, like the other essential services workers, deserve all our gratitude and we regret that last week the proposal of the NAP has been dropped...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u125	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u126	I conclude, Mr. President. As I was saying, we regret that last week, the NAP proposal has been dropped, with a 20 % pay supplement to the workers of the TTCs and other essential services. To conclude, we well know that we have a long way forward to defeat the pandemic. We therefore strengthen our feeling of gratitude to all those who are in line with this fight and here we make our contribution to democratic participation, as it is imposed in democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u127	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I think it is obvious that at the moment the concern of the Portuguese Government and the country cannot be the Stability Programme, which in fact exists in a European framework of permanent fiscal suffocation which is not compatible with the day-to-day and much less with the period of crisis we are going through. That is why the question here under consideration should not even be that of the postponement of the Stability Programme, but rather that of its suspension, as well as of the end of the budgetary treaties which have systematically been putting austerity and budgetary discipline, budgetary obsession, in front of all other priorities, and this has never been as obvious as it is now, the public health, the well-being of people, the protection of public services, pension systems or the capacity of countries to respond to the COVID pandemic. The nature of the European Union has never been as exposed as it is now in the management of this crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u129	The concern cannot be that of the European rules, the concern cannot be that of budgetary restraint, the concern must and must be to provide the State with the resources necessary, on the one hand, to maintain the obligations it has already assumed, because there is a State that continues to operate, because there are commitments that continue to apply to citizens, and on the other hand to extend its capacity for action and to meet all the additional costs that come from the necessary intervention in the economy to combat the crisis, which is beginning to spread. We therefore see with great doubt that, instead of expanding the State budget and providing the State with more resources to cope with these additional expenditure, a blanket is always too short from a budget programme to another budget programme. The proposal that the PS here brings us is this: to allow money to be transferred between budget programmes. And the question that we have left is this: which budget programs? What's going to stop being done? What are you going to miss? When the IRHU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana) starts to allocate its money to the COVID pandemic, what housing programs will cease to be developed? It is that the housing crisis remains, despite the pandemic. The needs of other ministries and other areas of intervention remain. What the PS here proposes to us is a blank check to the government. We all understand the need to speed up this budget management, but we have no mechanism to enable us to understand what it is for, how it is controlled and, above all, what is going to go without money. I leave these doubts to the Socialist Party so that you can base your proposal, and also to the government, if you have anything to say about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u130	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carneiro, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u131	H.E. Mr. President, Mr. Members, Ex.mos Sr. Members of the Government : The country is indeed experiencing an absolutely exceptional situation, as has already been said and reiterated, and this exceptional situation has social, economic and budgetary impacts. We have heard, including from international organizations, that the growth of the world product will be impacted by this pandemic, and these impacts, of course, have repercussions in different countries, particularly in Portugal, to the point of some institutions, such as the Banco de Portugal, the Catholic University and even the International Monetary Fund, have already mentioned that most likely our product will fall markedly. And the impacts will be as much as possible as the measures we have to adopt, such as those that have been approved in the Assembly of the Republic, or those resulting from automatic mechanisms, such as the stabilizers of the economy. Of course, we understand that this makes budgetary management difficult. The Social Democratic Party has said and reiterated that it adopts a position of responsibility and collaboration with the Government of Portugal for the benefit of our country. We have a sense of responsibility, we have a critical sense, and we do so with measure, without entering the parliamentary folklore, as we have already had the opportunity to say. The Government submits two proposals, either under the Budget Framework Act or under the postal citations and notifications, which we understand are essential, in particular the second one, because of the necessary social distancing measures for the guarantee of public health. So, what we do is we present two amendments that try to improve the legislative technique and meet those that are the current needs of the country. in this sense, with regard to the Budget Framework Act, we realize that the variations in the macroeconomic variables and the difficulties that they impose on budgetary management justify that we need to simplify either the question of deadlines, or the question of the rules for the presentation of documents to Brussels or the country's budgetary management documents. Therefore, with our proposals, we are making improvements to that end. We also understand this postponement of deadlines because of the pandemic situation, contrary to the postponement of other deadlines, particularly with regard to the implementation of the new Budget Framework Act, and which we have also had the opportunity to discuss here several times, which has been postponed successively, sometimes without very clear reasons. So, as I said, we understand the postponement we are now debating and accompanying-CL. The PSD, in this position, will contribute in collaboration with the Government of Portugal and the Country, maintaining its sense of responsibility and its critical sense of what is presented to this House. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u132	Mr Cecilia Meireles has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government here presents a proposal that postpones the presentation of the update of the Stability Programme and also of the options of the plan. We have nothing against these delays. We realize that we are in a difficult situation and, more importantly, we also realize that, in many cases, we will need to update the projections and plans we make to the new situation that is still developing. We believe, however, that this proposal goes beyond what would be necessary and beyond what would be sensible. Why? First, because the fact that there is a postponement must not prevent Parliament from giving its opinion on the update and, therefore, the CDS will vote in favour of the proposal for an amendment which is tabled here so that Parliament can take a decision before the update is sent to the European bodies. Secondly, because, in the meantime, a proposal from the Socialist Party which I believe would deserve debate, it would be worth an explanation from the PS here. It is that, and I am going directly to the European question that I have heard here, Mr President. Secretary of State and Mr. Members, in defending the interests of Portugal and what is best for the Portuguese, must always consider having an ally at this bench. More: I have heard Mr. Prime Minister, as I have heard some of you. Ladies and gentlemen, to raise the issue of solidarity, and I think that is much more than what is at stake, because, on the European and Portugal issue in Europe, what is above all a European political response. This is not a moral issue, it is a rational issue. When we have a pandemic situation, it is clear that all responses to economic recovery must be considered, thought, and it is clear that monetary policy is one of these responses, as it is being done in several countries in Europe and, for example, in the United States. And it is also clear that, in a space with a common currency, if we want to use monetary policy instruments, they must be considered together. Therefore, from this point of view, the Government will have an ally here. But you will also have a supervisor here, because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our job. So, with regard to effective measures and means, resources, money that is used to implement effective measures, I think that it was necessary for the government to start speaking in truth. And with more Europe or less Europe, with more speech or less speech, there is one thing that is true: the means, resources, money — to be clearer — to carry out the measures must come from somewhere, and, as a general rule, in some way or other, it ends up coming from the taxpayers' pocket. It is therefore this issue that needs to be monitored here in Parliament. I would therefore like the Socialist Party to explain why, by presenting this proposal—and the Government could have chosen to present a supplementary or amending budget, or what it wanted to call it, I think that it is only semantics—it opts to transfer money between programmes. What I ask the Government is whether and when it will bring in a supplementary or amending budget, or what it would like to call it, in the same way, what has happened, for example, in France. And it will not be for the CDS that any action will be taken, but it would ask the Socialist Party whether or not this is a blank check, so that the government, without a amending budget, will do more or less what it understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u134	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government is now presenting two bills here, one of which on the exceptional and temporary regime of the budgetary procedure, which is the main theme of all interventions. This proposal has two objectives. The first objective is that the Stability Programme is not presented for the present time, for obvious reasons and that everyone recognizes. But it is true that the Government will submit this Stability Programme to the Assembly of the Republic, to be discussed and monitored by all parliamentary groups, when the European Commission sets out the new deadline for the presentation of the Stability Programme. Let this doubt be perfectly clear. Another question has to do with the Law of the Great Options, which would have to be handed over until yesterday. Therefore, as we live an exceptional situation, everyone realizes that uncertainties dominate the economic environment not only in Portugal, as in Europe and in the world and that there are no conditions to present a Law of Great Options that does not lose for the reality of here two or three weeks. So I believe that we are all well understood. It has been said here that the government can do so in terms of public expenditure. No, the Government cannot exceed the expenditure ceiling authorized for the State budget by 2020. On the day you do so, you will have to bring here a supplementary budget, which is certainly in the forecast. The PS Parliamentary Group's proposal has only one objective: to increase the flexibility of day-to-day budgetary management to deal with the expenditure responses on COVID-19. The Government is authorized, with the approval of this PS proposal, to go to a expenditure item and withdraw funds necessary to reinforce another expenditure item, but it must be in response to COVID-19, it cannot be for any other purpose. It has to be for COVID-19 response purposes! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u136	I would also like to say the following about these matters related to the multiannual budget programming and, necessarily, with the recovery of our economy: there is a collective effort for financial sustainability of all the measures that have been implemented by the Government and also by Parliament, not only a huge effort of the State but of families and businesses. In the area of businesses, there is also a need to recognise the additional effort of micro and small enterprises. It is important that all of these measures which have been taken are rapidly coming to families and businesses. We defend that protecting income is about protecting jobs. And the lines that have been created, not only from credit to companies, but also from moratoriums to companies, will be nuclear to support the protection of jobs as well. In order for this money to reach businesses quickly, it is crucial that banks eliminate the difficulties of accessing these support lines, as well as that the Banco de Portugal is in a relentless way carrying out its supervisory, regulatory and also monitoring of the activity of banks, banks and the financial system. at this time when our economy is preparing for a revival, obviously with restrictions, with limitations and with great caution, it is time for the European Union and all its institutions to make all the difference. We admit that the Eurogroup meeting was positive, because it reached an agreement. The means available by some entities such as the European Stability Mechanism, the European Investment Bank, the multiannual financial frameworks themselves, the current and the next one, are mobilized for an immediate response and are contained in the Eurogroup agreement. It is therefore now up to the next meeting of the European Council to set up all these instruments to support national economies. This is the huge challenge posed at the next European Council meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u137	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u138	Mr President, I conclude by saying that all these measures, all these instruments that the European Union, its entities and its institutions are mobilising for support to national economies, businesses and families must quickly reach businesses and families...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u140	... and you can never lose sight of the factor of cohesion and convergence, so that Portugal can also recover quickly and walk in social and economic cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u141	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u142	Mr President, it was important to see, for the clarifications given to us now and for the guarantee of the Socialist Party, whether the Stability Programme will still be evaluated by this House before continuing to Brussels. This is fundamental, if not the Assembly loses all the impact and all the interest in making this discussion. Secondly, the proposal presented by the Socialist Party today — therefore, it is important to be informed — provides for a transfer of funds between different programmes, i.e. between different public programmes. I never expected to agree with Mrs Mariana Mortágua, but today I will have to agree. In fact, if they do not explain which programs they will make transfers! ... That, at least, will have to be clear, otherwise, in fact, we have a reformative budget within a proposal, which is not very convenient, it registers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u143	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: It is difficult to estimate the effects of this epidemic on the economic situation, but this brings enormous challenges to the budgetary process. Therefore, we will not impede the changes that are requested to postpone delivery of the Big Options and the Stability Programme. This is quite different in relation to the proposal that the Socialist Party brings here at the last hour, which is really a request for a blank check... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u145	Last minute! This proposal is a genuine blank check on what is or is not transferred, that programmes, regardless of whether, then, the various editorials have tried to connect their scope only to materials of COVID-19. As far as this is concerned, we do not have enough information to be able to make it work. I was making an appeal to the ladies. State Secretaries of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, the Government of Portugal itself, so that, when they present these documents, they will not only remain for the logic of recovering the difficult situation in which we will certainly find ourselves, but that they recognize that Portugal was already, before this epidemic, in a difficult economic situation and that the Budget should once and for all face profound reforms in our economic organization. Only in this way can we make the Portuguese have the opportunities that have not been possible in this Portugal in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u146	I wonder if any Member of Parliament still wants to speak before the government member who will close the debate. [[Pause.]] Not having this indication, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon, has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am very pleased that there is a general understanding that it is important to postpone the delivery of the Big Options Act and, eventually, of the Stability Programme itself in Europe. Certainly, we would never think otherwise and any of the proposals will always be delivered to Parliament. In fact, the proposal we had in mind would always be delivered 10 days before it was delivered to Brussels. There would therefore be no doubt in this respect: it would always be delivered to Parliament for consideration. Another important aspect set out here is the follow-up to the PS proposal on budgetary changes. The request made here is an additional flexibility in this area, as the European Commission has already done within the framework of the European funds and as is being equated, in other countries, for urgent expenditure exclusively within the framework of the COVID, to purchase urgent material such as EPI (individual protection equipment) that the various ministries need and that is being purchased centrally at this stage via the Ministry of Health. Then these purchases feed all Ministries, security forces, the area of justice, prisons. These are materials and equipment that is purchased centrally and internationally and which is then re-assigned to the different ministries, essentially using funds from balances of previous years, not affecting the implementation of the budgets of the ministries themselves, because they are funds that are framed within the overall commitment of expenditure which Parliament has given to the Government. Essentially, then, it is money that results from balances of previous years that the Government is authorized to use, but that are not currently affected by these programmes and that can be mobilised additionally for urgent expenditure in the context of, above all, the acquisition of individual protective equipment, but also of other important equipment in the prevention of the epidemic. In view of the supplementary budget — there will certainly be an additional budget — we are at this stage in assessing macroeconomic programming. at this moment, there is still great uncertainty, but when we have the most stable macroeconomic data and the more stabilized budgetary needs, we will certainly present an additional budget for evaluation in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u148	We have therefore concluded this debate. We shall move on to the voting period, which is the last item on our agenda today. The quorum has already been checked before. Let's start by voting two voting projects, the first being Voting Project No. 210 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS Members ) — De Pesar for the death of Maria de Sousa. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 14, victim of COVID-19, Professor Maria Ángela Brito de Sousa, major name of Portuguese science. Researcher and Professor of Immunology of the Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar, of the University of Porto, Maria de Sousa had a remarkable academic and scientific career, being one of the first Portuguese women to be recognized internationally for their scientific discoveries. Born in Lisbon, in 1939, Maria de Sousa graduated in Medicine in 1963, by the Faculty of Medicine in Lisbon, then began a brilliant career dedicated to scientific research in England, in 1964, as the scholarship of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. In 1967, he left for Scotland, where, in 1972, he graduated from immunology at the University of Glasgow. In 1975, he went to the United States, to Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in New York, to Cornell Medical School in New York, and to Harvard Medical School in Cambridge, Boston. His return to Portugal occurred during the democratic period in 1984. Academics of sound ethical and moral formation, to whom science owes much, of its contribution include fundamental discoveries in the area of immunology, regarding the distribution of T lymphocytes in mammalian lymphoid organs. But Maria de Sousa was also a writer and woman of a huge culture and humanity, who insisted on leaving the academy and hugging the world, visiting museums with her students and discussing the works on display. Not by chance, his last class had as a motto ‘A school without walls’. These dimensions are still reflected in the poem Mary of Sousa wrote a few days before she left, entitled ‘ Love Letter in a Viric Pandemic. ’ throughout his career, Maria de Sousa was the subject of multiple distinctions, such as the Grand Prix Bial de Medicina, in 1995, the Estimuluo Prize to Excellence, in 2004 and the Gold Medal of Scientific Merit, in 2009 both awarded by the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education, and the University of Coimbra Prize 2011. More recently, he received the University of Lisbon Prize 2017. It was also decorated by three Presidents of the Republic : in 1995, by Mário Soares, with the degree of Grand Officer of the Order of Infante D. Henrique ; in 2012, by Aníbal Cavaco Silva, with the degree of Grand Officer of the Military Order of Sant’Iago da Espada ; and in 2016, by Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, with the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Sant’Iago da Espada. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret over the death of Maria de Sousa, paying tribute to the woman of science and culture and exemplary citizen and addressing her family and friends the most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u150	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Vote Project No. 211 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS members ) — Despite the death of Luís Sepúlveda. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Luís Sepúlveda died at 70 years ago on April 16, at the Central University Hospital of Asturias, in Oviedo, after being hospitalized due to COVID-19 disease. Born in Ovalle, Chile, on October 4, 1949, Luís Sepúlveda stood out as a writer, director, router, journalist, political activist and environmentalist. Luís Sepúlveda's literary work has conquered throughout the world the admiration of millions of readers, with the distribution of more than 18 million copies worldwide and their translation into more than 60 languages. The undeniable quality of his work was worth a set of international recognitions, of which stand out the Casa das Américas Prize, in 1970, and the Eduardo Lourenço Prize, in 2016, and award of honorary doctorates caused by the University of Toulon, in 2004, and the University of Urbino, in 2005. Political activism was also one of the brands of Luís Sepúlveda, highlighting his fight against the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, Chile, on behalf of which he suffered a prison sentence for three years and the forced exile of his homeland. In life, Luís Sepúlveda was a certain environmentalist. He was a member and correspondent of Greenpeace, defended a model of sustainable development, the rights of indigenous peoples, the preservation of Amazonia. It has also participated in several collective defence and awareness-raising actions for the importance of prioritising the preservation of the environment. His defense for the "one world we have" is evident in his work The Old that Lia Romances of Love, one of his most important novels, which dedicated to his friend Chico Mendes, Brazilian environmentalist and defender of the protection of Amazonia. In 2017, in the book Live for Someting, which published together with Carlo Petrini and José Mujica, he said that his life was based not only on love for writing, but also on the defense of ethics in politics and ecology, defending that happiness means collective well-being and is something that is only attainable with respect for others and for the environment that surrounds us, from animals to plants. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Luís Sepúlveda, pays tribute to the legacy that has left us and expresses sympathy for his wife, his children and his friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u152	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence in honor of Maria de Sousa and Luís Sepúlveda. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We shall now proceed to the vote on the bills we are discussing today. Let us begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary budgetary procedure following the disease pandemic COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP, CH and IL abstentions.]] The speciality vote on the Bill No 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). Let us begin by voting on Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and the abstentions of the PCP, PEV, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] It is as follows: 1 — Article 33 (2), (4) and (6) shall not apply in 2020. the Budget Framework Act, adopted by Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September 2015 in its current wording, and the Government shall submit to the Assembly the update of the Stability Programme before it is sent to the European Commission, safeguarding the provisions of Article 33 ( 3 ). The Budget Framework Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u153	With this vote, the vote in Article 2 ( 1 ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and CH and abstained from BE, PCP, PEV, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] It is as follows: 2 — Under the previous paragraph, the update of the multiannual budget programming framework is excluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u154	With this vote, Article 2 (2). the proposal of the law is replaced by paragraph 3. Let us therefore vote on Article 2 (2). the proposal for a law, which will be paid as paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the IL and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN.]] It is as follows: Article 2 o - Transfer of exceptional funds from the state of emergency Exceptionally, the Government is authorised to carry out transfers of funds between programmes relating to different basic tasks, during the duration of the measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 and exclusively for expenditure to be carried out in the context of the epidemic situation of COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u155	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u156	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u157	Mr President, it is to announce that the NAP will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u158	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and with abstentions from BE, PCP, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary budgetary procedure following the disease pandemic COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of the citation and postal notification within the scope of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP abstentions.]] We turn to the special vote on the Bill No 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). Let us begin with the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] It is as follows: This Act establishes an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of the citation and postal notification provided for in the procedural and procedural laws and for postal orders delivery services, taking into account the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u159	With this vote, the vote on Article 1. The proposal of the law. We shall vote on a proposal by BE amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] It is as follows: 1 — The collection of the signature in the delivery of registered mail and ordered until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 is ceased.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u160	With this vote, the vote on Article 2 (1) shall also be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]] It is as follows: 2 — The collection of the signature shall be replaced by the verbal identification and collection of the number of the citizen card, or any other appropriate means of identification, by presentation and affixing the date on which the collection was made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u161	With this vote, the vote in Article 2 ( 2 ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall now vote on Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and IL abstentions.]] It is as follows: 4 — In the cases provided for in the previous paragraph, and whatever the procedure or procedure, the act of certification of the occurrence shall be cited or notified, as appropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u162	With this vote, the vote in Article 2 ( 4 ) shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall now vote on Article 2 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD shall follow the addition of Article 2 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] It is as follows: 6 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to citations and notifications made by personal contact.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u163	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL were rejected and votes against the EAP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] It was as follows: Article 2 o -The Exceptional Postal Order Sending Regime 1 — Until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 ceases, postal orders services that integrate the universal service offer and which cumulatively: (a) Have as a pharmacist the place of sale of medicinal products not subject to medical prescription, establishment of medical and orthopedic products, eye, establishment of natural and dietary products or establishment of food for pet animals; and (b) Have as a recipient a person with COVID-19 or infected with SARS-CoV-2, a person for whom the health authority or other health professionals have determined active surveillance, a person older than 65 years, an immunodepressed person, a chronic disease carrier, or a person who, in accordance with the guidelines of the health authority, should be considered as at risk, in particular hypertensives, cardiovascular patients, patients with chronic respiratory disease and patients. 2 — The ICP — National Communications Authority shall carry out and implement the provisions of this Article within five days of the entry into force of this Law and in accordance with the terms laid down in Law No 17 / 2012 of 26 April and Decree-Law No 448 / 99 of 4 November in its current wording.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u164	We now vote in favour of Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It is therefore left to us to proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of citation and postal notification in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u165	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u166	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u167	Mr President, it is to require the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies of the proposed laws now voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-16.u168	Mrs. Members, we therefore vote on the request made orally by Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of Bill Nos 24 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary budgetary procedure following the disease pandemic COVID-19 and 25 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional and temporary regime for the formalities of citation and postal notification in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This will, in fact, be done with other diplomas in the context of the moment we are going through. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will be on Wednesday, 22 April, at 3 p.m. on the agenda, with Mr Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, followed by the preparatory debate of the next European Council, also with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. So our work has been completed for today. I wish all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a good rest of the week and I recommend that they continue to safeguard themselves, as they have done so far. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 7 minutes.]]
