ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. First of all, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Resolution Projects Nos 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the renegotiation of the flows and exceptional situations contained in the Albufeira Convention, which falls to 11. the Commission, and 188 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — For a network of breast milk banks in Portugal and better access to shared alternatives, which falls to 9. the Commission, and Draft Deliberation No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of parliamentary committees' work during the budgetary procedure. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will continue with the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : The State budget for 2020 consolidates the path of progress and achievements for the past four years, because, yes, we continue good policies, policies that allow a significant majority of Portuguese people today to live better today in Portugal, with the replacement of rights, which had been denied to several generations and could compromise futures, with a more able state to intervene and serve the interests of all, that some still want to decrease and devalue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u6	We continue good policies in a country that, although young people continue to experience inequalities, is always unconformed in the fight against social injustice, poverty, precariousness and lack of opportunities and which, instead of turning the future of a generation to whims and policies of cyclical crises in a resigned way, continues to build the economic, political, social stability that young Portuguese people need to build and continue their life projects. Now, when we arrived in 2020, preparing for the next decade, we put the bad memory of a country before 2015 back, with a sense of duty fulfilled by what we have accomplished and confident in what Portuguese society has been and is able to achieve, but presenting a 2020 Budget that corresponds to the feeling of duty that is still lacking, in particular as regards the new generations. This Budget brings good news and good choices to young Portuguese people. It is a choice, it is an unmistakable mark of this Budget to continue to see in public investment and in public service a key to the emancipation of young Portuguese people, because emancipation is to end the factors of inequality, and only in practice can Portuguese youth have the ideal of freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a choice to strengthen public investment in housing, to strengthen programme 1. the law, with more public housing, more affordable incomes, more fair incomes, with a strong impact on younger generations, the most vulnerable, the middle classes, without forgetting the concrete problem of students displaced in this country. This is the first Budget of this Legislation, where also the investment in the National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education, with more and more beds available for our students, will not stay or stay behind and come to stay. This Budget continues to correct past injustices, such as the devastating action on the right in the housing. This budget invests more in better education and better public school, on which, in fact, the vision of the right was and is today very illustrative of the setbacks it advocates, defending the merits of retention, of punishing paths, of obsession with examinations, a vision that could only be more conservative if they proposed the withdrawal of compulsory education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u7	Don't give them any more ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u8	But in this country, it continues to increase the number of students, graduates, teachers, doctors, increases the wager in vocational education and lifelong training, because we need everyone. And in this Parliament there is a budget to continue this journey: a budget that gives more knowledge and science and that asks students less.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u10	It is also an unmistakable choice and mark of this State budget the valorisation of younger people in the labour market and their wage valuation. Low wages, below the expectations and investment they deposit, young people and their families, in their formation, are not without answers in this Budget. The State will set the example by increasing the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), setting the example by IRS ( income tax for natural persons ) Youth. Tax relief for young people entering the labour market in the first three years is one of the most important measures in Portugal to respond directly to the emancipation of young Portuguese people, with direct effects on quality of life. Mrs. Members, I calculate that the parties on the right, here present — both the most liberal and the most conservative — who spend the time crying out against all taxes and against the mythical pope of socialism, who pays the citizen, would like to have had the creativity and political will to conceive a tax relief measure for the new generations entering the labour market. But, in fact, it was the socialists who did, that was the Socialist Party's government that chose and chose to tax the younger ones to a lesser extent, because we know that we are next to those who need incentives at the time of the start of their working life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if we can take these choices today, it is because we have worked hard, too with our partners, so that there is no inevitability, because today we have the freedom — this government and this Parliament have this freedom — to interpret and represent the newest generations, the young people of this country, giving them more choices and more options. I am convinced that this budget makes the right choices and follows options that interest, concern and mobilize young Portuguese people, and can still improve over the next few weeks. In 2020, this is the ambition of the Socialist Party and the Government : we intervene in the problems of Portuguese youth in the present and anticipate future solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u11	Mrs Maria Begonha, Mrs Sofia Matos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, signed up to request clarifications. You have the floor, Mrs. Sofia Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Maria Begonha, in fact, all and all measures to support young people and to allow them to be emancipated are welcome, and I greet the Government for that. However, I do not know whether in 2018 a very substantial number of women from the age of 30 had not had the second child—in fact, the average number of children per woman, in 2018, did not even reach both.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u13	Let the women be emancipated there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u14	Interestingly, what the Government proposes in the State budget regarding the demographic challenge is unique and exclusively for those who already have the second child. Otherwise, see: it provides for the increase of family allowance, but only for the second and third children only; it plans to share the price of day care, but only for those who already have the second child; and finally, it provides for the increase of deductions to the collection, but only from the second dependent. Is it really in support of the birth that the government is talking about? Will it really support the young people that the government is talking about? The honourable Member has also told us about the tax benefits for young people, referring to IRS Young. However, let me tell you, Mrs Younger, this IRS is indeed very young, because the measure only includes young people between the ages of 18 and 26. How will young Members of the Socialist Party's bench stand for young people aged 27, 28, 29 and 30? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u15	In addition to leaving out the largest range of young people in the labour market — in fact, because young people up to 24 or 25 years of age are studying — this measure is uniquely and exclusively useful for young people working on behalf of others, i.e. young people who have a dependent job. Does the Socialist Government really know the ruling country? Does the honourable Member know the percentage of young people who are unemployed in this country? Are you aware of the number of young people working on green receipts because of you, Mrs. Member? [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u16	In short, it seems to me that this is a very poor budget and, in addition to very poor, extremely manipulative, because it seems to offer everything, but only to those who meet the unrealistic requirements that are established by the socialist government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u17	In reply, Mrs Maria Begonha of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u18	Mr President, Madam Member, of course, I thank the questions of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party and the young Members who mentioned understood this State budget well, which continues on the path of recovery — this is the fifth budget we have presented in this regard — after, contrary to what you said, your party has caused a level of young historical unemployment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] contrary to what he said, this budget continues to deepen measures to combat precariousness, continues to deepen measures for the quality of employment, continues to deepen measures for wage recovery and presents a relevant measure — in fact, he hoped that young PSD Members would support it — of direct support for the emancipation of young people, with fiscal relief in the IRS Youth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Sofia Matos.]] Madam Member, we do not forget that the emancipation of young Portuguese people is one of the priorities of this government in the areas of housing, qualifications, employment and mobility. We don't forget! That is why you see in this Budget, which has called 'poor', a total reversal of the policies that you have made in your government for four years and which have caused the greatest crisis this generation has experienced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u19	You can't see it's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u20	Today, he talks about difficulties having the first child, and we agree. That is why this budget has a set of measures to encourage young Portuguese people, before or from 30, to have the routes they want, more supported by qualifications—as it has already noticed, also fall propinas—, more supported by their wage valuation and more supported by being a family. Finally, Madam Member, I want to tell you that this is the first time I have been in this Parliament, so I have never been in opposition. But one day, if you come to be in those circumstances, I hope to find a higher way of opposing than not being satisfied with the advances of my country and generation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u21	Mr Duarte Alves spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The budget proposal we are discussing today, a document of the exclusive responsibility of the PS Government, despite essentially consolidating much of what has been achieved in recent years through the struggle of the workers and the initiative and action of the CFP, does not advance in the necessary response to national problems and does not present a continuity either in the pace or in the expression and scope of the progress made in the budgets of the previous legislation. When, in the last three years, extraordinary increases in pensions have been achieved on the initiative of the CFP, the proposal does not provide for any special increase. When a 10-step replacement path of IRS began in the previous Legislature, reversing the PSD/CDS government tax collection, the Budget proposal does not continue to increase the number of steps and, above all, does not update its limits to the expected inflation rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u24	When it is the Government's own programme which mentions the need for greater progress in the IRS, there is no measure to safeguard that the lowest incomes have a tax relief, nor to ensure — for example, by means of measures such as compulsory inclusion — that capital income is taxed more fairly. When, in previous budgets, we had measures as important for Portuguese as social passes at reduced prices, free school textbooks, reduction of tips, elimination of special payment on account, defrosting careers and 35 hours in the Public Administration, what is new steps in this proposal to advance this coverage and this positive impact on the lives of Portuguese people? There are no new measures with this meaning in the Government's proposal and therefore it is not possible to say that this is the best budget proposal nor even a continuity budget. We're talking about public investment. If we compare the 2020 budget with the 2019 budget, we see that public investment increases only 1, 4 %, which, with the expected inflation, means a stagnation of investment. A public investment stagnation at a time when the budgetary situation would allow for its increase and when the needs are so many that it is not perceived that the Government insists not to invest the money necessary to ensure the solution of the problems today and to guarantee the future of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u26	We're talking about the National Health Service. The end of the subordination is good news for the day-to-day management of health units, but we need to ensure that we don't stay there. It is necessary to ensure that, in addition to putting an end to the subordination, the necessary investments are made for the construction of infrastructures and the modernization of hospital equipment; it is necessary to ensure the hiring of professionals, from the identification of concrete needs, service to the hospital, and not of any other criterion; the Government must carry out, in addition to the intentions expressed in the proposal, the concrete timetable for the end of the moderate fees and its maximum scope. As the CFP has pointed out, there was and there are budgetary margins to respond to the country's economic and social problems. The Government's option, however, is to sacrifice these measures on behalf of the obsession with obtaining a budgetary surplus and submitting to the European Union's taxes and the interests of large capital. It is not ignored the possibility, admitted by the Government, to carry out some steps in the positive direction, in the speciality. With the intervention of the CFP, it is noted that there have been opportunities to advance the increase in pensions, in the sense of the freeness of day care, in the realization of the end of the moderate rates, in the reduction of energy costs, in the increase in social benefits, such as family allowance or unemployment allowance, in the strengthening of the National Health Service and in the creation of the national drug laboratory, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u28	Despite these open possibilities, it is still far from the choices that are required. In the process of speciality that will be opened, the CFP will beat-CL by achieving all the possibilities of advancing towards the defence, replacement and conquest of rights and of responding to the structural problems that the country is facing. With its proposals, with its political initiative and independence, the CFP will support everything that is positive to come true, fighting everything that is negative to impose on the Portuguese people, affirming a course that assumes the value of wages and workers' rights, the value of pensioners' and pensioners' rights and their pensions, the support of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the defence of public services by a developed and sovereign Portugal. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u29	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u30	Mr President, Mr Duarte Alves, we have listened carefully, as we always do. The CFP always emphasises — and it is a fact — that the proposer of this State budget is a minority government of the Socialist Party. It's true! We are very proud of that, we are very proud of what this minority government has been able to do, but we also know that, if we had four years of recovery of income and rights, this was also due to a parliamentary majority who is not only the Socialist Party, who also had the PCP and other parties. We don't forget that! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This reality is important because, for this path we must continue, we cannot count on the right. With regard to the PSD, for example, we still do not know who will win the internal elections, but we already know that you have won the « Montenegro theory », according to which the country may be better and the lives of people are worse. [[PSD protests.]] So with this right we can't count. Of course, who do we have to count on? We must count on the plural left, which will be able to continue this path of recovery of income, rights and progress. in this case, I think it is worth saying, very clearly, Mr: this budget is a progressive budget. It is not fair — and I think that you, in this matter, were not entirely fair — to say that there is nothing new, that there is no progress in this budget. It is because there are advances in social security, there are advances in public investment, there are advances in the valorization of Public Administration, there is advancement in public school, science, higher education. There's progress! We probably have to accept that the advances cannot all happen in the first budget of the legislature, there come more budgets! But the truth is that this is a left-wing budget, and therefore it is a budget that deserves to be the left-wing budget! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a left-wing budget that deserves to be the left-wing budget! Mr President, we do not have any fetishes with budget numbers, what matters is that it is instrumental. And it's instrumental for what? It is instrumental in strengthening employment, creating more jobs, combating unemployment, better employment, better wages, less precariousness and the stronger economy, companies able to pay and better pay for people's work. That is why, to improve people's lives, the Budget is instrumental. This budget is also patriotic—and we know that, for the CFP, this is a very important point—because a less indebted country, a country with greater room for manoeuvre in the international scene is a freer country. We certainly do not have the same understanding of the concept of national sovereignty, but certainly the CFP will agree with the idea that a country that depends less on its international commitments is a more free country, is a more sovereign country. I think we should value that contribution. Mr. Deputies, the PS does not have an absolute majority. And because the CFP has asked and the electorate has given, you are required to continue this path. What I want to ask you is not whether the CFP wants, because we know what you want, but how the CFP intends to contribute so that the left will continue to demonstrate that it is capable of giving political stability, social stability, economic and social progress to the workers and the people of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u32	How does the CFP intend to contribute to this path? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u33	In reply, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u34	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I would like to thank you for your question. In fact, the CFP is proud of the decisive contribution it has made to halt the disastrous action of the PSD/CDS Government. We are proud of very important measures for the Portuguese, some of which I have mentioned in my speech, and which have no parallel in this Budget as regards the degree of response to concrete problems and the return of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u36	For example, we are talking about measures such as free school textbooks, measures such as social pass,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u37	Good example!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u38	... measures such as extraordinary increases in pensions. in this budget, there are no new measures with this scope, with this impact. We are not talking about consolidating what is already approved, but about new measures, which, with this meaning, do not exist in this budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u40	Therefore, when we do not move forward in what is necessary, especially at a time when there are resources for this, we cannot talk about continuity, but we can speak of non-continuity in the face of these advances that have been achieved in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u42	So why do you let the Budget go? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u43	Mr Porfirio Silva, do we see any tax relief measures for all incomes and lower and intermediate incomes? Do we see any measures, in the cross-sectional sense, of increasing salaries in the Public Administration, as in previous budgets, for example, with the increase of food allowance for all employees of the Public Administration? Do we see any measures in this regard? What we see is a practically stagnant public investment for the year 2019. So these are problems that we actually see in this budget. Mr President, with regard to the intervention of the CFP in the specialty process — that was the point of your question — the CFP will act as an intervention over the past few years, independently, with its proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u45	We will put forward proposals to improve and respond to Portuguese problems. That is why the CFP will intervene in the specialty, already presenting a set of proposals that are very relevant to the future of the country on Monday. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u46	Mr Mário Centeno is now registered for an intervention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u47	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, dear colleagues of the Government, Mr. Members: We have started this second day of the debate in general of the State budget reaffirming, before all Portuguese, that the proposal that we present to this House is based on serious and responsible commitments and does not fall back on anything that has already been taken up and voted on by this House in the past four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to what some say, this Budget is no longer the same. This budget continues the consolidation of a course of success, initiated in the previous Parliament, which is now known to Portuguese democracy. Which seemed strange now goes in. This budget is better than previous ones, because Portugal is better and Portuguese are better than in previous years. Towards 2015, there are more EUR 38 billion of wealth produced per year in Portugal. It is an additional EUR 12 billion of wages paid in Portugal compared to 2015. Since then, the accumulated investment growth in real terms has been 28 %, twice as much of the euro area register. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the cumulative growth of exports was 21%, above the growth of world trade. They are official, irrefutable and irrefutable data. These were the two catalysts for economic growth, job creation and income creation in Portugal. Public debt fell from more than 130 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) in 2015 to around 118 % in 2019, and will fall below 100 % at the end of this legislation. The financial system is more robust. Over the past four years, we have confirmed that the "clean output" of the PSD/CDS Government has been, after all, a node.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u48	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u49	We found a solution for Banif ( International Funchal Bank, S.A. ) , a resolution selling the business and preserving jobs ; we recapitalized the General Deposit Box, outside the framework of state aid, and we defined a serious and future strategy; we found a solution for the resolution of the New Bank ; we made the Resolution Fund financially viable ; and we still had to deal with the unsustainable levels of bad credit in several institutions. In 2015, the underpaid credit ratio was almost 18 %. The most recent data from Banco de Portugal point to a level below 8 %, less than half. But let us not deceive ourselves: Portuguese families and companies are the real workers of this success. Portugal is very happy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese families, for their work and for their investment in their children's education; the companies therefore invested, so they exported, for the many jobs they created and for the income they distributed in the form of wages. This remarkable development of the Portuguese economy today allows a State budget as it could never be done before. With the freedom of response in this period to achieve the medium-term objective, Portugal becomes more robust in the face of external risks. This freedom extends to families and businesses that, with confidence in tomorrow, invest in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u51	But without the responsibility it brought us here, we would not have the freedom that allowed us, in four years, to strengthen the National Health Service in more than EUR 4 billion and EUR 600 million, without jeopardising the balance of public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State budget for 2020 provides a strengthening of all social benefits. It's the first time this happens! It is more than EUR 1100 million for social benefits, to reduce inequality and poverty. The State budget for 2020 proposes more public investment. It is EUR 700 million in investment financed by the State budget. The State budget for 2020 consolidates and evolves in the commitment to the Public Administration, with more employment and better wages. More than EUR 720 million for employment and salaries of public servants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget also brings the greatest financial reinforcement of the history of the National Health Service, a reinforcement that will be accompanied by greater accountability of those who manage these resources. It is EUR 941 million that the National Health Service will have at its disposal at the beginning of the year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been recalled yesterday that this is the Budget of the letter 'and'. "E" of balance. We believe that the 2020 budget balance is set at 0,2 % of GDP. Yes, a positive balance of 0, 2 % of GDP, which is synonymous with the credibility of the route. Since 2016, year after year, we have always presented the lowest deficits in democracy and the highest economic growth of the last 20 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What credibility are the criticisms of those who have always waged against these results and who now say that they bet on growth? Budget policy is not a house of betting, it is the identification of priorities, preparation and decision-making. Already this year we will arrive at a positive budget balance, the first of our democratic history. Portugal will finally stop living at the expense of taxes to be paid by future generations. This is a Budget for the younger, this is a Budget for the coming generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Economic 'E'. The development of the Portuguese economy over the past four years is an unparalleled success story in Europe. No other European country has achieved such profound progress in its growth and reduction in its indebtedness. Today, in Europe, we lead the structural consolidation of public accounts with the highest confidence rates, the greatest job creation and the greatest investment growth. Over the past four years, we have invested and had positive external balances. Yes, positive! We saved ourselves from outside, for the first time in the recent history of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] 'E' of stability, financial stability, budgetary stability, but also political and social, which is the most important factor, after all, for investment and, consequently, for economic growth and for the creation of quality employment. But it is also the 'and' budget of companies. The favourable financing conditions of the State were finally shared by companies and were accompanied by tax and administrative simplification measures that encourage investment in business models of Portuguese companies and in the specialization of their human resources. We have more companies, more private initiative, more employment and more income generation. It is also the 'e' budget for employment and wages. In 2015, when I took up my position as Minister of Finance, unemployment reached more than 600 000 Portuguese. Today, they're less than half. 350 000 jobs were created, a record in Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between 2015 and 2019, the remuneration paid increased by 28 %. It was more than EUR 1 billion of wages paid per month. This is only the highest real wage growth in 40 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u53	Finally, this budget is left-wing 'e'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u54	Let's see how this alphabet evolves!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u55	The last 33 years of life in democracy since 1987 have shown that generating deficits and increasing debt, compromising the country's future, is not even left-wing. From the left it is to advance with public policies that combat poverty and exclusion; from the left it is to value public service and, at the same time, private initiative. Therefore, in this budget, we protect the weakest, strengthen the public administration and create incentives for the work of the younger and the investment of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this State budget, we ensure that the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration is valued, which at the beginning of the previous legislation was only €505 per month and now this year is €635 per month. It was a steady and gradual increase, at a responsible pace in the context of job creation. Pensions will be valued in real terms. In 2020, a new path of strengthening the solidarity complement for the elderly is initiated through a gradual increase in the reference value for a value above the poverty threshold, an average increase of around 15 % only in 2020. For all this, besides being the Budget of the 'and', the fifth of this team and, therefore, the fifth letter of the alphabet,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u56	Next letter is f!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u57	... this Budget takes a step towards the future. This is also why the budget of the future 'f', because it bets on young people, renews confidence and stimulates investment and therefore leaves less debt and, therefore, less taxes on future generations. The budgetary responsibility, the sound management of the public accounts, which first gets weird and then gets in, has returned to the Portuguese self-esteem and made our European partners look at Portugal as a responsible model of social inclusion. The State has once again respected the Portuguese and Portuguese people's efforts to finance public services and social policy which the Government will carry out another year, strictly and responsibly managing the public resources available to them through its taxes. The country now deserves a responsible debate. It does not expect negative majority because they are negative. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It does not expect any negative majority to add measures which, because they have opposed political views, would never be understood as financing. It does not expect measures which, by increasing expenditure or reducing taxes or, even worse, by both, place Portugal on the path of rising debt, excessive deficits and more taxes tomorrow. Or measures that alter the budgetary balance, calling into question the credibility of the path followed and the stability and security achieved by the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All this would be sad, if it existed, and that would, yes, be a democratic fraud.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u58	So, and "f" is fado! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u59	Not a fairy, but a burden, especially for future generations. The Portuguese deserve all of us more responsibility. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the time of voting this budget, do not try to be a person. After all, Fernando Pessoa was only one. They do not vote for expenditure measures with a heterony spender and revenue measures with a heterony saver. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the junction of these two heteronyms, only the heteronym in debt would arise, and indebtedness is something that the country does not need today. Fernando Pessoa, who was also an accountant, would appreciate the responsibility of keeping the Budget balanced. And that is the State Budget we present to you. Without retrogression from previous legislation, this is a budget that consolidates progress and translates the reinforcement of numerous legislative initiatives over the past four years. This is the Budget which confirms a path of valuing income, of responsibility for the future, of protection of public services and of strengthening the confidence of Portuguese and confidence in Portugal. And it could not be otherwise, because the Portuguese do not expect less of us, because the Portuguese do not tolerate paths that are not responsible for Portugal, for the Portuguese and for the future of this great nation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u60	Mr Minister, the Bureau records 14 entries of Members for requests for clarification. I was informed that he will respond first to seven and then to the other seven. To initiate requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u61	Mr President, Minister, poetry aside, begins to be a habit : in 2016, it established a deficit of 2, 2 %, remained at 2 % ; in 2017, it was 1, 6 %, remained at 0, 9 % ; in 2018, it established 1 %, remained at 0, 4 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u62	It's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u63	And in these brilliants, it was more than EUR 3000 million in measures which the Minister denied the Assembly of the Republic the opportunity to discuss. So I ask you: is the deficit expected for 2019 of 0, 2 %, what will it be, after all? We're going to find out, within a month or two, that you've already negotiated this Budget with a strike that nobody knew because it wasn't admitted at the right time, what is it when the Budget is being discussed? This is a serious matter, because behind each shine, there is expenditure that has not been executed and, whenever it does, the next year's expenditure will be expected from a lower level. I know that the Minister's concern, and this is very clear, is to present a budget surplus, if possible an surplus that will be suspended a few months later, by surprise of the accounts announced by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ). But it happens that, while the Minister announces a surplus, they are the other ministers who catch up with the train that is missing, with the beating of the security forces that need a wage boost and do not have, with the school crash where it rains, where there are no employees. They are the other ministers who are taking over the surplus that Mr. Minister announces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u65	That is why I say to you, Minister, that this is not the first time that we believe that the failure to implement budgets is poor budgetary management, as we think it is wrong to withdraw autonomy from sectoral ministers to define their own measures and, in their areas, what is more important to do. Another question I wanted to ask you has to do with the New Bank, which, as the Minister said from the rostrum, would never be sold with a public guarantee and which already cost the resolution fund EUR 2000 million. In the State budget, the Government provides EUR 600 million for the New Bank, but the fact is that the Budget also provides that the public accounts allocate EUR 850 million to the Resolution Fund. So I ask you: if you say it's going to be 600 million, why does it allocate EUR 850 million to the Resolution Fund? It is that, unlike other expenditure in other areas, this expenditure of the New Bank is almost always carried out above the forecast. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u66	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u67	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Mário Centeno, I would like to convey to you a much more bitter feeling than the poetry of Person, the feeling that the process of discussing State budgets ends up in many cases because it is a real show-off. This is because we see that the government is asking for spending commitments that it knows that it will not, in practice, execute because it will resort to the famous captivitys, to the vetoes of drawers and to proper forgetfulness. This was the case in the 2019 Budget, in which, on a proposal from the NAP, the Government was required to hire 25 Portuguese Gestal Language Interpreters for Emergency Episodes in the National Health Service. Remembers and requests from the NAP were not missing during the year! Despite being an important measure and having no relevant budgetary impact, it has not changed from paper and during the year 2019 no competitive procedure has been opened. Mr Finance Minister, can you explain to us, and to the deaf community, why has the government not complied with this budget provision? Is it with captivating in inclusion that you want to reach the budget surplus by 2020 and make a shine in Brussels? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u68	Mr Alvaro Almeida has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Minister for Finance, the Minister here presented a successful framework, in his opinion, and that, in fact, explains a few things. One of the things your opinion explains is that, in this budget, there are no measures that increase economic growth, because the Minister is satisfied with the growth that we have of 1.9%, which, by chance, of all cohesion countries, is the only one that is below 2 %. And why do I quote the cohesion countries? Because as an economist, the Minister will know that the principle of convergence determines that countries with lower per capita GDP grow faster than countries with higher per capita GDP. As a result, Portugal has only 78 % of the per capita GDP of the European Union should increase much more than the European Union average. More than that: since Portugal has the third GDP per capita lower than the euro area, it should have the third highest growth rate in the euro area, but it has the tenth. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u70	Therefore, for the PSD, this is not a growth success; on the contrary, it is a reason to be worried. The PSD therefore advocated a set of growth promotion measures that do not exist in this Budget. And the proof that there is no such thing as that, between the scenario of invariant policies, that is, a scenario in which nothing is done, and the scenario of this Budget, growth is practically the same, that is, the measures of this Budget do not affect economic growth at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u72	This, for the PSD, is a mistake and is compromising the future, because it is from the growth that the problems of Portuguese people solve. The second point I would like to leave is that the surplus « and » in reality is not a surplus « and», because this afternoon what we are going to vote on is a set of maps that generate a deficit in public accounts of EUR 2010 million in government accounts — and I am not questioning these accounts — and this deficit, in public accounts, also corresponds to a deficit of EUR 57 million in government accounts. Finally, Mr. Minister, I feel like I've taken the country to bankruptcy! [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u73	Nodoa is the Socialist Party of José Socrates to have ruled the country so that Portugal should resort to the troika. That's, yeah, it's a knot! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u74	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has now the floor of the Liberal Initiative... [[Pause.]] Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u75	First, the progressives and then the liberals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of State and Finance, I will quote the Government's Programme: « (...) continued-CL will increase the progressiveity of the IRS as a corollary to the tax distributive aspect. » This is in the Government Programme. First question: how does this Budget increase the progressiveity of IRS? With what heteronymous is that this measure, which was in the Government's Programme, disappeared from the State budget proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u77	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u78	... an Budget which interrupts the increase in the number of steps initiated in the previous Parliament, which updates the below levels of inflation expected by the Government itself by 2020 and which does not find mechanisms to ensure tax relief to lower incomes, in particular through the minimum of existence? I quote again the Government's Programme: « Walk towards the inclusion of the various types of income within IRS, eliminating the differences between rates ». Compulsory inclusion—another word started by 'e' which could be in the State budget—is a measure of more basic justice to ensure that capital income is not benefited from the same amount of labour income. But, Mr Minister, tell me one measure, one single measure, which is in this budget for the application of compulsory inclusion. I would say that the Government's programme is for four years, but, Minister, this is the first budget of the Parliament, the first budget of a new political context and therefore should at least give signs of initiation in these matters. On public investment, during this debate, we have often heard the Government say that the problem of failure to implement public investment is conditional on public procurement and is in the problems of desert competitions. I ask you whether these delays and problems do not result from budgetary restrictions on the launch of tenders and management of public treasury in accordance with the Brussels tax? And even assuming that the problem is competitions, if so, what leads you to believe this year will be different? How can the report claim that public investment will rise 18, 1 % if, when we compare the 2020 budget with the 2019 budget, it increases only 1, 4 %, i.e. in the light of inflation, we are speaking practically of a stagnation of public investment? How can this increase be justified? Public investment levels have not yet reached at least half of the levels in 2010. We can say that public investment has been the adjustment variable that the government has used for the accelerated reduction of the deficit, an option that, in many cases, will lead to higher costs in the future, leaving a heavy inheritance for future generations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u79	It is very difficult to discuss public investment without having a map such as the PIDDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ), which no longer exists in the PSD / CDS government, and which allowed to propose and monitor the evolution and execution of investments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u81	As long as we don't have a map with that information, we're discussing it empty. But the challenge remains, in the name of transparency: to deliver to the Assembly of the Republic an information map specifying all investments — investment, project, project, council — so that we can fulfil the function of monitoring government investment action, which is very important when we are discussing the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u82	You have the floor now, yes, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister of Finance, inspired by your quote, perhaps a freudian lapse of this great appropriation of liberalism Fernando Pessoa,... [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u84	... I wanted to ask you three questions, one about consistency, one about one minute and another about one incidence, in this case a tax incidence. Before being a politician in 2011, Mr. Minister said in an interview the following: « The State pays much more than the private to those with low qualifications and cannot attract good frames, because it does not pay them enough. This distorts everything. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr President, what does this Budget contain to correct this distortion? With regard to the details yesterday, Mr Prime Minister described the EUR 590 million that are going around as a 0, 6 % of the total public expenditure and then prided on the IRS to go down, for young people and families with babies up to 3 years, EUR 50 million, on the IRC to go down 70 million and on the total impact on direct taxes of this budget measures being EUR 72 million, representing 0, 13 % of the total taxes (without contributions) raised. So I can understand that this is a fifth minute, i.e. the importance that the government attaches to these matters is a fifth minute, which says everything about the importance that the government attaches to these matters. Finally, a question about tax incidence. And we are going back to the subject most debated in this budget debate, which is the tax burden. I would therefore like you to explain to me, please, how it is possible that this budget foresees EUR 1800 million for the increase in tax revenue — it is not a contribution — i.e. 3, 4 % for what is planned to close 2019. If nominal GDP does not grow more than 2, 92 % — between real GDP and 1 % inflation — how does the tax burden not rise, Minister? But if you prefer to use the expression « tax effort », which you so often like to use to not speak of « tax burden », I tell you that if you weigh the Portuguese tax burden on the Portuguese per capita GDP, we are not in the middle of the table, we are, at the end of the table, the fifth country with the highest tax effort and the second country with the highest tax effort in the euro area. This is the reality of numbers. Mr Minister, tell me if this is a process, a journey, a path that we will continue to travel to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u85	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u86	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members, Mr Minister for Finance, yesterday Mr Prime Minister has classified this Budget as heir and successor to the four who preceded it, meaning that he shares with those his merits, consolidates them and makes them progress. It is also thanks to them that the Portuguese have strengthened their confidence in this Prime Minister, in this government, and it is right to recognize him, too. With better wages and pensions, employment will continue to grow in 2020, and Portugal will continue to converge with Europe, growing above the euro area average. Let me therefore point out, within the continuity, the uneditism of this Budget and its meaning. Portugal will continue in 2020, for the fifth consecutive year, the downward trajectory of its public debt as a percentage of GDP. in this trajectory, for the first time since the conquest of democracy, our public accounts will not be defective. The relevance of this positive balance must be underlined not only because it will allow for a faster reduction in our debt but above all because it is not achieved by sacrificing economic growth but, on the contrary, by guaranteeing it. The reduction in public debt, it is important to say - it means, in time, a budgetary margin gain for future generations - and the Prime Minister yesterday, and well, he referred to the issue of intergenerational solidarity reflected in this budget - and immediately means a reduction in the cost of financing public debt. to those who maintain that this reduction is indifferent to the production of this result, the reality here is to deny them. Thanks to the budgetary policy pursued by this government and the expectations raised by it, Portugal, which, in 2016, bore largely higher interest rates, twice as much as those of Italy, pays around half of them today. It was around EUR 2000 million less in interest compared to 2014. Portugal is today among the six countries in the south of the euro area, which is financed at lower interest rates. As Mr Minister said, Portugal can, for the first time this week, face a possible slowdown in the European economy without automatically entering the excessive deficit procedure. This is a freedom that we have gained, and we have all gained, in order to give continuity to what we have conquered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I ask of you, Minister, is that I explain to the Portuguese to what extent this freedom, which is responsible for the country, will allow us to continue to build, in 2020, a more socially just Portugal, because, for us, the Socialist Party, the promotion of social cohesion is not only an indeclinable function of the State, but it is also a condition of its legitimacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u87	Even in this first round, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira of the Free.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u88	My compliments to Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and others. Members of the Government and of the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister for Finance, I would like to begin by saying that obviously there has been a huge investment by the Executive, particularly in the last budget, in consolidation and budgetary stabilization. It is exactly a huge history of budgetary success, but a Republic is not necessarily a multinational. This will obviously require an objective approach and measures, especially investment in intergenerational solidarity, social solidarity and regional solidarity. My question is: what will you do with the budget surplus? Will it increase the budget for the environment and climate action? Will it provide the 600 000 € that are still necessary for investment in the fight against corruption? Or will you use this budget surplus to value wages?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u89	To answer this set of seven questions, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Glitterete is the great victory of the Portuguese economy, is the great victory of the labour market in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only this allowed the budgetary results to have fulfilled all our objectives, for the first time in the history of Portuguese democracy, for four consecutive times in the history of Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The implementation of the primary current expenditure reaches, in the years in which these figures are already known, i.e. by 2018, 99 % or higher values of primary current expenditure, national accounts in the State budget and budgetary implementation in the State General Account. We have always been accused of being optimistic in our macroeconomic scenarios, year after year. It was not because of lack of realism that these accounts were made, but because, in fact, the Portuguese economy beat records year after year. Interest savings, which in fact finances the growth of primary current expenditure and investment in the Public Administration in Portugal, assumed over these four years EUR 2000 million, which was the differential between the payment of interest that was anticipated in the State budget and the implementation. You know why? Because Portugal gained credibility, the rating of the Portuguese Republic was consecutively high by all rating agencies and today we pay less interest than Italy, less interest than Spain... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and we have the greatest reduction in the interest differential ever recorded in Portugal. This is the great success, this is the only brilliant thing we have to talk about. The New Bank is not a budgetary matter like the others, as you know. Capital injections in the New Bank are the responsibility of the Resolution Fund, the Resolution Fund financed by the Portuguese financial system, and thus will be until all the debts of the Portuguese financial system are returned to the State budget. I sincerely hope that this day will be near and that we will not see ourselves again in this situation, which is obviously a disturbing situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. André Silva, there are no captivations in health, i.e. the National Health Service has no captivations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u91	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u92	The question before me is dealt with at the level of hospital centres, with, at the moment, contracting and contractualization through the association of interpreters. This is a more flexible view in providing this service to the population, but surely, in the continuation of the development of the National Health Service activity, this situation will deserve attention. On economic growth, Mr Alvaro Almeida always talks about the cohesion countries, but he forgets something absolutely crucial, which is the fact that the cohesion countries he talks about have debt levels that are one third of the Portuguese debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u93	And why?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u94	These countries have positive contributions from public consumption to growth and Portugal at this stage does not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u95	That's not why!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u96	These countries have increased taxes in recent years and Portugal has reduced them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Member, the growth of the Portuguese economy is a truly unique success in the world,... [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ... because it is not possible for you to ignore the difficulty of a country growing at the same time as reducing debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to believe that you pay this tribute to businesses, to Portuguese families, for at the same time you have reduced your indebtedness and invested twice as much in the growth of euro area investment as we have grown above the euro area average. Mr President, it is not even worth continuing to play with growth accounting, because growing with the level of indebtedness Portugal has is a unique success in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, the progressiveity of the IRS was the result of a series of measures taken during the last legislature. The measures taken in this State budget contribute to this end, both the measure for children and for young people. Believe that's exactly what happens. In 2021, as it is in the Government Programme, we will resume the debate on steps changes in the IRS to support the middle class and to reduce taxes paid by the middle class in Portugal. That is the sequence we have in the Government Programme and we will certainly be here to do so. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the way to appreciate merit in the Public Administration is through the thawing of the system of progressions and promotions in the Public Administration. That is the way we have to do and in which we must continue to insist, valuing merit. That is exactly what we did in 2018 and this has a budgetary impact in 2021 of EUR 520 million. The fact that you are referring to is, in fact, a mechanism for estimating the balance in national accounts. In fact, it is a healthy mechanism that exists in all countries, which has always been used in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u97	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u98	... always, in all budgets, one after the other. And it is a conservative forecasting mechanism of public expenditure, something which, in fact, should please you and do not leave you concerned. On the tax burden, the Bank of Portugal, the INE, the OECD, the ECB and the European Commission have studies showing that in the last four years the tax effort, the impact of tax policy measures on tax revenue has been reduced by this revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, all studies show that. So we are going to maintain this trajectory, the decisions we made in 2020 are further reducing this fiscal effort. It's honest to say that if you want more, it's honest. It is honest to say that you could lower other taxes or do things differently. What's not honest is saying there was an increase in taxes. It is not honest, because this has not been done in Portugal in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, the reduction of public debt is good news. I think we are probably about to have an additional good news, which is the possibility of the nominal public debt already reduced by 2019. We will wait for the results of the statistics to conclude exactly that. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, wages in Portugal increased by 28 % in four years while the inflation rate increased by 3 %. It is a huge increase, never seen in more than 40 years in wages in Portugal. The surplus that we generate today in the Public Administration, and which we plan for 2020, is also the result of this success, of the return that the economy and the labour market give to Portuguese families and their businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u99	We're going into the second round of clarification requests. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u100	Mr President, Minister for Finance, you cannot take a step longer than your leg. I don't think this expression belongs to Fernando Pessoa and I don't know who the author is, but I know who resurrected him. Mr Minister, I may even feel a little uncomfortable when discussing accounts and numbers with you, because you are a specialist in this matter, but I have many doubts about certain measurements you are making. I would like to explain: in response to those who believe that this State budget could go further in wages, in reforms and in public investment, the Minister says that no step can be taken more than the leg. But in my measurements, while the government intends to give, in this State budget, 0, 2 centimeters per leg remain. So it seems to me that the step could actually be bigger. It is therefore difficult for the Minister to add another « e » to explain to his collection and explain why he has said that there can be no greater step than the leg when we are faced with a budgetary situation that points to a surplus of 0, 2 %. Mr President, I do not think that the Portuguese generally understood this measure very well either. Turning to another subject, the question of fiscal justice was discussed here, although the Minister did not refer to the reasons. That's what I wanted to know. As you should estimate, we have looked very closely at both the Government Programme and the State Budget and, when we tried to compare the two documents, we realize that there are issues which, as part of the Government Programme, did not deserve any reference in the State Budget documents. of these matters, at least two relate to fiscal justice. I am referring, on the one hand, to the issue of compulsory income inclusion and, on the other, to the emphasis on the progressive nature of the IRS, in particular by introducing or increasing the number of steps. Now, in the State Budget, there is nothing on the envelope and the steps continue to be the same as they were before. I would like to know, Minister, what were the reasons why the Government did not consider these two important measures in terms of fiscal justice by 2020, which I recall is part of the Government Programme. I know that the Government Programme is for legislation, but if they are in the Government Programme, it is certainly because the Government considers them to be positive. And if they are positive it becomes more difficult to understand the reasons why the government left them out of 2020. That is why I would ask why the Government should stop these measures which we also consider to be important. Mr. Minister has already said recently that they would be 2021, but why would it be only 2021? Finally, Mr Minister, making your debut now in environmental areas, since you have finally inherited the asbestos paste, I wonder if this is what we are going to have this serious problem — which is not only environmental, is also a public health problem — completely solved. I would also like to ask you, Minister, whether you think the measures and instruments provided for in the State budget are sufficient to answer this question which is of great concern to the Portuguese people. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u101	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u102	Mr President, Minister for Finance, has told us here about the various 'e' of this Budget, but I think you have forgotten one, which was the 'e' of praise, in your case of self-reliance, because in fact that is what we have heard most in your speech. Even Fernando Pessoa Mr. Minister of Finance called for self-declaration. If your speech was on the tax burden and on increases in the tax burden, in fact, Mr Minister could be self-declared, but as it was not, as was a speech on the Budget, I do not think it is justified. Since you talked about the savings you're going to have with interest, I'd like to get a guarantee from you and throw a challenge. Mr President, during the past parliamentary term, he has saved about EUR 2000 million in interest, but without having to account for four years, if he looks at what will increase the tax revenue from 2019 to this year, he also has almost EUR 2000 million, that is to say, EUR 1799 million at more taxes charged to Portuguese. I'm going to give you an example of where the Portuguese pocket is feeling this increase in taxes: if a Portuguese was to supply a deposit with 50 liters of gas oil on January 1, 2016, it would spend 51, 70 €; if it did the same supply on January 1, 2020, it would spend 69, 70 €. Given that the price of oil is rising and given that it can continue to increase, given international instability, what I ask you, Minister, is whether the Government, if the price of oil continues to increase, is available to revise the tax on petroleum products, ensuring that Portuguese are no longer harmed than they already are. And now I ask you whether you will be the Minister to implement this budget until the end, which is also an important issue. I put a second question on public investment, because the Minister said there would be a big bet on public investment, as he had, indeed, existed. I would like to confirm whether the public investment data indicate that in 2019 the total public investment expenditure was EUR 194 million below what remained in 2015, even though it was the highest of the four years of the previous legislation. Finally, Mr Minister, I cannot remain silent when classified as « nodoa » — I understood the reference you made to « clean exit », I saw in some social communication — the CDS-PP / PSD Government. I must tell you, because Mr. Minister is a Minister of the Socialist Party and a Government of the Socialist Party, that "nodoa" is to leave debts for children, grandchildren and great-grandparents to pay ; "nodoa" were the public-private road partnerships that went to this country by governments of the Socialist Party, and God knows how one day we will be able to pay them; "nodoa" were the festivals and the luxurious works of the School Park, without knowing how there would be money to pay them; "nodoa" was to make an airport without knowing if there would be planes to land in it. That, Mr Minister, was a 'nodoa', a real 'nodoa'! And with regard to this « nodoa», no one here in this House, despite being a « nodoa» with the signature of the Socialist Party, said that you were responsible. Therefore, Mr Minister, you can rewrite the story every time you want, because in fact, there is a government in this country that, fortunately, has taken the troika out of here and has brought Portugal out of this protégétorate. This was the Government of the CDS-PP and PSD, and with great pride. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u103	To ask for clarification, you have the floor, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u104	Mr President, Minister for Finance, although he used a letter to identify this budget. The arrival suggests that it be a Budget with the letters 'n' and 'a' because it is the Budget in which no one believes. And I'm telling you why no one believes it, Minister. Because the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support states that the budget proposal provides for an increase of 25 % of the amount to be rationed to the head in the form of captivating instruments. Is that a lie, too, Minister? The European Commission says we will have record taxes in Portugal. Is that a lie, too, Minister? Even the former Socialist Party Member Paulo Trigo Pereira came today to say that this surplus is a lie and that it is wrong to say that the Budget has a surplus. Two, one : or all are lying here — the European Commission, the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support, the former Members of the Socialist Party — or it is Mr Minister who is misleading the country in relation to the Budget, taxes, etc. I ask you another question, very directly, Minister. I don't know if it usually supplies the car, but there's one thing the Portuguese know, with all the rounds we can do here. The Portuguese know that gas oil and gasoline are much more expensive. So it is better to assume this now than then: is it true that we have a record tax level on fuels? Is it true that we will have record taxes on fuels in 2020? More: is it not true that we will have a record tax on consumption and also on vehicles, particularly on the single traffic tax? It's just that the Portuguese have to know whether it's true or not! And if it is true, Mr Minister — I remember that Mr. Prime Minister, who is next to you, once had a debate on the election for the leader of the Socialist Party, with the then leader Antonio José Seguro, who I think will be welcome and even with good memory of the Socialist Party, in which he said «God free me one day to have to be thus increased the tax burden» and « God free me one day to be responsible for a terrible increase in the tax burden on the Portuguese» — do you know what I would do? Give me up!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u105	Your resignation is accepted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u106	I think it's good advice to take into account someone who brings here a budget with the biggest tax burden ever on the Portuguese pocket.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u107	For clarifications, Mr Eduardo Teixeira has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u108	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Minister of Finance, this 2020 budget, according to the Prime Minister yesterday, is your best of the last five years, but our understanding is that it is only one more budget of absolute continuity, still in a climate of absolute austerity. If this is the best budget for the government, it is certainly not for the Portuguese. After so many and so many years to be paid, in a multiplier way, taxes that directly and indirectly affect your work and your income, this budget brings another brutal increase in taxes, which, in the last three years alone, is already adding up to EUR 1740 million, without reducing the burden of public expenditure on GDP, and it is expected that our external dependence will continue to increase further, with imports still growing, to the detriment of exports. This is therefore a maximum and growing tax burden for a minimum public investment in our services, an absolute need for public administration reform that brings efficiency, optimization in transport, safety, health, justice, education and so many sectors of the state. In the real country, Mr Minister, the sacrifice and effort of the Portuguese is crushed by a brutal tax burden, which accumulates records, year after year, in the post-troika. It was 32 % during the troika, it is 35 % in this 2020 budget, it increases 0, 2 % per year in the exact effort of the Portuguese for the supposed budget surplus, which is also estimated to be 0, 2 %. Everything, always, at the expense of more and more taxes. If, for the Portuguese, the news they present is not good, for the economy they are almost full of nothing. We continue to grow, sadly, anaemicly, there are no effective incentive measures for small and medium-sized enterprises that can complement a more robust, competitive economy, prepared for the future. The formula presented to us, Minister, is exactly the same in recent years and does not guarantee that this proposal can be effectively implemented. This has been something that, over the past four years, characterizes it and goes by cutting, adulterating, playing, captivating the amounts entered and budgeted, and, in this House, approved. After that, it does not comply with the components of the budget headings which it approves and may even comply with the final balances of the headings, but simply does not carry out increasing amounts of expenditure, the investment being the main target of these cuts. Mr Minister, it is so legitimate to ask you which part of the investment entered in the Budget will actually, in the end, come true. It is that by 2019, the Budget provided for a public investment growth intention of 48, 4 % and, after 11 months of the year — November data — only managed to achieve in reality 2, 8 % growth, because, in fact, investments are not realized, only by their finger, by means of the captives. Is that how it is, Minister? It is that this captivating model is well demonstrated by a government that manages in arbitrariness, social insensitivity, always at the expense of the reduction of public investments and services that are provided to citizens. It seems the art of illusion: they promise, announce, budget, approve, but do not spend what is necessary and, sadly, always for the reduction of investment, which postpones, postpones and postpones. This is the secret, indeed, of its great secret, so that there is no deficit and for the pseudo-balance of public accounts, with the consequent definition of public services, well in view of all of us. The final question I ask you, Minister, is to know what it will be like in 2020. Will you continue with this illusionist policy of captivity? If so, would it not be better to make a mistake at the end of the document that will be approved, so that, with transparency, you can say everything that will not be realized? Oh, my God! It can be seen that the proposal, this year, may have a further increase of 25 % by means of the captives, adding an amount of expenditure of around EUR 1800 million, to which the amount of the last few years of almost EUR 3000 million is added. thus, I have no doubt that the Minister will remain in history as « Centeno, the captivator », and in this case, as we see it as « Centeno, the bad captivator ». We well know that he likes the nickname of « Ronaldo das Finanzas », but as he has thrown the ball too many times into the bench—the leader of our party still referred to this yesterday—and as he has used quite a lot of illusionism, I don't know whether today you can't even say that the Minister will even be in history as the « Luís de Matos das Finanzas ». This is undoubtedly an illusion budget, fictional. Portugal needs a budget that looks at effective economic growth, with more and better pay, wage valuation, more purchasing power for citizens, less taxes and better public services, but for this, they actually have to change strategy and end austerity, as they so much claim, and in fact have done almost nothing about it. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u109	First of all, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government. We will continue with the requests for clarification to Mr. Minister for Finance. To that end, Mr. Miguel Matos, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u110	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, it is interesting to see that from this surplus some like and others dislike, but for the people who elected us, the most important thing seems to me to be how we got it and what it means. It is that we did not get it and we would never get it by sacrificing the Portuguese; we got it by improving its income, relieving its tax burden and strengthening the financing of public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We got it because we recovered trust and because it caused companies to invest and put the economy to grow. This means not only that there is an alternative to austerity, but also that there is an alternative to deficit. [[CH protests.]] This means that we do not have to make any social progress to the mercy of the financial markets, but, for that to last, we have to give sustainability to growth. In addition to the reversals and rests, the last four years have also been about this, on support for capitalisation and qualification in companies, through funds and by tax. It is also explained that Portugal, according to a study published by the European Commission, has been even the third country in Europe that most reduced the effective average rate of IRC between 2015 and 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it reduced not to anyone, by ideology, but on the other hand of investment, particularly within, on the other hand of capitalisation, on the other hand of the wager in innovation. These are the foundations of sustainable growth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u112	... the business competitiveness and the improvement of the standard of living of Portuguese. Here too, this is a continuity budget, which allows companies to deduct more profits, to reinvest more this profit, which reinforces support for innovation, with SIFIDE (Sistema de Incentives Taxal à Investigación e Developpement Entrepreneuraria) and with Patent Box, which extends the reduced rate of IRC to smaller and medium-sized enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Although the right does not admit it, four years of convergence and the investment increasing the double of Europe prove that this strategy has worked and will continue to work. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u113	So, Minister, I ask you: with these measures, what future can we expect from this growth strategy and certain accounts?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u114	You have the floor to request clarification from Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u115	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Minister of State and Finance, I would like to ask you to clarify the situation in the interior and in the rural world. For the CFP, the State Budget is an opportunity to combat territorial inequalities. This fight ensures with quality public services and for all, it ensures with public investment, that it must have a structural role in the economic development of the country, promoting territorial cohesion and eliminating regional asymmetries. This investment was often promised and often postponed, as shown by the consequences of recent floods in the Lower World region, which could have been mitigated if successive governments had listened to the various proposals that the CFP has brought—and even approved—to this House and which have been continually ignored. Mr Minister, it is undeniable that it has been the political options of the PS and PSD/CDS governments that have made the poorest regions increasingly poor, where opportunities to ensure a decent life for the population are increasingly rare. For the CFP, contribute to effective territorial cohesion and to the development of regions at economic, social, cultural and environmental level which, from the State budget, require policies which, from the outset, guarantee: full use of Community funds, ensuring positive discrimination in the territories where such discrimination is justified; public responses in the social functions of the State, in particular in the areas of health, education, housing, justice and security throughout the country; in agricultural and forestry plans, the exploitation of family farms and productions which guarantee the human occupation of the territory; on the economic level, the rupture with the sole market logic in the allocation and location of resources; the valorization of the industrial transformation of the regional raw material in the region where it is produced; and the recovery of extinct fragesias, according to the will of the people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u116	Mr Minister, we need a budget which has as its criterion the answer to the problems of the country rather than the satisfaction of the European Union's taxes. The CFP therefore rejects the PS Government's option to sacrifice public investment, in particular in the territories of the interior and the rural world, with the aim of reducing the deficit in an accelerated way and achieving budgetary surpluses. I ask you how many public services will be reopened inside, Minister? What is the budget devoted to achieving the status of family farming? What public investments are guaranteed in the regions of the interior and the rural world? What support is being given to the establishment of populations in disadvantaged regions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u117	You have the floor to make the last request for clarification to Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u118	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Finance, the State has an obligation to accompany the efforts of families and businesses to de-independence, de-alalvantage. And this effort has been made over the past few years by this government. So when we see that public debt, despite coming down year after year, remains the greatest threat to the sustainability of our economy, it would be completely wrong, it would be tragic to pretend that this is not one of the greatest problems we have for future generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u120	The external credibility that the Government has built in recent years, as a result of the good policies that have allowed the country to grow above the European average, to create 350 000 jobs, to reduce poverty and to increase, since 2016, the income of families has been offset by the credit that those who buy public debt have begun to give more and more, year after year, to our country. This saved about EUR 2000 million in public debt interest compared to 2015. In order for the Portuguese that hear us to be aware of the reality and weight of public debt charges in the State Budget, it is appropriate to say that when the PSD/CDS government ceased to function the public debt charges weighed both in the Budget and in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u122	This speaks well of the priorities of the previous government. It is true that the equal amount between public debt interest and the budget of the National Health Service at the time meant that public debt interest had to be drastically reduced. And this decrease of EUR 2000 million was entirely channelled to strengthen public investment, which has been realized year after year, particularly in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This means that the consolidation of public accounts, the end of the budget deficit, the reduction of public debt and the reduction of interest have been made without sacrificing public investment. This is the great truth of budgetary governance over the past five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right went on to say that the devil was in the deficit, that the devil was in the high public debt, that the devil was in the interest of the public debt, that they were raised every year in the State budget, so now only needed to hear from the right which, after all, the devil is in the budgetary surplus, is in the fight against public debt and is in this reduced ratio of public debt interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u123	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u124	As far as the tax burden is concerned, yesterday I had the opportunity to try to unravel this speech on the right. Between 2011 and 2015, the tax burden on labour income rose sharply in Portugal. In addition, Portugal was the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) which increased the tax burden on labour income in the time of the previous PSD Government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u125	Why? Oh, my God! Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u126	And in 2018, Portugal was one of the countries that most reduced the tax burden on labour income within the OECD. What does that mean, Minister? The General Account of the State of 2018 has a framework that reflects the evolution of tax expenditure with IRS. In 2015, the deductions made by families in IRS amounted to EUR 514 million. By the end of 2018, Portuguese families deducted around EUR 1200 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an impressive number, but it means that all the measures taken by the previous government, which are now being continued in the State Budget for 2020, within IRS, have ensured tax progressiveity and increased family income. The question I put to you, Minister, is whether or not it is true that this path, this path of consolidation of public accounts, end of deficit, reduction of public debt, is being made without sacrificing public investment, which grows every year, because of the State budget every year more money goes out for public investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u127	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u128	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Ferreira, the Government's programme has entered the Socialist Party's electoral programme from the outset—that the review of the steps of the IRS would be carried out in 2021. So for the year, surely we will be here, relying on your support for this measure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have a legislative horizon to work and we will certainly do it together. As far as I am concerned, asbestos is concerned, there is a programme which has EUR 20 million budgeted in 2020 to deal with this issue, which, as you well know, is a public health problem. The only compliment I gave, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, was to the Portuguese. It was a compliment to the Portuguese, because the only brilliantness that exists in the last four years is the immense success of the economy, of the labour market, in Portugal. The Parliamentary Group to which Mrs Deputy belongs in the previous Parliament requested a study to UTAO (Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) on fuel taxation. This study concluded that the factor that makes fuel prices move most in Portugal is not tax, but rather the price of raw materials. [[Protests by Members of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystals and Cecilia Meireles.]] I don't know why I never mention this study. The truth is that we have developed mobility programmes, these mobility programmes are funded by the carbon rate and that is the way we want to continue. Mr. André Ventura, we have a proper budget. The 25 % that you refer to are not captivating instruments. So the direct answer to that question is: no. The different comments that you have made are of a different meaning, are contradictory, the sources that you quote do not understand each other. So when you tell me what you like the most, then I will look at exactly that comment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u129	That's what's most original.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u130	Mr. Eduardo Teixeira spoke of the continuation of austerity, raising, at last, the different paradoxes in which the PSD bench, throughout the previous Legislation, lived and in which it seems to continue to live in this Legislation. But I'm going to focus on public investment, even because there are several of you. Members who also mentioned this. In terms of the rate of execution of the budgeted public investment, this legislation is far from the previous one. In the previous legislation, the percentage of public investment not made was always higher than the rates of this legislation. [[PSD protests.]] We have 24 % not achieved in 2012 and 23 % in 2013.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u131	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u132	The last closed figures, which are 2018, show that the public investment was made by 87 % of the budgeted value. This is the reality of public investment, this is the investment that we must take into account. I would not like to miss the opportunity to remember very close and very dear budgets of the PSD bank today, such as for example the City Hall of Porto : in 2012 the investment budget was made by 16 % and was about 30 % of the entire budget to be carried out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u133	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u134	Mr. Miguel Matos, the vision we have for the Portuguese economy is balanced and sustainable growth. The truth is that the external balance of the Portuguese accounts was positive in all the years of the previous legislation. The net external debt of the Portuguese economy, contrary to what we heard yesterday—because it is not true— fell 17, 2 percentage points during the last legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This way is to continue. And it can only continue if there are conditions of financing — those that the State, today, enjoys and are shared with companies — and if there is investment. Investment in Portugal increases twice as much as it grows in the euro area. We have every reason to be optimistic about the future of Portugal. On the issue of territorial cohesion, and certainly on the scale which Mr João Dias puts, we have extended the measures to support businesses in the interior, through the IRC of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing a tax rate of 12, 5 %, and that is the way we will maintain in the future. We have the greatest concern about public debt, private debt and the indebtedness of the Portuguese economy. The way we have to go with the budgetary results we have is to reduce public debt. This is the greatest and best investment we can make for future generations: the reduction of taxes in the future, which is what young people are asking the government today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u135	What about gas oil? Does it increase or not increase?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u136	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u137	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u138	Madam President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u139	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u140	Madam President, the Minister for Finance, in a strange way, to justify your low investment, has been saying that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u141	Mr President, this is not an appeal to the Bureau, but a comment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u142	Madam President, I ask you to let me finish the sentence. Mr. Minister of Finance said that in the City Hall of Porto, the investment in 2012 was about 16 %. Well, that's completely false...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u143	Please make the request, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u144	Madam President, if I may, since the Minister has no document proving this low investment, I would ask the Bureau to circulate in this House the budgetary implementation of the City Council of Porto in the years 2011, 2012 and 2013. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u145	Until we finally have access to the information!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u146	Let's continue with the interventions. To that end, Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we use this second day of debate to clarify a fiction that was reproduced yesterday, both on the right and by the Socialist Party: the fiction that this is a continuity budget. It tells us right this is a Continuity Budget because it increases taxes on people. It's fake! If the right had another argument, an argument which would have been, in order to participate in this debate, I would have already realized that it is almost contradictory to see PSD and CDS, responsible for the biggest tax loop ever, and their supporters of this colossal increase in taxes, such as Mr André Ventura, trying to convince the country that budgets that have reduced the IRS to all workers, which have reduced the IRC to small businesses, the VAT of culture and restoration, the special payment on account and that have increased the minimum of existence have been, after all, budgets to increase taxes! It is true to say, even, that the right has short and intermittent contacts with reality. And we know that, in such cases, the notion of continuity may be confused and even compromised. I now leave a note to the new speakers on the right in this debate: we can only ask them to take up their programme. But I doubt very much that Mr Ventura will come to propose — and I quote these points of his programme — "the privatization of universities, the extinction of the Ministry of Education with the passage from heritage to privates, the dual privatization of health checks. » I also refer to the reduction of wages, employers' contributions to social security and the costs of dismissal. I did not hear the Liberal Initiative Member from yesterday propose here the privatisation of the General Deposit Box. How can these parties openly face one country and offer private services for whom to pay and public charity for all others? How can these parties admit that your program is more precarious? How will they announce to the country that spending on teaching cheques, health checks, day-care checks and housing checks are actually a system of income paid by all taxpayers to private to vamp public services? The right-wing privatization program went underground. The right is ashamed to assume, so the speech summarizes the fiction of the « tax burden ». That's what's going on, let's move on. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Also the PS, in this debate, insisted on the narrative of the continuity of this Budget vis-à-vis the last four years, as if 2019 were 2015, how to conclude an agreement or refuse an agreement was indifferent, how to negotiate or not negotiate a first version of the document was the same thing. And the government tries to tell the country that none of this is important because this is the most advanced budget of the last five years. If there were no parliamentary majority, management would be coming down in spirit to the Assembly of the Republic in the form of a budget! Mr. Prime Minister, imagine that each Budget is a step: in the first Budget it is 1 m; in the second, another 1 m; in the third, again 1 m; in the room, also 1 m; until, in the fifth, finally, it is 10 cm. The fifth budget will be more advanced, but that is why it has not walked any further, nor has it walked long enough, nor has it walked in the right direction. The responsibility of the Left Block is to read the time we live in. In 2015, it was urgent to respond to the crisis, raise wages, pensions and dignity. Today, the country has other challenges: the housing crisis crosses geography and social classes; climate emergencies demand that we change how we move, how we produce and how we conserve energy; aging requires a strengthened National Health Service; precariousness has spread and takes new forms today. And besides all these structural, strategic reforms, it is still necessary to turn to the ships and trains that are missing, to the poverty that persists, to those who need to retire and cannot, to those who need a daycare to leave their children and do not have it. That's the deal we want. Mr Mário Centeno, who is not in the Chamber, will soon find himself, look at Europe around him. The greatest risk to the sustainability of public accounts, for our future, is economic stagnation, is the lack of transformation and productive growth, which we need to generate income, to ensure jobs and wages. Mr Draghi, who was President of the European Central Bank, called to him three days ago a « trap » which can only be avoided by « a stronger budgetary policy » now that interest is negative, not tomorrow, on behalf of the budgetary surpluses they sing. You're right. The budget surplus is not a victory for the Portuguese. Growth and employment are a victory; surplus is a wrong political choice. The surplus is not a priority, it is a meaningless obsession. The various types of investment are, yes, a priority, because investment in transport, equipment and infrastructure is economic growth, it is skilled employment, it is future capacity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Housing does not need small measures, it is a structural problem that, in a few years, will throw thousands of people at risk of poverty and exclusion. The price of housing will be the main factor of poverty in Portugal. The SNS, if it does not provide a service that people understand and want to defend, will not resist the fat eye of those who only expect an opportunity to privatize it. Informal caregivers, shift workers, who live in precariousness have the right not to see their expectations postponed. We know — and if we do not know, we have a duty to know — that only a renewed social contract, which strengthens people's confidence in public services and in the redistributive and supportive role of the State, will prevent the extreme right to strike on the ruins of a European Union which is obsessed with the budgetary rules it has devised to divide. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgets cannot be limited to living in the past and not long ago to prepare for the future. Changing a capricious surplus for transformations that people will only feel within a few years is the greatest generosity and the greatest responsibility for the decisions of the present. Measures such as those guaranteed by the Left Block in the negotiation of the last few days — the decline of the tips, which points to everyone's access to higher education on an equal footing; the extension of the solidarity complement for the elderly; the strengthening of the SNS budget for the purchase of medical examination equipment; the full dedication of their professionals; the investment in mental health or the reduction of moderate rates — are decisive, because they respond to real needs and are, at the same time, structuring the country we want to build. And that's why we value them. But we do not look at the 2020 budget with the eyes of 2015 because the demands are today greater. The budgets that have reverted the cuts of the troika have met their objectives. The budget which has an increase of 0, 3 % for public servants and which does not respond to housing does not meet its objectives. The first budgets of this government have been of relief and hope, this is a sign of accommodation and postponement of the changes they count. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Left Block we are not wrong about our responsibility or our mandate. This budget does not meet the requirements of this new cycle and therefore will not have our vote in favour, but we guarantee the country that we will fight to improve it, measure the measure, until the last day of this budgetary procedure. That is the mandate, that is what is required of us, that is what we have always done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u148	The Bureau noted a request for clarification of the speech of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to be made by Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u149	Mrs President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, at the beginning of her speech, made an allusion to the tax burden on labour income, which actually goes down again. It is interesting because, contrary to what happened in the government programme debate, the right of this time did not provide the example of those countries of the European Union that are growing more than Portugal, because it is not only true that these countries have one third of our public debt and the right has found that this would not be a good example, as the tax burden in these countries has grown much more than it has in Portugal in recent years. Therefore, the right came to this debate today as it came yesterday: with good arguments to justify the vote against. The honourable Member also spoke of the public investment in the General Deposit Box, which was crucial for the role of the State in the financial system and also as a lever for our economic growth — the largest Portuguese bank, which the right wanted to privatize and which deteriorated during the years in which it was in the government to then be an easy target for the private. It was therefore a good example, Mrs Deputies, to speak of public investment and the absence of privatization, since this State budget is the fifth that does not include a single privatisation, and this is an important milestone of left-wing governance. The honourable Member also spoke about the strategic objectives of previous governance. These are also the strategic objectives of this governance, which should be a left-wing governance, with progressive measures. So, let's see, Mrs. Member! The Left Block said that by 2020 the National Health Service budget had to be increased by EUR 800 million. Now, the budget of the National Health Service for 2020 will not increase by EUR 800 million, it will increase by EUR 940 million! There's an advance you have to record. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the largest ever budget of the National Health Service! This means that, for the year, Portuguese who use the National Health Service will have more surgeries, more examinations and more services available, that the requalification and rehabilitation of the primary care network will be strengthened and that will advance the works in hospitals, as we all intend. With regard to the fight against poverty, the previous Government was effective. in this social security budget, which rises to about EUR 1100 million, all the most effective social benefits in combating poverty rise in 2020, especially those that are most effective, such as family allowance, the solidarity complement for the elderly and those related to parenthood. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also talk about the income available from families. This income increased in 2016, increased in 2017, increased in 2018, increased in 2019, and will increase by 3, 2 % in 2020. in these four years it has always increased above the European average, not only by the increase in wages — increase in the minimum wage, which will again rise in 2020, and increase in the average wage — but also by the fiscal route – as I have already said, tax deductions in IRS have increased from EUR 570 million in 2015 to around EUR 1200 million at the end of 2018 — and because some crucial measures have been taken to increase the available income of families, Mrs Deputy, as is the case with the single pass or school manuals and now also with the elimination of moderate rates in primary health care. All this means that, for the year, families will have more income available, which will grow above the increase in private consumption, which means that we will return to a period of expansion of savings. Finally, Mrs. Deputy, I mean housing. It was the left that approved the Housing Bases Law; the right was against. It was an important step forward, an important milestone, a strategic goal for several generations and for all the territories of our country. However, in the State budget for 2020, the housing budget is highly strengthened, which means, Mrs Deputy, that all the strategic objectives of the previous legislation are strengthened and are all greatly advanced by 2020. I therefore believe that at this point the Left Block has no way of contesting and will certainly agree, but we realize that it is uncomfortable, because it sees in these measures those measures which I would also like to have presented from the outset and which it has not been able to present. Madam Member, we know that you know this is the best budget in the last five years. This is a left-wing budget, which is making great progress in relation to the measures and good policies that have led to economic growth in our country in recent years, good policies that have had understanding on the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u150	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u151	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, we do not need to invent criticism of the budget proposal. That is why the right is out of the debate, because the increase in tax burden is a fiction. But I would recommend that you not be content with what you have done in the past and not be content with everything that this budget does not hurt, because that is little, it is little for all the problems that we have to solve today. We have health problems. There is a problem of subordination of EUR 800 million. But this is just one of the health problems, another is underfunding. Health needs more money for equipment, needs the exclusivity of doctors, needs more investment. We have problems in the housing. There is a problem of poor dwellings, of extreme lack of housing, which responds with the first right. But there is another problem, which is that of the middle classes they can no longer access to housing. In response to this problem, the Socialist Party said in the campaign that it had a EUR 1000 million programme to invest in housing the affordable income. When we look at this budget and look for the Socialist Party's electoral promise and EUR 1000 million—or EUR 250 million, which would be an annualised version of this EUR 1000 million—, there is no money for housing. There's no word to answer the biggest problem we're going to have in the next decade. There is no word to respond to the greatest challenge that Portugal will have in the next decade and that will throw thousands of people into poverty. This is still a budget that does not have this decisive money to respond to housing, which does not have the decisive money to respond to the problem of transport, which does not have the decisive money to respond to the public services of the future—it is not to maintain, it is to respond to the problem of public services of the future! But it is the budget that has the EUR 600 million or EUR 850 million for the New Bank — I still do not understand well — and it has the EUR 530 million surplus. This is the contradiction that the Socialist Party cannot answer: because it insists on the surplus when there are so many priorities in the country to which we have to respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u152	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Parliament today discusses the fifth State budget proposed by a socialist government led by Prime Minister Antonio Costa. A budget that the Prime Minister himself classifies as being of continuity. If we remember the results of the last four Socialist Budgets, and, above all, if we remember the negative impact they had on the lives of the Portuguese people, this proposal for budgetary continuity is truly the worst that the Government can propose to the country. In the face of a time that requires profound changes and reforms, we have a real, static and illustrious government with its own propaganda. In fact, as the Government says, a Continuity Budget, the Portuguese will continue the deterioration of the National Health Service ( SNS ) in 2020. As a Continuity Budget, the Portuguese will continue to increase lists and wait times for consultations, examinations and surgeries in the SNS in 2020. To be a Continuity Budget, the Portuguese will watch, in 2020, the collapse of emergency services, as happens in the Garcia de Orta Hospitals, Amadora-Sintra, the Alentejo Coastal, Faro, Chaves, Vila Nova de Gaia, Coimbra, among many others. Scenarios of real chaos in the SNS, denounced by the professionals themselves that the Minister does not hear, receives and simply ignores. Professionals who, exhausted and demotivated, feel desperate for the lack of leadership of a government that has no direction, no vision, for health. More: being a Continuity Budget, the debt of the National Health Service to external suppliers will continue to rise. Only in medicine and medical devices, the debt of SNS hospitals exceeded EUR 1300 million last November. A heap of millions that well describes the good accounts of the Socialist Party! We are well aware that socialist doctrine considers that debts are not paid, that this is a child's idea. But sooner or later, in the end, debts end up having to be paid even, and they are always the same, the Portuguese contributors to pay — with interest! — the bill of your government. In short, as this is a Continuity Budget, Portuguese will continue to have less access to health and a worse National Health Service in 2020. Assuming this wrong done and can no longer deny the true disqualification that lives in the SNS, the Prime Minister himself has come to promise that, now, yes, it is now that health will be the jewel of the crown of public investment. In order to support this new history of Carochinha, as described by the government itself, the government first came to speak of a reinforcement in the order of 800 million euros: a number to enchant its questionable Left Block ally, after all, the João Ratão of this budget fable. But, after all, what are those 800 million? EUR 550 million will be used to pay debts — debts that the Socialist Party has irresponsibly left to accumulate, exceeding all reasonable payment deadlines. Only between June and November 2019, the amount of late payments in public hospitals increased EUR 333 million to more than EUR 800 million, which means that more than two thirds of the financial reinforcement is only used to reverse the debt that the government itself has left to accumulate in the last six months. On the other hand, the other EUR 190 million is theoretically allocated to multi-annual investments, which means that by 2020 only part of this amount will eventually be implemented. But this carochinha story continued with the intervention of Minister Centeno, according to which the Government would provide the Ministry of Health with a budget boost of EUR 942 million in 2020. Almost EUR 1000 million, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! If that were the case, we would have an increase of more than 10 %, which would be good news, even if this reinforcement alone did not solve the serious management problems facing the SNS and on which the government does little. The problem is that when we read the State Budget Report for 2020, we found that the total consolidated total expenditure for the Health Programme will be EUR 11 226 million this year, only EUR 303 million more than the value provided for in the 2019 Budget. In other words, if the Budget is met, the total consolidated total expenditure of the Health Programme will increase by only 2, 8 % in 2020 compared with the previous year. Counting inflation, this is a marginal increase. In short, health is one of the least growing areas of governance in the 2020 budget, and this is absolutely unacceptable and inconsistent with the government's own speech. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in terms of the strengthening of the budget for health, the mountain did not have a mouse — following the logic of the history of the carokinha, the mountain had a rat. And when we read the Bill of Nor can we forget that this is not the first, but the fifth, followed by socialist governments. Year after year, the waves of unfulfilled promises, approved by the socialist, communist, blogger and, even, animalist confrere, which should make their authors feel ashamed, truly compared to an unparalleled democratic fraud in our recent history. He was the bet on public health, the improvement of primary, continuous and palliative health care networks, the allocation of family doctor to all Portuguese, the strengthening of autonomy and the improvement of hospital management, the strengthening of public investment, among so many other promises that never saw the light of the day. The reality of the Portuguese, particularly that of the poorest, has nothing to do with this promised land of milk and honey, but rather with the calvary of the long hours of waiting in overcrowded hospital emergencies, or with the long months and years waiting for surgery or for a simple consultation or examination. Promises that are a mirage, as is the case of repeatedly announced new hospitals, so often promised as many adjourned: it is the Hospital de Lisboa Oriental, Évora, Seixal, Sintra, and Madeira, promised for many years but still on the role, enlivened in morbid processes that captivate the health of millions of SNS users. And this not to speak in the new hospitals of the Algarve, of Lamego, of Barcelos, or even of the motherhood of Coimbra, equipment promised at the speed that are being forgotten by the current rulers. This is also why health professionals trust less and less in this government. Work strikes are multiplied, workers' burnout cases are increased and cases of violence against doctors and nurses are made intolerable, to which the government, inexplicably, responds with the creation of a security office that resolves nothing. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for all the reasons I have just mentioned, among many others that could be said, this budget is a fiction. The budget fiction of a government that now promises a family health team for all SNS users but that ended up with the figure of the family nurse, launched by the PSD government. The fiction of a government's budget that once again promises the gradual replacement of recourse to temporary work enterprises but which, compared to 2015, increased the charges with these contracts by about 30 %, having spent more than EUR 100 million on working doctors only in 2018. The fiction of a government's budget that promises digital innovation but thus cuts investment in information technologies that will not have enough money to pay software licenses on SNS computers. The fiction of a Budget that promises to improve the response of the National Health Service but that continues to escape from public-private partnerships such as the devil of the cross, ignoring, irresponsiblely, the efficiency gains this model has brought to the hospital area of the SNS, as the Court of Auditors recently demonstrated it in relation to Vila Franca de Xira Hospital. The fiction of a government that now promises to strengthen 8000 professionals over two years the SNS in another act of unrealistic propaganda. The government has forgotten to say how many professionals have left and how many will continue to leave either for reform or for exhaustion. The Government omits that half of these contracts always happen every year because of the hiring of newly licensed doctors for their boarding schools. And the government destrates the most experienced professionals by considering that they are easily replaced by any newly licensed one. Worse than all this, at the end of 2021, the SNS will continue with a labour force—in terms of working hours—less than that which existed in 2015. The Budget is therefore a fiction, because the promises it carries do not have a link with reality. I therefore agree with the Minister for Finance: this is the Budget of the letter 'e'. The letter 'e' of deception — with the letter 'e', also — which he wants to deceive the Portuguese. The parties that approve this budget, either by vote or by abstention, will be doing so against the interests of the Portuguese people. The Social Democratic Party will, as always, continue to defend the Portuguese right of access to an inclusive and modern health system, ensuring that all citizens care for quality and equity regardless of where they live and the economic conditions they have. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a budget that does not invest in the SNS. As a doctor, I tell you: this is a budget that hurts your health. Therefore, the PSD will also vote against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u154	Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite has a request for clarification from Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mr Baptista Leite, this debate allows us to identify very clearly the two approaches that we can have when we look at the problems and challenges that the SNS faces. The first is to put forward proposals, to adopt and consensualize measures that strengthen the ability to solve these problems, to face these challenges and to meet the needs of Portuguese and Portuguese people through the SNS. The second is the exploitation and instrumentalization of the SNS problems to weaken the SNS, to undermine the Portuguese confidence in the SNS and this is undoubtedly — if there were any doubts! — the PSD option in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS and PSD, it is not because they do not present your proposals in this debate and by summarizing your criticisms of this Budget to vague and generalist chavons that we forget about your proposals in the electoral programme that they presented in the last elections, nor do we forget what they did when they were in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u156	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u157	And it is simple: you open the door and present proposals to encourage health insurance and to weaken the SNS by defending a supposed freedom of choice. Freedom of choice which, if we look at the experience of other countries that have it, we know what it gives. It gives rise to inequalities in access to health and reduces the gains to health. That is certainly not our choice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is tragic in the PSD opposition is that not only does he not have the courage to come to debate and present his alternatives—and the honourable Member has, precisely because he does not do so—as he does not realize that the criticisms he makes are not credible, Mr President. This is in fact the best Health Budget because after four years we will recover from cuts and loss of access to health, which resulted from the last PSD Government, this Budget presents answers and measures for all the problems of the SNS, starting with the one that is fundamental and that contaminates all the difficulties of the SNS, which is its underfinancing, to which we will respond. And if in these four years, Mr. Member, we have recovered the SNS, with more consultations, with more surgeries, with more professionals, with more health gains and with better working conditions for professionals, already with this Budget we have a reinforcement that ensures that we will again have more professionals, more consultations, better integration of care and better management. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if it is unfortunate that the PSD once again does not have the courage to present here its alternatives and its proposals, this is also the best sign that this State Budget is on its way. It's because the PSD knows that the Portuguese defend the National Health Service. This is exactly what this government has done over the past four years, which continues to do decisively in this State budget and will continue to do in the four years of this legislature. When the government does so and when all Portuguese defend the SNS, the PSD does not only have courage as it has no space to be able to present its alternatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u158	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u159	Madam President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I thank you for your question. In fact, I realized that you are in conflict and that you do not know the PSD proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u160	I know, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u161	Don't worry, that doesn't just happen to you, it happens to several colleagues on your bench. But at www.psd.pt you can find the PSD electoral program. [[PSD applause.]] Now, say it's the opposition that's undermining trust in the SNS? Oh, my God! Won't it be months and years of waiting for a consultation or surgery? Oh, my God! Whoever has no money is waiting, because whoever has is pushed by the gentlemen to private. You know, Mrs. Member, when Mr. Prime Minister came to say that health would become the jewel of the crown, when a Republican uses a monarchic reference, I should have mistrusted. And this distrust has been confirmed in the Budget because health does not gain anything from it. What is confirmed by this Budget is that, for the Socialist Party, what is in the SNS is well, it needs nothing more. But it is not us, the opposition, that we disagree; it is the Portuguese, who deserve better health and better governance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u162	Mr Duarte Lambero, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recently Mr. Minister of Finance quoted the management report of the City Hall of Porto, in 2012 when Dr. Rui Rio was president of it. We wanted the Bureau to have this report distributed to all the banks so that they could find the extraordinary execution of 16 % that the City Council of Porto had at that time in capital acquisition costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u164	The Bureau shall record its request, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u165	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u166	Mr Rui Rio, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u167	To call on the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u168	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u169	Madam President, that is to say that I will deliver to the Bureau, as Mr Adam Silva has already mentioned, all the execution rates — of expenditure, revenue, total expenditure and capital expenditure — of the City Hall of Porto, from 2009 to 2013. In fact, I am very interested in seeing what the Secretary of State has asked that it be distributed, because I just needed to arrive now at 2020 and have to stop something like that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u170	Mr President, the Bureau also records your request. For an intervention you now have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : Workers, pensioners and pensioners, unemployed people, children and their families, disabled people need answers that solve specific problems in their lives and do not find them in this Budget. Pensions and reforms, a fundamental and irreplaceable instrument for combating poverty among pensioners and pensioners, must be significantly valued. In the last three years, through the intervention and insistence of the CFP, it has been possible to guarantee three consecutive extraordinary increases in pensions, on a path of replacement of the purchasing power lost by the reformers, and that is the way that needs to be deepened. What is planned in Budget in this area is not acceptable and clearly demonstrates that the pension updating mechanism does not guarantee justice criteria in the annual updating of pensions and reforms. And, yes, it is necessary to strengthen social protection for the elderly who are in poverty, to improve access to social support—and we will not stop fighting for it—but this cannot be an obstacle to the effective recovery of pensions. It is necessary to respond to workers in situations of unemployment, improving their social protection, and to give specific attention to the long-term unemployed, ensuring social protection that is not penalizing. About half of the unemployed do not access social protection benefits in unemployment, 47, 5 % of the unemployed are in poverty — according to 2018 data — and the long-term unemployed are in a situation that they did not choose and under a circumstance of many being considered too old to work, but new to retire. It is also necessary to correct situations of injustice for those who have reformed with gross cuts in their pensions, just as it is necessary to end the sustainability factor. The increase in the average life expectancy, which is a civilizational conquest, cannot be an excuse to reduce or withdraw rights and to impose an increase in the age of reform, which often means working to the limit of its forces, especially for workers such as stone pellets, mines, lavaries and others with professions of great wear and penosity and that even today, when they are reformed, even through a special regime that should exempt them from any kind of penalty, they remain without an important part of their reform due to the factor of sustainability.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u173	And this only happens because the government has not fulfilled its commitment to eliminate the sustainability factor for these painful professions until October 2019. Once again, there is no continuity in this budget law with the measures taken in previous budgets. It is still necessary to take decisive steps towards the universality of family allowance. With the contribution of the CFP, significant progress has been made in strengthening and expanding the family allowance. But this is a path that has to be deepened, leading further, to more children and more families, this indispensable social provision, which is a right of the child, of all children. And families also need to ensure the conditions for the children they wish to have, and this is inseparable from public and free day care. The creation of a free public network of day care centres is an option that can no longer be postponed and its existence will be an element of trust for those who think they have children. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u174	The promotion of birth is also done free of charge in access to day care, but you believe that it is not an excuse to extend or unschedule working hours, because what is also needed is to reduce working hours, ensure decent hours, time to live and live with family.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u176	It is necessary to take the path far further to ensure the right of disabled people to a dignified, autonomous and independent life, which does not run out and goes far beyond the projects of MAVI ( Independent Life Support Model ). The realization of the rights of persons with disabilities requires the State to assume its responsibilities in this area and to ensure the investment and public responses necessary to ensure that the obstacles to which persons with disabilities face daily cease to be. In all these dimensions, the lack of answers on the part of this Budget is profound. The obsession with surpluses, the ties to external taxes and the options to sustain the interests of large economic groups prevent answers to the problems with which workers, pensioners, the unemployed, families, people with disabilities continue to face daily. The CFP will be and will continue to intervene with solutions that strengthen social protection and also mean the rise in the living conditions of workers and the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u177	For an intervention, Mrs. Minister of Health, Marta Temido has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health is the high priority of the proposed State Budget Act for 2020. The total consolidated total expenditure of the budgetary health programme exceeds EUR 11 225 million for the first time, and the initial budget of the National Health Service, financed by tax revenue, increases more than EUR 941 million compared to the 2019 budget, in the further strengthening of the initial budget allocation of its history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the continuity of the path that we started going back there, at a time when Portugal was a different country, at a time when there were more moderate rates for users and more hours of work for health professionals. A path in which SNS expenditure grew between 2015 and 2019, around EUR 1700 million, a path in which the accumulated budget increase in 2020 by 2015 will be EUR 2412 million. But a path in which the strengthening of SNS resources was also accompanied by efforts to improve the efficiency of expenditure, in particular by investing in public health. This proposal for a law is the budgetary reflection of the political choices we have made and of which we do not depart. Policy choices of recovery and economic growth, investment in public services and commitment to a social model that persists in which no one stays behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We heard the Portuguese and those who represent his voice. Therefore, the proposed State Budget Act we present is the instrument of an economic policy in which people are focused, protecting them in what they value most: health. Therefore, we understand well that the enormous effort of investment in the National Health Service requires a government action focused on three vertices: access qualification; motivation of health professionals; and investment in the SNS network. It is that reducing the budget imbalance of the SNS will only make sense if it has practical effect on people's lives, and that requires better management. And the best management has to be sustained in more autonomy, it is true, but also in more demand and responsibility for all management standards. Attacking the underfinancing problem, a governance model of the SNS must be created, in particular of its business sector, the most relevant in terms of expenditure. Building this model and implementing it in the first half is the objective of the Government, in a shared responsibility between Ministries of Finance and Health. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The qualification of access to SNS in the areas of providing adequate care in volume, time and quality is the first focus of action. The Portuguese live longer lives today, but with more diseases and multimorbidities. These factors generate the need for more care, but especially more integration between levels of care and development of new performance models. The qualification of access will touch all these dimensions, starting with primary health care, which will continue to be the main ally of the modernization of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, in 2020, the Government will continue to invest in strengthening the coverage and resolution capacity of primary health care through the allocation of family health teams to more Portuguese, the creation of 30 new Family Health Units ( USF ) and the contractualization of more responses to acute disease and oral health. Because we want primary health care to be the first response of the National Health Service in the lives of people, families and communities, we will eliminate moderate rates in their consultations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to hospital care, government action will focus on the management orientation for access, efficiency and humanization gains. With a focus on improving the programmed activity, the money affects the contractualization with hospitals will increase by €900 million and will focus on increasing the activity of first consultations and surgeries, support for telehealth, encourage decentralized consultations of hospital specialities and the extension of the home hospital programme. In this regard, I stress that we internalized the management of the Hospital de Braga, lacking only to harmonise some remuneration regimes and tables, which were quite different from those that practice today in the Public Administration. With regard to integrated continuous care, the Government will ensure the hiring of 800 new beds and the implementation of the first Day Units and Promotion of Autonomy. With regard to palliative care, it will strengthen and extend existing Community support teams. Even in the context of the qualification of access, a special reference to emphasize the priority given to mental health,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with a view to the completion of the complete implementation of the National Mental Health Plan. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The renewal of the political commitment to the health of Portuguese and the SNS is clear in the proposal for a State Budget, but we well know that the success of this commitment also depends on health professionals, their working conditions, their motivation. They built the SNS in the medical service to the periphery, in maternal-child health, in the reform of primary health care. It is with them that SNS counts every day, in public health units, in health centers, hospitals, in medical emergency, in the Health Line 24, in our homes with home hospitalization. And it's with them that the SNS needs and knows that it can continue to count to implement changes with positive impact on people's lives. The motivation of health professionals is therefore the second vertigo of government action in health. Therefore we will continue to increase the SNS workforce, with more 8400 contracts in 2020 - 2021, with particular attention to the balance of team composition. Therefore, we will improve the payment model of Family Health Units Model B, in order to make performance dynamics more sensitive. And, therefore, we will encourage the organization of hospitals in integrated responsibility centres, with pay conditions associated with internal contractualization of care goals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u179	Sure! I already said that in 2018, in 2019...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u180	The third vertigo of government action is investment in the SNS network. These include investment decisions already taken, such as the construction of Sintra and Seixal neighbourhood hospitals or the New Central Hospital of Alentejo, but also investments already authorized by the Investment Program in the Health Area, approved in 2019, and including-CL- the investments provided for in the SNS Response Improvement Plan, which means about 190 million euros additional for new priorities, such as Phase C of Gaia hospital or Coimbra maternity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Above all, it is intended that investment decisions are based on the rationality of the network and technical justification, and it is also by this way that the quality of the management of the National Health Service will be affirmed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of the State budget proposal for 2020 is important — I would say it is crucial! — for health. It is important for everything that has already been mentioned, but also for what is known to be the influence of social determinants in the state of health of a population — which is not rhetorical — and which is reflected in the health impact of the choices we have made in improving all social benefits, in adequate housing at bearable costs, in improving public school, in effectively democratizing access to higher education, in environmental options. Above all, the adoption of the State Budget proposal for 2020 is important because this will be the first post-approval budget of the new Health Bases Act and this gives us all a special responsibility, i.e. the responsibility to realize that it is not all done, that it will always have to go beyond a state budget to modernise the SNS. After all, as Mr President of the Republic has said recently, in the presentation of compliments to the Government at the time of Christmas, quoting Prof. Maria de Sousa, «the requirement is a sentinel that cannot sleep». Above all, the responsibility here today is to realize that, in budgetary matters too, there are those who vote against strengthening the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u182	Madam Minister, there are 10 entries to make requests for clarification. I ask you how you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u183	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u184	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Health Minister, it is noted that the Minister has not repeated — and well! — the mantra of the best budget for the last five years. I'm glad you didn't repeat it because it's not the best budget in the last five years. A good budget is the one that uses the resources available to solve the problems that affect people day by day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u187	... and this is not that budget because it has, of course, a budget surplus that takes money away from public services and investment and, even in health, announces a number of measures that have already been announced or implemented in previous years and budgets, being content with stagnation of measures in this area. But more than that, if we compare this Budget with the previous one, as regards the bill, which is what really matters, we will see that articles and rules fell in the State Budget for 2019, such as strengthening vacancies for training or investing in new hospitals, from Barcelos to the Algarve, passing through the second phase of Beja. This was recorded in 2019 and is no longer included in the proposal for 2020. There is, of course, an increase in funds that will enable us to combat bribery and that is important. We recognize him. We proposed that it be so. However, by itself, this can only mean that at the beginning of the year money is placed which, in previous years, was placed during the course of the year, meaning no more investment in the National Health Service. It is necessary more than that and it is incomprehensible, in fact, that the Budget, which is subsequent to the approval of the Health Bases Act, does not have an article on the multiannual investment plan, an article on moderate rates, an article on the exclusivity of professionals. This was the minimum of the minimums: a multi-annual plan that guarantees funds for effective investment in the SNS ; a regime that is already beginning to make the rule of exclusivity in the SNS ; a standard that eliminates, by 2020, the moderate rates in all primary health care ; and the implementation of the National Mental Health Plan in 2020. the budget proposal which is submitted by the Government does not contain any of this. It will be now, after the agreement established with the Left Block and this is also important. But this shows, we believe — and this is the question I leave to the Minister — that, after all, the Government's budget is not the best. It should and could have been much better if it had not been strangled by this obsession of the surplus budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u188	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, with regard to health, this Budget is indeed a growth. It is a positive sign that we have recorded, but at the same time it is essentially an increase that serves to deal with the subordination, as has already been said, and that in this sense it is useful to deal with the expenditure already incurred and others that have been taken at 25. the time, with the Left Block, whose financial impact we have not yet known. There is no strike to do more and, above all, there is no guarantee that it will do better, that each euro spent is a euro gained in health care, without waste. In recent years, the CDS has insisted on and put forward proposals — in anticipation of the honourable Member's comment — in this respect of efficiency, because increasing the budget is simply not the solution. To the CDS, although it has this increase, this Budget has no right, credible and efficient choices, and I give some examples. To begin with, the government treats the private sector and the social sector as a necessary evil rather than exploiting this installed capacity as a public service when its management is more efficient than that of the State. So we have a Basics Law that can even serve the SNS but does not serve people and rejects PPPs, which do at least, although paradoxically... Mr Moisés Ferreira, perhaps he did not read the State budget well. In fact, in this Budget the PPP of Cascais is extended for another year, up to 2021, and production is even increased, therefore the money transferred to the PPP of Vila Franca and Loures, whose decision we will know in the coming weeks. The State budget also includes promises of autonomy, as the Minister said here. But, Mrs. Minister, they are the same ones that remained in the drawer in 2018 and 2019. I don't know if you remember the 11 hospitals that were going to have a pilot contract, but that the Minister didn't have a chance to sign, as well as the integrated responsibility centres, that didn't leave the paper either. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Once again, the goal of a family doctor for each Portuguese is to be stated, but she forgets the Minister who remained 600 000 people waiting. in this Budget it is not said what will be done differently to get there, but the Minister knows as well as we just contracted with the private and social sectors, assuming the C models of the USF. Besides, this year's novelty—new for the fourth time, but this time we'll see if it stays or not! — is that the State budget imposes a new tax when there is no more austerity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u190	That's what bothers you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u191	... an extraordinary contribution on medical devices, in a sector to which the State owes, in debt, EUR 180 million, ignoring the impact this will have on these companies, on jobs and, most importantly, on supply to the market. Mr. Minister, apparently, the priority for you is the immediate elimination of moderate rates in primary health care. I ask you: is this really the priority of health in Portugal, Minister? Would it not be more important for you to deal with the reduction of waiting lists, surgeries and consultations? Mrs. Minister, right now, putting the citizen and the taxpayer in the center of the system is ensuring health care in time and time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u193	... minimizing the effort for all those who finance it. So, Minister, my question is very simple and the following: in this budget implementation, what will you put at the centre of the system? Will you put the speech and the political balances or will you put the people, with whom should you really care? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u194	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Health, was in December 2019 that the Government approved the National Health Service Response Improvement Plan, where it identified the needs we all know, assuming it as the first sectoral government priority. on our part, we hoped that this priority would allow health to take off 15% of the general government budget cake, but after all the percentage remains equal to that of 2019. Mr. Minister, please explain to us, then, what is the value of the current debt and how the forecast value in State Budget will be distributed with a view to the depreciation of this same debt. Then, how much remains, then, of this value for improving access and health services to Portuguese and Portuguese? Another issue that we cannot ignore in this debate is that of strengthening human resources specialized in the National Health Service. The daily absence of responses to needs has led to many difficulties on the part of services, limitations of professional quality exercise and various inoperances that affect the dignity of professionals, the quality of services, the health of populations and the finances of the country. More: at the expense of continually trying to respond to daily situations with the necessary quality, many of these professionals present signs of increased wear, which often culminate in burnout. The health of health professionals is essential. It is not possible for the professionals of the National Health Service to care for people without being guaranteed, first of all, their health and dignity conditions. The budget then assumes the hiring of 8400 health professionals, but UTAO (Technical Unit of Budgetary Support) warns that only 4200 professionals and 1000 qualified technicians are defined. Mrs. Minister, where are the other 3200 professionals? Will they be sent back to 2021? But it is not just the hiring of resources and the opening of tenders that we want to talk about. Contractions must, in fact, be appropriate over time and professionals should feel valued and with potential for progress. The autonomy of hospitals in contracts is essential so that specialized human capital that we do not necessarily seek other alternative yields. So, Madam Minister, what would you like to ask, since you have considered the applications for authorization for the professional exercise of doctors abroad as normal, is the following: what incentives do you propose to ensure to these professionals that the working conditions in the public service are, in fact, fair and attractive? Finally, Mrs Minister — and because this is a fundamental issue for the country — Portugal has one of the highest prevalence of mental illness in the European Union, with worrying rates of depression, anxiety rates and a very high consumption of psychopharmaceuticals. The impact of mental illness is greater than that of diabetes, for example, and obviously the financing of this area must be proportional to its prevalence, importance and severity. We have put great emphasis on the implementation of the national mental health plan and the necessary 10 million euros. The Minister, in her speech, noted that she would be available for the same, but, in that document that was presented to us, there are loose ends. What we would like to know is whether, in the field of expertise, the Minister is available to ensure the implementation of this national mental health plan, which, as we all know, has been closed in a drawer for 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u196	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u197	I'm really going to finish, Madam President. Mr. Minister, what I would like to say to you, in conclusion, is that health cannot be treated with quick thinking. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u198	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u199	Madam President, Madam Health Minister, we have heard your speech, but there are many questions that remain unanswered. Is the increase in the National Health Service budget actually going to be invested to increase its response capacity or simply corresponds to the current capacity, which reality shows to be below the needs of the users? How will this increase in the actual strengthening of the National Health Service — and not in the increase in the transfer of resources to private individuals, through the contractualization with private entities for the provision of care — and in the strengthening of public health services to overcome the ruin situations in which many are, including, leading to their temporary closure or referral of patients to other hospitals, of which are the example of the pediatric urgency of Garcia de Orta Hospital, the pediatric urgency of Torres Vedras Hospital or the Alentejan Coastal Hospital? How will this increase in the reduction of waiting times for consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments, the extension of working hours, the replacement of obsolete equipment and the strengthening of primary health care services and valences, which the Minister considered to be central in the National Health Service? We also consider it and they should, in fact, be valued and strengthened in their capacity. It announced the multiannual investment programme of EUR 190 million, but it is important to know in particular what investments are planned for this programme and how will be reflected in the 2020 budget, as the elements available indicate an investment in health of EUR 180 million and much of this money is already committed to other investments according to the data available in the report. On the hiring of 8400 workers, it is important to know what needs are and what the forecast of retirements in the coming years. What measures do you intend to take to prevent the abandonment of the National Health Service by workers who feel demotivated? It is that we do not envision measures of professional, social and remuneration valorization of health workers, of valorization of their careers, fundamental to ensure the quality of health care provided, the possibility of professional development, the realization of research projects, training, and a path towards exclusive dedication. Now, Minister, will you ensure the autonomy of health units in the hiring of workers? If this is not the case, it is hardly worth saying that more will be contracted because the requests for contracts will then be suspended pending the authorization of the members of the Government. Finally, the Government refers to the purpose of setting up the SNS health care system, in particular with regard to metropolitan, regional and institutional emergencies. That's how it's said. Is it the intention of the Government to reduce, merge or concentrate emergency services and their valences? It's just that, if that's the case, this is a retreat. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u200	You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Mariana Silva, for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs. Minister of Health, every day they hear news of the difficulties of the National Health Service. We know of the difficulties of hospitals that need works, the lack of medical material, the long waiting lists for a specialist consultation or the despair of those who expect an operation of an urgent nature, which takes months. We know from the despair of those who are ill and wait hours to be cared for in the emergency service or the desperation of the parents who have to travel several miles to the nearest hospital, where the pediatric service is in operation. We all know that closed services no longer belong only to the interior and to less populated areas. All this is a consequence of the disinvestment of the various governments, which only aimed to degrade the National Health Service and justify the delivery of what is profitable to the insatiable appetite of the private groups operating in the area. But when we talk about National Health Service, we can almost talk about a miracle. It is that, despite the attacks it has suffered, it continues to be an unparalleled reality in most countries of the world, ensuring the whole population — with failures, it is true — the right to health. This is only possible by the action of its professionals, who often work under difficult conditions every day to provide the best care to the populations. from here we send them a sincere word of recognition. Doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians, auxiliary workers and other workers should be praised, because it is to them that the value of the National Health Service is greatly due. Speaking of workers, Mrs Minister, what guarantee does the 8400 professionals that the Government has announced will be hired for the National Health Service mean even the completion of these different vacancies and not the sum of precarious contracts over the years? Will all Portuguese finally have family doctors and nurses? Will more psychologists be hired for health centres, so that mental health no longer be the "poor relative" of the National Health Service? How many will it be? Finally, it is known that climate changes bring old diseases at different times of the year and bring new diseases, especially introduced by insects that are changing their habitats. in this State budget there is much talk about climate change.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u202	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u203	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. How much does the government intend to spend, and with what plan, on this new reality? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u204	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u205	Mr President, Madam Health Minister, first of all, we would like to ask you about something that has apparently remained unanswered from the Minister of Finance to the Prime Minister. It was important to realize whether such a debt of EUR 1, EUR 2 billion to external suppliers, marked in October 2019, will or will not finally start to be paid. We already have the state to impose deadlines on municipal chambers, to impose deadlines on private persons, but when it has to be the State to pay, it does not pay, it pays thousands of days late and does not pay interest! I think that there is no society in the world in which the state sets the example, but when the time comes to pay, it makes everything but the example. I think that whoever is at home and has something to receive from the state can only say that it is indeed a shame a State that demands them but then does not pay them. We would also like to know, at last, where we stand between the Minister of Internal Administration and the Minister of Health. Will there be or will there be no personal defense classes for such doctors and nurses? This is the best proposal the government has for the injured doctors, the injured nurses, etc. Is that what you're talking about? Oh, my God! It's just that we thought... [[Laughs from BE Mariana Mortágua's deputy.]] O, Mrs Deputy, from here on I have already smiled at Mr Prime Minister, calmly, at ease. Be comfortable and do what you understand. That's what you understand. Smile at your will, do what you understand. [[BE's protests.]] Now, what we need to know is this: we have doctors assaulted almost every week. Mrs. Minister devalues a little bit, says they're verbal assaults, but you have to understand this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u207	Mr. President, I will finish. Doctors assaulted, nurses assaulted. What will the government do about it? Will you close your eyes or will you actually invest in the safety of these professionals? It is that giving them lessons of maga krav is certainly not the solution to such a serious problem as the country faces here. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u208	We moved on to the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr. Alberto Machado has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Minister of Health, the State Budget for 2020 determines that the Government intends to gradually replace the use of temporary work enterprises and subcontracting of health professionals by the subcontracting of professionals required to operate health services, a promise that the Government of the Socialist Party has already made in the last budgets and has never met. Worse, on the contrary, the Government of the Socialist Party increased SNS's burden on medical services by more than 30 %, from EUR 80 million in 2015 to EUR 105 million in 2018. It was Mrs. Minister of Health herself who confessed it when, in August last year, and the words are hers, said that "the cancer that is going through the SNS is the provision of services". Now, if this cancer is in the SNS, it is to a large extent the policies developed by this government over the past four years. Will the government even reduce the provision of medical services? Are you going to allow Centeno, the Captivator, to solve this problem? I also ask you about the additional work in the national health system, whose expenditure, according to recent reports, increased from EUR 180 million to EUR 263 million, an increase of 46 % in just three years. As a result of this government management, we have a clear excess of subcontracted health professionals, we have health professionals working in exhaustion, with the aggravating that we are witnessing a no-number of statements of an excuse for the responsibility of hundreds of professionals in the face of unprecedented degradation that this government has inflicted on the SNS through captivity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u210	This budget is of continuity, as Mr President-in-Office said yesterday. We can therefore anticipate that significant part of the budgeted funds will not be executed, as has happened in recent years, leaving the SNS on the brink of collapse. It is budgeted but not executed, and so it deteriorates the one who has already been a SNS of excellence. [[BE's protests.]] It was not the self-sufficient commitment of health professionals, who gave their best in very difficult conditions, and today we would be much worse. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u211	Can we expect your government to do what he hasn't done in the past four years? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u212	Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members, Minister, says the Government that this Budget elects health as a priority. The budget allocation has an increase of about EUR 900 million, but we all know that much of this is to pay for debt. Therefore, it is an achievement to deceive the unwary and the most distracted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u215	The national emergency to strengthen the National Health Service is thus to be complied with. Why? Because the government is subject to the dictatorship of finance and to the protection of Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u216	So vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u217	We must continue to do much more than we have presented here. thus, the SNS (National Health Service ) continues to live very difficult moments and, in many cases, to degrade, to the edge of the rupture. Algarve is one of the most paradigmatic regions where this makes one feel. For example, three years ago, investment was announced at EUR 19 million in this region, but what was invested is not known. The central hospital of the Algarve was promised and, according to a rule that was introduced in the Budget last year, because of the responsibility of the Left Block, and which was approved unanimously, the Government would initiate the procedures for the construction of that hospital. Now, the government has failed and has not done what is wrong with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u218	So how are you going to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u219	This, yes, is a step backwards in relation to the previous budget. This, yes, it's a shame! Mr. Minister, the questions I wanted to leave you are three, in particular. First, what measures does the Government intend to take to place more health professionals and to stop the degradation of the SNS in the Algarve, particularly by hiring more employees to the University Hospital Center of Algarve (CHUA)? On the other hand, of the 19 million that were announced in 2017 to achieve in three years, what was achieved in the CHUA? Finally, will the government begin to implement the procedures for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve this year? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u220	It is the time of Mr João Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u221	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Member of the Government, Minister of Health, we are sure that for solving the problems of the SNS, it is only enough that there is political will and that the Government begins to implement the many measures adopted in this House, on a proposal from the CFP. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you about three concerns. In the case of palliative care, the CFP has defended measures to strengthen it, with the creation of community support teams in palliative care and palliative care units that respond to the needs of the country, but this Budget does not respond to these measures, moreover, does not respond to the needs and possibilities of the country. The fact is that we are discussing a budget proposal which presents a small response to this matter when the country is in great short supply with regard to palliative care. Mr. Minister, palliative care is not second care, as this Budget, in fact, defends. So I ask you: how you want to respond to the needs of palliative care in our Country? Or rather, does it agree with the budget surplus perspective, knowing that, on the other hand, there is a poor population of health care? Mrs. Minister, another concern is related to primary health care. It is known that there are vacancies open by the Ministry of Health, in the contests for the placement of family doctors, who have become somewhat deserted throughout the country, but particularly in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, Alentejo and Algarve. On the other hand, it is possible that in 2020 and 2021 alone more than 900 general and family medicine doctors will retire. How does the Minister guarantee the allocation of a family doctor to all users, with such a way out? What will be the response given by the Minister? Will it be with the allocation of endless lists to each of the family doctors? Finally, with regard to moderate rates, we reaffirm the commitment of always: working to eliminate moderate rates and all obstacles that hinder access to quality, safety and timeliness health care. Mrs. Minister, the moderate rates are unfair, are ineffective and penalize the population. For the PCP, the exemption of moderate rates is the way to its elimination. Therefore, Mrs Minister, I ask you to know whether it is available to permanently eliminate moderate rates, exempting chronic patients from this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u222	Mr Rui Cristina of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Health Minister, I have two very specific questions. Article 169. the proposal for a State Budget Bill promises the following: « In 2020 the Government takes the appropriate measures to achieve the goal that all users have an assigned family health team. » Promises the Government now a family health team for all SNS users. The truth is, in four years, he was unable to give family doctors to these same users, as he promised in the State Budgets of 2018 and 2019. It is a well-evident failure in the more than 650 000 Portuguese people who, last November, had no family doctor. It is appropriate to say: successively renewed promises, successively failed promises! So, Mrs. Minister, I ask you if it's time for the third one. Will you assign the family doctor who promised to give in 2017 to all SNS users in 2020? I have a second question about the construction of a new hospital in the Algarve, which is a great need for the region. Even today, there are half a hundred patients hospitalized without beds available. There aren't even monkeys in the emergency service to put them in the corridors. This is the sad reality in the Algarve! After 14 years, it is appropriate to say: in the Algarve, nothing new! ...The truth is, today, 14 years later, this new hospital is still a mirage for all snakes. Well, Mrs Minister, what I ask you — and I hope you will respond to the algae — is whether the government will actually launch the Algarve hospital, thus fulfilling its electoral promise, or whether it will wait for the next elections to promise again what it did not also do in this legislature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u224	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, starting with reply to Mr Moisés Ferreira, I must say that it is not only about the last five years that this is the best health budget; it is probably about the last 20, which are those that I remember as a health professional when I read and analyzed on the other side. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We therefore believe that we have an economic policy instrument that will enable us to have the necessary framework for what we need to do, which is necessarily much more than what is summarized in the clause in the proposed State budget law. For this reason, some articles that will probably not be so detailed in the proposal that the government has given will not fail to come true. On the other hand, with regard to bills, I am known to be more parca in letters than other entities and other authors. This does not mean that things are not done, it just means that not everything we want to do is exactly described in the budget articles. This is the reality of what is happening with the multi-annual investment plan, what is happening with the moderate rates and even what is happening with regard to the way and ways of encouraging professionals to work in the National Health Service. The multi-annual investment plan will also be implemented following the Health Equipment Charter, which we propose to carry out ; the moderate rates are already accommodated, in terms of reducing associated revenue, in the proposal we make on the financial implementation maps; and the path to full dedication is reflected in how we view the incentives to work in the National Health Service, especially in integrated responsibility centres and in family health units. Therefore, it will be in all of this that we will use the additional EUR 941 million: in strengthening the care activities of the National Health Service, in strengthening the working conditions of the professionals there who perform their activities, in fact betting on the improvement of pay conditions, associated with visible results in the health of Portuguese and Portuguese. I think that's what they expect of us. On the issue raised by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa on the strike to do more and to do better, this strike results in two effects: on the one hand, the reinforcement of EUR 941 million — on the other hand, of EUR 941, 9 million — and on the other hand, of our best management and of our efficiency in management. And, yes, we have several proposals to do more and to do better. They are visible and are well-explained in our budget report and we can discuss them better, at the centre of discussion in the field of expertise. Nor is it said that we refuse the link with the private sector or the social sector to do more for the health of Portuguese. That is what is happening with the dentist, that is what is happening with the continuing care units, that is what is happening with the Community pharmacies. With regard to the question of the extraordinary contribution on the medical device industry, Mrs Deputy, what she is looking at is to feed an innovation fund for the National Health Service. We are all convinced that it is absolutely necessary, as has been demonstrated by the drugs recently attributed by the National Health Service to boys, which was not foreseen in the Budget last year. Regarding the reduction of waiting lists, the guarantees I give you are the guarantees of health professionals. They are the best guarantor of our action program. [[P.S.'s applause.]] His work, his dedication, his commitment guarantee, more than the word of any minister or minister, that the National Health Service is strong and will respond to what the Portuguese expect of him. With regard to the issues put to me by Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP, I would like to say that in November the debt was EUR 840 million. This debt has already been amortised at the end of 2019 by the extraordinary injection of EUR 550 million, and this injection will be reinforced, as already mentioned, by more than EUR 200 million in the first months of this year. I also want to tell you that hiring more professionals is a net contract. We believe that the best way to retain professionals in the National Health Service is not only by means of the remuneration effect, which is always short and that it fades quickly, it is also through better working conditions, incentives to performance, motivating projects. I would also like to stress that exits to abroad stem from requests for cells to work elsewhere, which, in most cases, correspond to situations of professional internships. With regard to mental health, of course, we are fully available to comply, line by line, with the National Mental Health Plan, whose implementation is delayed. It is therefore important to ensure in 2020 the implementation of all its items, from Community responses to acute patients'hospitalizations, including the reformulation of forensic psychiatry units. Regarding the questions that Mrs Paula Santos has asked me about the effective increase in response of the National Health Service and pediatric emergencies, she would like to tell you that everything we have done has been in the direction of the effective increase in the response of the National Health Service and not only of its financial balance. That is why we have not yet been able to prevent a deficit in the National Health Service. We will therefore continue to hire the professionals we need to ensure all the comprehensive and complete answers, where they are necessary, for what we have often resorted to the services — more than we wanted — because this is still a situation that is preferable not to guarantee the opening of services. I would also like to tell you that, in fact, the pediatric emergencies — and all the emergencies — will have to be re-examined in terms of their organisation in 2020, something that professionals also refer to. We are talking about the need for a review of a network that has not been reviewed for several years, the need to respond better to the population, the need to be more efficient in the provision of services, the need to have more quality in the responses. That's not closing services, it's telling the truth. With regard to the questions put by Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecological Party, and to the news she quoted about undesirable situations in the National Health Service, I would like to say that, one day, Mrs and Mrs. Members could also list the positive news of how much happens every day in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You'll see it's not such a hard exercise! I would also like to point out that the 8400 professionals who will be hired will, of course, have contracts without term and for indefinite time and that they will include psychologists and other technicians for multidisciplinary mental health support teams. On the issue which Mr Ventura raised, on the value of debt and interest, I think I have already answered him when I mentioned the reinforcement of EUR 550 million — only the last one — because more EUR 445 million were injected in January and June last year, and the injection forecast of more than EUR 200 million. As for the fake new of the personal defence classes, I do not think we should devalue violence against all health professionals and not just from a particular professional group, and therefore the Ministry of Health cannot align in any comment or measure that does not consider these episodes in due account.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u226	All right! So it's not relevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u227	With regard to the questions put to me by Mr. Alberto Machado on subcontracting, I would like to ask him to read the whole article carefully, because this article that integrates the articulation of the State budget proposal specifically refers to how we intend to overcome the substitution of the subcontracting of companies providing medical services by professionals from staff maps. This process involves a legislative authorization, which, of course, I hope, will be granted and will ensure alternative ways of compensating the penosity of work in urgency. And once again, the guarantee of compliance with what we intend to do lies with health professionals and the assurance that they will not let us get hurt, as well as our management councils. Mr. João Vasconcelos, on the issues you have raised, I must say that we have done everything to strengthen health in the Algarve, both in terms of investment in terms of professionals, and will also be on this line that we will respond to the new hospital in the Algarve. However, I would like to stress that it was not this government that left in the drawer the public-private infrastructure partnership for the construction of the new central hospital in Algarve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] For those who say that we are prejudiced about public-private partnerships, I think it is an important note. Mr. João Dias, palliative care is of course a concern to the action of this government. We therefore have a strategic plan for palliative care, which we are fulfilling point-by-point. Simply, what we believe is the arrival of palliative care to the place where the patients are, regardless of whether they are in a general hospital, in their own home, in an outpatient clinic or in primary health care. Therefore, we are investing above all in team formation and enlargement. With regard to moderate rates, of course I agree. All those who voted in favour of the new Health Bases Law agree with the progressive elimination of rates and therefore we have presented a path that we will begin this year. Finally, Mr Rui Cristina, the allocation of family doctors and family health teams to all Portuguese is a reality of which we have become ever closer. This year we estimate that more than 200 000 Portuguese family health teams will be assigned. It is not an indefinite number, it is a concrete number behind what we present here and we also hope that new Algarve University Hospital Center will cease to be a mirage in terms of infrastructure. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the seconds I have to make a comment before everyone: one often speaks about stories about the National Health Service, about stories about Snow White, about Carochinha's stories.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u228	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u229	I would like to tell you that the best story, about the National Health Service, is the story of success that he himself is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the story of success that lies in what is the work of hundreds of thousands of health professionals who make it work every day and users who have successful stories, as it is also reported, often in our social communication. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u230	Mr André Coelho Lima of the PSD Parliamentary Group is included for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: I come to address the issue of security — not only, but also — because it did not deserve a single word from the Prime Minister in yesterday's extensive intervention. Let's start with facts. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, third in the Global Peace Index. Portugal has since 2017 a Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for the Security Forces and Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration with an amount of around 450 million euros. Two framework notes to start, to base rhetoric and political debate on facts and not on their denial, and still to save the PS and government work, in anticipation of their arguments. Having said this, if Portugal is statistically the safest countries in the world, they suggest VV. For example, should we refrain from discussing this subject? If Portugal has EUR 153 million budgeted for investment in security by 2020, should we just applaud? Let us see: Portugal is indeed one of the safest countries in the world, but it has 60% of its teams in conditions of significant degradation, widely documented in newspapers, with images of demasal and lack of hygiene that we have to be ashamed of. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, but it has its defended forces with defence material out of time and only one third of the effectives have access to ballistic protection vests. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, but it has to watch the uncomfortable to see widely reported that some of the materials used in the exercise of functions are even acquired by the agents themselves. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, but is subject to the international turmoil of being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights to pay compensation to a presidential officer because of the 'degrading and inhumane conditions' of the Portuguese chains. Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, but has a deficit of cash with operational functions in the GNR around 5000 operations. And if we pay attention only to today's news, and without forgetting that Portugal is one of the safest countries in the world, it covers Jornal I, today, that «There are PSP teams that only have one agent» and PSP and GNR announced yesterday that they will protest on a monthly basis because, and I quote, «all police are currently revolted and unhappy» with the performance of this government. Indeed, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I could hardly imagine the greatest image of success! [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am not going to speak in substantive security and apparent security. We're a safe country, point! Apparently and substantially. But this cannot make us resign from our obligations to safeguard a duty of sovereignty and cannot allow us not to deal with the dignity that our professionals deserve, which are the agents of the State, which are the first image of the decency and respectability that the State must give of itself. Let us see: if Portugal is from the safest countries in the world, why does the Government present a multiannual plan for admission to security forces and services? And why does the government commit itself to a programme of infrastructure renewal and investment in equipment? Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you take these priorities, it is because they are necessary. If they are necessary, it is because, after all, we all agree that the statistical indices should not satisfy us. And if these measures are necessary and are taken, then they have to be fulfilled and they have to be executed. And now, if they are not fulfilled and executed, as they have not been, it is our function, as opposition parties, to criticize their non-compliance and demand their fulfillment. It seems to me that it's simple. And this even though Portugal was the safest country in the world! Therefore, even though the government constantly throws us in numbers, it is important to analyze the difference between the stated intention and the accomplished intention. This discussion takes place within the budgetary framework, where we face a level of budgetary implementation in the period 2017 - 2021 of 38 % in individual protective equipment, 32 % in armament, 29 % in equipment for specialized functions, 28 % in equipment for support of operational activity and 18 % in infrastructure. Who's wrong, after all? Will it be wrong for police officers who announced yesterday a genuine roadshow of monthly events to effectively invest what is announced in the budget office or will it be wrong for the government, who announces and propagates investments that do not reach even half its level of execution? I have an answer, but I'd rather be the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, each one of you is giving the answer for itself. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u232	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been spoken in continuity today and, if there is any area in which one can speak in continuity in the State budget, it is in culture, unfortunately. Continuity in the insufficiency of funds, in the lack of public service structure, in the lack of staff in the various bodies of culture and in the sea — in a sea of problems which call into question the fulfilment of the constitutional right of creation and cultural use, of genuine cultural democratization. This is a budget of vague intentions, indigent means and non-existent substantive actions with regard to culture. It's a budget that doesn't come out of the cake strain. There are zero words for the urgent need to hire staff for all public bodies of culture, but, in particular, for museums, palaces, monuments, archaeological sites, for services dependent on the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage. What money is available for urgent works in museums? What money exists for the acquisition of works for their collections? What multi-annual programme of means and investments for the rehabilitation, preservation and dynamisation of classified heritage is this, which is referred to in the State Budget Report? What financial envelope is going to be made with? Whether or not the government is committed to not tearing down the heritage, what is it from all of us, delivering it to exploitation, to profit, to private greed? What strategic vision exists for the Artistic Production Agency, the OPART, for the CNB (National Dance Company), for the orchestra, for the chorus, for the missing or degraded facilities? What investment is it actually going to be made in the National Library of Portugal? Where will the holes of the arts support contests be solved, which have left a number of companies and creators in a terrible situation? And we cannot forget the results, that so much controversy has brought about and that they are not yet solved. How will these issues be resolved in the future? What will or will not be changed in the model and by what means will artistic creation be changed? Is that why we will finally build a public service of culture at the level of artistic creation as well? There is still no funding for cinema, which remains dependent only on charging fees. Where is the investment that Cinemateca and its ANIM need? Where are the workers that this body urgently needs? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on a proposal from the CFP were resumed in the past legislation the literary creation grants. Why do they remain so limited, why do they not grow in number of beneficiaries and areas covered? There's so much that can be done! We do not need a Culture Continuity Budget, we need a Breakdown Budget, because a democracy can only be complete with the right of everyone to all culture. [[PCP applause.]] This is only possible with the construction of a true public service, with the technical, material, financial means, with the workers, with the rights. On a proposal from the CFP, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution pointing out the importance of reaching 1 % of the State budget for culture. This State budget does not comply with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u234	How are you going to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u235	Bring together all the transversal activities and say that singing here is not good and is not serious. The Ministry of Culture, with this Budget, does not have 2 %—as the government has already spoken sometimes—, it does not have 1 %, it does not have half a percent to guide, organize and structure cultural policy. The path of combating obscurantism, barbarism, civilizational retrogression passes through the field of ideas, goes through culture. Yes, we want 1 % for culture already in this budget! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u236	I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : The last four years have been years of very important steps towards respect for the rights of persons with disabilities, starting with respect for their self-determination. What we are doing in this legislature is what could be called a genuine "male test" of the effective situation of the rights of disabled people in Portugal and, with it, a test of the effective human rights situation in general in our country. But this budget is deeply disappointing for the country and it is deeply disappointing for people with disabilities, who demand that we respect their rights and take concrete steps, and not merely intentions, so that this respect will be sustained. in this brief intervention, I would like to highlight six concrete expressions of what I have just told you. First: the national strategy for the promotion of the rights of persons with disabilities, the so-called Agenda 20 - 24. The Budget report states that in 2020 the implementation of the Agenda will begin when the report of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities points to April 2017. In the parliamentary debates, however, it was announced that the strategy was completed or in the imminentness of being. But now, in the budget report, it is said that the strategy is finally completed and to the point of beginning. The question I ask is: when will we actually count on this strategy, with this Programme 20 - 24, which is an aggregate programme for the rights of people with disabilities, to be implemented? And more than that, what is the possibility or degree of involvement of people with disabilities and their representative organisations in the design of this strategy and its implementation, which, in fact, is made by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? Second expression: independent life. The budget report is deeply disappointing here. See: says the Budget report that will strengthen the Model of Support for Independent Life ( MAVI ) in force, through monitoring and evaluation of pilot projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u238	Reinforce!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u239	Well, implementing or strengthening an agenda through monitoring and evaluation of pilot projects is simply not to say anything about it. But it adds the report on the Budget that during 2020 the Government will strengthen the pilot projects of an Independent Life Support Model, with a view to extending the number of hours available to these people. Great! This means that if the Government now recognizes that the number of hours provided to these people is insufficient, it is precisely necessary to follow what was a warning that the Left Block has always done in the sense that the restriction of funding to the Independent Life Support Model is responsible for that insufficient number of hours. The truth is that, looking at the practical practice that exists right now, we have found several self-support centres, various CAVIs, in which the number of hours of support for people with disabilities is absolutely insufficient. So be the Government very welcome in this matter. There are simply questions that need to be asked and which make up the « cotton test ». In particular: what money is available for the increase in the number of hours? How will access to finance be made? With what criteria? Will, or will it not, be sufficient to meet the number of hours of assistance provided for in the law? These are questions that need to be answered. Third expression: deinstitutionalisation. The Government Programme speaks of a deinstitutionalisation plan for people with disabilities. That's right. However, the State budget does not strictly say anything about this matter. What it says is that the government will invest in increasing equipment at the disposal of these people, which makes it believe that, in fact, we are talking about deinstitutionalization, but what we are going to do is strengthen institutionalization. The question I want to leave is: who is working specifically on the deinstitutionalisation plan? Which organizations are involved? Is it only the organisations of the so-called "social sector", which, by their own tradition, have a vocation, an installed culture of institutionalization or are other institutions? Fourth expression: social benefit for inclusion. The Government announces that the third stage of social benefit for inclusion will be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u240	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u241	I shall conclude, Mr President, by not presenting the last two points which I still have to mention. I conclude by saying only the following: this third phase had already been promised to the previous Parliament. The question I want to ask is what expenditure is that they will be effectively paid and in what circumstances. What examples can the government give us? The budget is totally lacking in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u242	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u243	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u244	It's for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u245	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u246	Mr President, we have been told that the Minister for Labour and Social Security will use the floor. Is that true?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u247	Yes, sir, you are registered to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u248	That being the case, Mr President, there is a problem that I want to put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u249	Quickly, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u250	Of course, Mr. President. I'll be very quick, but I won't stop wanting to scalp. Two hours ago I asked the Bureau which members of the Government were going to use the floor and I was told that the Minister of Labour was not registered. Now, for the PSD, it was very important to know that, because we had a person prepared to ask questions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u251	Sir, I understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u252	Mr. President, be patient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u253	Mr President, I would ask you not to lengthen because an appeal to the Bureau is not going to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u254	I will not lengthen, Mr President, but what is at stake here is an unacceptable situation from a democratic point of view. Well, at the moment, no party except the Socialist Party — go there and see why! — you have time to ask questions to the Minister of Labour. I think that work and social security issues, as you know, are of the utmost importance. So, Mr. President, I propose...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u255	Mr President, I have to interrupt, because we cannot waste any more time on this. [[This is not wasting time!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u256	He knows that ministers can register until the end of the debate. At the time when you asked, the Minister was not registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u257	Mr. President, it's not worth it...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u258	The PS has given the government time for the Minister to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u259	I understand these explanations very well, but of two, one : or the Minister of Labour remains without questions from the democratically elected parties to this Chamber...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u260	Sir, we all understand...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u261	... or, then, Mr President, it is exceptionally given to each parliamentary group at least one minute. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security is registered for an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of the Government : The State budget for 2020 is a budget that, thanks to continuity, bets on the future. Over the past four years, as a country, we have managed to create, with dialogue, a climate of confidence and investment with a high capacity for job creation. There was dialogue between political parties, dialogue between social partners, dialogue between generations, with obvious results in financial sustainability and social sustainability of our development model. The figures are clear: over the past four years, we have had an increase of 730 000 people with social security contributions, reaching the record value of 4 million and 600 thousand people with social security contributions and contributions in 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a result of this increase in employment and reported income, at the end of 2019, we reached the record value of contributions to social security which for the first time exceeded EUR 18 billion, an increase of 30 % by 2015. In 2019, the FEFSS ( Fund for Financial Stabilization of Social Security ) exceeded for the first time EUR 20 billion and gained 29 years from the 2015 budget projections, ensuring greater confidence for the system and for younger generations. We have greater financial sustainability, but above all, also more social protection, contributing the social security system decisively to reduce the risk rate of poverty to 17, 2 %, withdrawing from this condition 550 000 people since 2015. It is this continuity and this capacity for dialogue that allows us to go further. We're not going back, like others. This is therefore a Budget which naturally reflects the continuity of the last four years of social public policies, continuity of a country with more people, better quality of life, with more and better opportunities for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is a Budget that takes us further and invests more EUR 1100 million in social public policy, reflecting our ambition to respond to the demographic challenges of young people, workers, territorial cohesion, more and better inclusion of people with disabilities, the promotion of active ageing, the real exploitation of pensioners' incomes at the lowest levels, the protection of the most needed, the most vulnerable, and the fight against poverty. With this Budget, we managed to support families and birth with family allowance, which will have a global investment in the order of EUR 830 million, reflecting more than 30% of what was the average value of family allowance in 2015 and reaches more than 1 million children, with the extension of parental rights, with the complement of day care, with the deduction to IRS collection. With this Budget, we were able to give an important signal to young generations, promoting their empowerment either with the partial tax exemption or with the increase in the value of IEFP internship scholarships ( Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ). With this budget, we will increase our capacity to qualify people for market needs, particularly in the field of technology. We will be able to implement the third phase of the PSI (social benefit for inclusion), which now covers 102 000 people, and we will implement the national accessibility plan, Agenda 20 - 24, extending the number of hours of personal assistance within the framework of the CAVI, which will have an investment of EUR 11 million. We will be able to implement, for the first time, a programme dedicated only to working within and will create tools to combat precariousness, with continuous work to strengthen the intervention capacity of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority). We will also fight poverty by increasing the CSI (social complement for the elderly) of all beneficiaries by over €189 / year in 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will strengthen social security in order to ensure greater responsiveness to citizens and businesses, replenishing destroyed capacity in the PSD/CDS government, in terms of human and technological resources, eliminating bureaucratic processes and assuming a radical reduction in response times for pensioners and citizens... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in particular by introducing simplification systems such as the NISS (social security identification number) at the time, which we implemented this month and which in six days already had 3400 foreigners regularising in social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The year 2020 is also the year of the implementation of the pilot projects of the informal caregiver and of strengthening the technical and social means allocated to the national strategy of homeless people, regulation of pilot projects for which, in fact, today was published the portal relating to the process of recognition of informal caregivers, signed at the beginning of this week.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u264	Now it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u265	We're not going back, we're always going forward and further. These are concrete examples that show how continuity opens us up and guarantees a way to go further, with more sustainability and more social protection, also opening the way for social dialogue to find together commitments to a comprehensive income and competitiveness agreement that responds to what people and businesses expect. This is a Human Face Budget, the face of Portugal, the face of Portuguese, the face of all who choose Portugal to live and work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u266	It also has time to speak quickly to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. The Minister no longer has time to answer her, but, as tradition is, the honourable Member can and should intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again, giving evidence of competence in the management of the time available, the Liberal Initiative will use it, waiting for future response, Mrs. Minister. Portugal today has a productivity that is less than 25 years old than the European Union — this is one of the major failures of our economic management. The question that I ask you is this: while responsible for the area of work and quality employment, what is planned in this Budget that promotes productivity and that will make the value of what is produced by each unit of time by a worker in Portugal incorporate more knowledge, more imagination, which can only come from a true freedom of choice in all areas of life?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the general debate on the State budget. [[We will stop the work and we will be back at 15 hours and 15 minutes to proceed to the end of the debate.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is suspended. [[It was 13 hours and 52 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we are in a position to restart our work. [[It was 15 hours and 21 minutes.]] I ask the officials of the authority to open the galleries to the public. First of all, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report on the entry into the Bureau of a diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you entered the Bureau, and you were admitted, Bill No 180 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Approves the status of the former fighter. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u270	Thank you very much. Mrs. Members, let us then move on to the closing stage of the debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. First of all, for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today, Portuguese and Portuguese have shown their interest in maintaining a left-wing Executive and also a left-wing majority in Parliament. This is a huge responsibility and will require that the perspective needs to be left-wing, that the measures need to be left-wing and that the governmental, structural and even budgetary objectives should also be left-wing. As the only Member of the Free Party, a left-wing, feminist, anti-racist and ecological party, I must say that this State budget does not necessarily represent us. This is indeed a State of continuity budget: continuity of low wages and low incomes; continuity of moderate rates and secondaryization of mental health; continuity of insufficient environmental policy, deficient in an extractive perspective; continuity of under-financing of culture and arts; continuity of work precariousness for researchers and other key sectors; continuity of bureaucracy which, for years and years, insists on penalizing immigrants; continuity in a series of other areas, which we eagerly expect to be rapidly altered and that there is an effective investment in areas that truly interest the improvement of the daily lives of millions of Portuguese and Portuguese. What we ask is that this State Budget respond to the emergencies of the 21st century: more equality, more social justice, more future and more environmental justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u272	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u273	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After more than 10 hours of debate in this budget, which will be approved by the PS with the complicity of the left, it is time to ask what really matters. What will people's lives be like in 2020 with this Budget? Here, then, is the portrait of this life through the history of several people, of several Portuguese. A Portuguese born in 2020 fa-CL will be in a hospital whose parents did not choose — unless they had money, of course — in a labor assisted by demotivated professionals whose merit is not to be rewarded. A Portuguese who does 10 years in 2020 will attend a school that their parents have not chosen — unless, once again, they have money — which will be poorly equipped, possibly degraded and with demotivated teachers whose merit is no way to be rewarded. A Portuguese who completes 20 and peaks in 2020 and has completed higher education will be lucky if you get jobs to earn 1000 € per month, subject to a direct and indirect tax burden of more than 50 % — I repeat, my gentlemen, more than 50 %! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u274	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u275	... and with weak prospects of evolution, since, according to OECD, Portugal is the country in which a degree has lost more value in the last decade. If it is also a Portuguese 20 years old, but without studies and who begins to work with the minimum wage, then it will be found that at least you do not have to worry about taxes. Wrong! A Portuguese who earns the minimum wage paid to the State, each month, between TSU (the single social rate) and taxes on consumption, 25 % of its income. It is worth repeating: someone who earns the minimum wage in Portugal sees the state keep a quarter of its income.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u276	What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u277	A Portuguese 30-year-old in 2020 will have, with much effort and some luck, evolved in its salary and entered the third or fourth steps of the IRS — such that it already has marginal rates close to 40 % — rates that are about twice as many of the countries to which this Portuguese is already thinking about emigranting, because it does not see great future here nor the possibility of forming a family. This Portuguese still thought to open a business in its home country, in the interior, but looked at the government's proposal for IRC to apply to businesses in the interior and realized that it was not worth risking. But this Portuguese, at least, did not come to the conclusion that it was necessary to register in the PS to go up to life! A Portuguese 40-year-old in 2020 self-sufficient professional will suffocate in the face of income or household performance, despair in the state of transport or care of his children in the pediatric emergency and increase the army of consumers of ansiolytics of which Portugal is champion. A Portuguese who does 50 years in 2020 will account for the value of the approaching state reform, realize that it will be even more miserable than his salary and wonder how it was possible not to save enough during his working life. A Portuguese woman aged 60 or 70 in 2020 only wants her not to get sick, because otherwise she will stop at the same hospital as the baby I started talking about and she will not choose the hospital or other health care providers and she knows that nothing will work, because the system is imploding and has no competition to encourage her to improve. This will be Portugal 2020, Portugal of the PS with the complicity of the Left Block, the PCP and all those who abstain here today. It will be a stopped country, with extended hands waiting for the state, will be a country without energy and deeply sad. This is Portugal that this Budget wants to forever. This is not Portugal that the Liberal Initiative wants. We will therefore vote against this State budget because we want more and better for Portugal. We believe in Portuguese, believe in an alternative, and this alternative is liberalism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u278	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u279	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This is the Budget of the fake boyfriend, of the more or less hidden boyfriend between Mr. Prime Minister and the bench that is on my left, that of the Left Block. Smiles, more or less latent, misleading, apparent conflicts behind curtains, but, in fact, this Budget was decided from the beginning: it was the Budget that, with the criticisms of the Left Block, of the Portuguese Communist Party, of the Greens and perhaps of the Free Party, we still do not know how it will vote, was combined behind the curtains. It is not worth deceiving the Portuguese, because we all already knew what the sense of vote, more current or less current, assumed or not assumed, would have in this Budget. But we also know that this is the Budget that will, perhaps for the first time in the history of democracy, buy social peace. Yes, buy social peace. We can announce the hundreds of millions that we want for the National Health Service, or for the security forces, or for the militarized forces, or we can devalue the injured doctors or nurses, because it doesn't matter whether we are going to execute this Budget or not. The capitulations are there to tell us that this other Mr. Minister of Finance will decide, in the end, who can spend and what can spend. Of course, Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa will again say that it is a shame, but they will do nothing to prevent this State budget from coming forward, in the name of, of course, the democratic progress and the patriotic left that has been leading the economy of this country for many years. But this is also the budget in which no one believes — neither the European Commission, nor UTAO itself, nor the former Socialist Members believe! So we have a very bitter taste to believe in the accounts that this Minister of Finance presents to us here. In fact, whether or not we have the growth rate that Mr Finance Minister foresees, whether we are going to have the oil price that Mr Finance Minister plans, I say to you this: no one in this country, of the most lawyers at least, will be able to believe these forecasts. They are so unrealistic, so unrealistic that I wouldn't believe if I hadn't seen a Prime Minister who didn't win the elections to be able to form government in Portugal! But this is also the Budget which, for the first time, assumes that the debts of private persons, families and businesses are not to be paid. Therefore, the state has above all to charge, because giving the example is not with it. Paying families, businesses or paying debts, as happens in health, is always the same: « Pay, pay and pay, which is what they serve! Then, Mr. Minister of Finance comes and says: 'Let's create a public housing programme' — imagine, of public housing! And who pays for it? You guys up there, as always! They're always the same ones paying for others to enjoy. [[PS protests.]] This budget is more than that, this budget is the one that will anticipate one of the most serious financial crises that Portugal will experience in the next decade. Don't say we didn't warn! Don't say we didn't warn! [[PS protests.]] Do not say that they have not been warned in time of a crisis that all data indicate that it will crash on Portugal. We can say that it is a lie, we can announce, with millions and millions charged through the taxes of the Portuguese, that there will be a day when the Portuguese will simply get tired of paying, paying and paying to support a state that does not stop increasing. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u280	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u281	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the symbol of this State budget: a state that does not stop increasing so that Portuguese people, increasingly, every day, have less money in their pocket. This is really a scandal! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u282	I have the floor by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u283	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During the discussion of the Budget, this discussion is now closed, we have heard sometimes without account of continuity, i.e. the continuation of this State budget in relation to the last four. But as often as the expression is repeated, there is, however, an element to which it is not possible to escape. There is, in this Budget, a sharp and clear slowdown in the path outlined in the last State budgets. And this slowdown is visible, in particular, in the proposal for wage increases for employees of the Public Administration, which, it is recalled, have been more than a decade without knowing any increase; it is visible in the proposal for increases in reforms and pensions, which continue to be characterized by a frightening injustice and which, on moral but also on grounds of democratic responsibility, must be removed, especially in times when the economy gives positive signs; it is visible in the thin investment in public services; and it is finally visible in the weak response to the climate challenge we have in front of. For this reason, for the Greens, such continuity of this budget does not refer to its content and priorities there, but to the way the Government continues to look at the European Union's taxes and the accounts of the deficit. It is here that, more clearly, there is such a line of continuity, a line of obsession which, unfortunately, continues to guide the budgetary priorities of the Socialist Party's Government and which, now, in this budget, has the aggravating effect of being faced with a scenario of budgetary surplus. In other words, there is a margin and financial availability for real value of wages and pensions and for serious investment in public services, which, in fact, continue on the streets of bitterness, the Government of the Socialist Party prefers to be the good student and "be nice" in Brussels instead of giving effective response to the problems of the country and to the expectations of Portuguese, whether from a wage point of view, or from the point of view of the quality of public services. These are the options and priorities of the PS Government that we do not follow, as we have always said. In our view, such accounts cannot only be true of the European Union's taxes, they must be true, first of all, of the policy recipients who practice themselves, i.e. with the Portuguese, their quality of life and their rights. But it is also true that we are faced with a State budget that does not promote retreats, in view of what has been advanced in recent years, i.e., we do not see, in this budget, the return of the IRS supertax, the PEC (special payment on behalf) is not raised, the reduction in social pass prices is maintained, the 40 hours of work per week will not be returned, the holidays continue to be paid, there is no provision for redundancies of public administration workers and the autonomy of local democratic power is respected. In fact, in this regard, I remember that in the PSD/CDS-PP government budgets there was always, invariably, a rule that prevented municipal chambers from hiring workers, it was supposed to be only with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Now, with no retreat from what has been achieved, it means that the blackout which in the previous legislation was made much of the measures taken by the PSD/CDS Government — it is recalled that these measures put the Portuguese practically bread and water — gains, increasingly, a definitive nature and that is good, both for the country and for the Portuguese. But it is necessary to go further, because not everything is recovered, above all, but not only in view of the scale of the damage that the PSD and CDS caused in the quality of life of the Portuguese and in the quality of public services. On the other hand, it is necessary to go further in responding to the problems that persist in the country and that the Portuguese continue to feel, both socially and environmentally. While acknowledging that this State budget, as it now stands, is far from responding to the most serious problems facing the country and to the legitimate expectations of Portuguese to respond to the investment needs in public services in general and, in particular, at the level of the National Health Service, at the level of education, at the level of justice and at the level of public transport, as it is far from responding to the climate challenge that we have before us, the Greens have decided to abstain at the stage of generality,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u284	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u285	... thus giving the Socialist Party an opportunity to reflect and to be able to understand the real needs of the country and Portuguese, both from a social and environmental point of view. But be clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this abstention, in general, does not compromise and in no way conditions the way in which the Greens vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u286	Not at all! Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u287	... as regards the overall final vote of the State budget, the assessment of which will be made at the appropriate time. I therefore abstained in general, but we will not abstain from presenting, as a matter of specialty, a set of proposals to transport social justice and environmental balance for this State budget. These proposals are centred on the axes that we consider absolutely fundamental, namely the fight against climate change, the enhancement of the interior and the fight against regional asymmetries, social justice and the strengthening of public services. But that's next week. For now, it is the opportunity given to the Socialist Party to reassess priorities and to realize the real needs of the country and Portuguese. This is the only way and the extent to which the Green Party abstained in the general vote on the State budget for 2020. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u288	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u289	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Over the past few months, the NAP has sought to contribute to making the State budget proposal more fair and inclusive for those who need it and that it also provides effective answers to the environmental challenges of the time we live. Today, the Budget includes, among other measures, the start of the professional retraining of workers of the Pego and Sines thermal power plants, the extension to the entire Country of the Housing First Programme, the strengthening of the provision of psychological care and nutrition in health centres, the strengthening of the commitment to prevention and promotion of mental health with an allocation of EUR 10 million, the strengthening of the means of the SEF to combat trafficking in human beings, the increase of educational action assistants in schools, the extension of inclusive education to higher education, as well as the allocation of EUR 29 million to agricultural production projects in a biological way and, more symbolically, the increase of the VAT of tauromachic shows and the forecasting of money for the expansion of abandoned animal collection centres and sterilization policies, although it is necessary to increase the currently planned amounts. This is due to the NAP and its action. However, what we have already achieved for the country does not prevent us from finding that this budget is very ambitious and does not effectively correspond to the many challenges ahead. That was not possible, because the Government considers this to be the best budget it has to offer to the country. The PAN doesn't do what he wants, does what he can, with the strength he has! In the State Budget, we understand that a strategic vision for the country and a proper identification of priorities must fit, and that those who execute it require courage. Now, what this Budget demonstrates is a deep lack of courage, something that is being achieved, we say yesterday, by the way it insists on putting its head under the sand so as not to have to structurally resolve the problems of the country with a perspective. The problematic and chronic state of health in Portugal is an example of this, such as having a home is a fire for many citizens, or the fact that public transport, which affects people day by day, requires an urgent social and environmental response. in the same way, this State budget, which has on the basis of a government programme supposedly committed to combating climate change, panfletically reduces this commitment to the granting of tax benefits and to a number of measures which, although necessary, do not fulfil the purpose of decarbonisation that the government has announced, nor do they pave the way for a change of paradigm. This budget continues to promote the financing of extractive and polluting activities, without there being a concrete will to stop economic activities that have a devastating impact on the welfare of animals, the environment, habitats and protected species and, we do not deceive ourselves, also people. The Minister of Finance stresses the need to have certain accounts and to be responsible for the budget proposals we make, seeking to ensure revenue compensation. The PAN will do so! We will present, as a specialist, a number of proposals that allow significant revenue collections, some focusing on sectors that are considered to be untouchable, such as energy monopolies, aviation, maritime navigation, the plastic industry, unsustainable tourism, the bad business of hunting, meat producers and exporters or producers of superintensive crops supported by irresponsible use of water. the government should be able to choose between having a budget of the 21st century, taxing obsolete economic sectors, low ethical and highly polluting, or maintaining the current tax model of taxing mainly those who work. A budget of correct accounts necessarily has to be a budget with sensitivity, contributing to reducing the inequalities that still persist. And we have not heard so far how this budget reflects the Government's options on a matter as essential as the allocation of public resources to various policies, its financing and its effective application in the area of gender equality, as provided for in the National Strategy for Equality and Non-Discrimination 2018 - 2030. This is an essential tool to mitigate the way women are treated in our society, as well as to ensure the existence of means that prevent and combat the scourge of domestic violence, which continues to have a majority female face. And by not doing so, Mr. Prime Minister, your best budget is leaving someone behind. Here I can't leave the reference: it's leaving us, women, behind. This is also a State budget which, on the basis of a Government programme supposedly committed to improving justice and the issues of transparency and combating corruption, is associated with the underfinancing of criminal police and courts. Corruption has a cost for the country and we can give it a number: 18 billion euros. We speak of a value that exceeds the annual health budget and that is 10 times higher than unemployment expenditure. This budget is proof that government announcements in relation to commitment to corruption and to strengthening transparency are not sufficient. It is necessary to go further, starting with the revocation of the visasgold program, which has already been identified as a focus of corruption and insecurity in our country and a decisive factor in the existing real estate bubble. How, then, can one want transparency and then not give the Transparency Entity money that will allow it to fully enter into operation? Oh, my God! How can transparency be desired and then not to increase the Constitutional Court's funds, so that it works effectively, keeping the current unsustainable situation in which there is not even re-wi-fi coverage throughout the Ratton Palace? Oh, my God! How can transparency be sought when judicial decisions are not even taken in this area? Oh, my God! In conclusion, Mr Prime Minister, we are — we are not tired of repeating — less than ten years from the point of no return, from which the climate system, as we know it, can undergo profound irreversible changes. Ten years! Open... We have two legislatures to ensure that the next generations will not be irreparably engaged with extreme weather and unpredictable intensity phenomena, such as those we have witnessed in Australia for these days, but that in a recent past have occurred in Amazonia and also in Portugal, with uncontrolled fires, destroyers of human and non-human lives, of goods, with severe droughts or devastating floods. The fight against climate change is not made to the taste of the will of the markets and it is not a pretext to accentuate an ideological position, it must be the design of our lives. The NAP proposals, as a specialist, will not take into account the interests of sectors that are considered to be untouchable, will be consistent with the objectives of combating climate change, with improving the working conditions, with the right to decent and accessible housing for all, with the strengthening of transparency in our country or with more forgotten areas, such as animal protection. In particular, the NAP will be active and constructive. from the Government and the Socialist Party, we hope that they will finally take their head out of the sand and maintain their commitments so that they will meet the challenges we leave them here. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u290	Before giving the floor, in order to speak the closing speech, to Mrs Cristas, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, and having been informed that it will be the last intervention here in Parliament, I would like to tell you that it is sad that we see it leave, although we have had many aggressive debates in the previous Parliament. I wish you the greatest happiness for your future, Mrs. [[PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL applause.]] Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u291	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have closed the debate, in general, of one more State budget, the fifth of this socialist era. About him, Prime Minister wrote, first on Twitter, and then repeated many times, still here yesterday, which is a continuity budget. Continuity is the word, we agree. Continuity in the reduction, now elimination, of the deficit — and we well know that it happens due to double effect of the increase in tax revenue and the reduction in interest costs — and continuity in small economic growth, but also continuity in everything else. And it's worth remembering these continuities. Continuity in the greatest tax burden ever. Yesterday, the Prime Minister explained that between lowering the tax burden or strengthening public services, he preferred the second option. Until we could understand the argument, if we had observed this effect of improving services over the last four years. The problem is that, with the socialist government, we have had the worst of both worlds: the worst tax burden of all time and the worst public services of all time. And even the investment executed still exceeded the level of 2015 — note! - four years back. Continuity in the loss of taxpayer purchasing power. For the third consecutive year, the update of the IRS steps is below the rate of inflation. Continuity in growth beyond our potential and the economies to which we should compare. The government likes to talk in convergence with the euro area, but it should explain that three quarters of the wealth produced in this area are dominated by four countries, of which three have grown less than Portugal. If, instead, we look at what is comparable, we unfortunately find that only in the euro area, 12 countries have grown more than our country. Continuity in a comparatively competitive economy and in the lost opportunity to transform benefiting from a favourable international context. Continuity in the trend of trade balance degradation. In 2019, for the first time in the last eight years, the trade balance was negative and in 2020 the projected budget deteriorates to almost double. Continuity of a State which knows no structural reform. In fact, we know how the expression causes allergy to the Prime Minister. Continuity in a government debt too high, with only two euro area countries worse than Portugal. Continuity in an excessively high external deficit. Continuity in the qualification deficit. Continuity in an untransparent budget in its implementation, with the increase in centralized appropriations, which, exchanged by children, means an increase in the blocking power of the Minister of Finance, adding to the captivating, which can even translate into an immediate political gain but prevents efficient public management and leads the country to limited situations, that health is the most demanding example. Finally, continuity in the political support of this budget. The name — approval for abstention — is changed, but the political responsibility of the Left Block, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP remains in this Budget and these policies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in four years, the macro photography of our country, unfortunately, did not change structurally as it could and should. Just remember that half of the investment is under construction or that the saving rate knows historical minimums. On the contrary, we face and face challenges for which we could and should be better prepared. Without a robust economy, without companies to invest, to grow and strengthen, we have not managed to finance properly neither the functions of sovereignty nor the social functions of the State we want, from prenatal health to palliative care and education, from support to the elderly in combating poverty. Without a more free economy, we could not break into definitive persistent cycles of poverty. The state ice cream takes everything, scrutinizing the effort and amputating the people's dream to see the result of their work and to have a better life for themselves and their families. Just remember that last year the day of tax release passed on to June 15—it was 166 long days to maintain the state! We'll see what this year will look like. We have no policies to attract serious investment, such as fiscal competitiveness, or to ensure an improvement in qualifications and a true adaptation to the digital age. Regarding birth and demography, a coherent integrated strategy is still lacking. Every year there is another step forward—it is true! — as if to hit the point, but we do not see any structural, serious and permanent compromise. With regard to climate and territory, the dimension where we can have a more decisive impact remains: adaptation to climate change, which are a reality, and serious and deep preparation for, on the one hand, a framework of fresh water scarcity, with an impact on supply to populations and agriculture, and on the other hand, a framework of sea level rise. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 10 years ago I went to Parliament and my intervention was precisely in the area of budget and finance. What I heard then, unfortunately, is quite similar to what I heard yesterday. What happened next is known. It's the CDS' duty to tell people the truth. It's CDS duty not to lower your arms. It is the duty of the CDS to do the construction work of an alternative again, because in democracy there is always an alternative, if not for today, it is for tomorrow. on my part, I continue to believe in the creative force of people. I continue to believe that we have a country with extraordinary people, women and men of claws, here and around the world, elderly knowledgeable and dynamic young people, who, with the right framework, with the right help—which is often simply not helping by the state—we can build a leading country in various areas, and I cannot fail to refer to the ocean as one of them. I continue to believe that, by giving space to this transforming force of people, we can build a truly sustainable country in all its dimensions. A final word, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in my last speech, I would just like to leave a word of deep respect for Parliament, which is a central pillar of our democracy, of our system, is the House of Democracy where the most noble function of all political functions, which is to represent our citizens in their plurality of thought. It has been an honor for me to serve the country, either as a Member or as a ruler, and I never forget that the government depends on Parliament and always responds before Parliament. Mr President, thank you very much for your words and I wish this Parliament the best success. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u292	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor for the closing of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we close the general discussion on the proposal for a State Budget for 2020, a proposal in which the Government assumes as a central element the objective of achieving a budgetary surplus. This is an option of the PS Government which, today being less conditional than in the previous legislature, by virtue of the last election results, tries to impose its usual options, stressing its submission to the European Union and the euro and the interests of the great capital. This is a surplus that is not essentially achieved as a result of dynamism and economic growth, nor of fair taxation of the wealth produced, nor of the cut-off of privileges and mordomas of which the economic groups benefit, but rather at the expense of wages and workers' rights, at the cost of the investment needed in hospitals, schools, courts, rail, roads, forest and productive sectors, sacrificing increases in pension pensions and social benefits, limiting the hiring of thousands of workers who need SNS, public school or security forces. We have said and reaffirmed that the government gives the surplus what is missing in the country. Portugal is today a country facing serious economic and social problems, with deep structural deficits that are at the root of high external dependence. With important instruments of his sovereignty, the country bears on its shoulders a public debt that consumes an important part of our resources. Most companies and strategic sectors are now under the domain of large capital. Deep social injustices are piled up, with the profits and privileges of a few to cope with the difficulties, deprivations and poverty of many. Public services debate serious situations. Public investment has dropped its peak in the last decade and its slight resuscitation is clearly insufficient to meet the requirements of national development. And the means, which are always scarce when we talk about the rights of workers and the people, abound when it comes to covering the holes of corruption in the bank, paying public-private partnerships or providing generous tax benefits to monopoly groups. It is true that during the last legislature, the forced march of exploitation and impoverishment was interrupted, which had been imposed by the Governments of the PECs (the Stability and Growth Pact) and by the pact of aggression of the Troikas. The four budgets which have been approved in the meantime, despite their limitations and shortcomings, have made an important contribution to a path of defence, replacement and acquisition of rights: from pension increases to free school manuals, from the reduction of the IRS to the elimination of the special payment on account, from the reduction of transport costs to the taxation of large profits and assets or even from the thawing of advances in the Public Administration to the replacement of important rights eliminated by the PSD/CDS government, notably of 35 hours of work per week. That is not the pace and scope of this proposal by 2020. This is not a continuity budget or the best of budgets. The best of the budgets would respond unequivocally to the needs of the country, would meet the fair demands and expectations of the Portuguese people, solve problems instead of delaying, break with the paths of injustice, dependence and exploitation. The best budget would be with workers, pensioners, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, farmers, youth, children in our country and the right they must be happy. That was not the government's option, but it didn't even have to be that way. There was, and there are, enough means in the country so that it will not continue to postpone what has long been claimed by the Portuguese people. There were other options for the government and such means, such millions, would not fail to appear to respond to national problems. We do not ignore the government's possibility of achieving some positive steps. With the intervention of the CFP, the possibility of moving forward with measures to increase pensions, to take steps in the freeness of day care, to achieve the end of moderate rates, to reduce energy costs, to increase social benefits, such as family allowance or unemployment allowance, to strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS) or to create the National Medicines Laboratory, among others. The abstention vote we have now taken is not to close the possibility of entering these and other measures into the budget, although starting from a budget whose proposal is, as it has been said, quite limited. We will fight to achieve all of these measures, without failing to go any further. Yes, we want to move forward. We are not content with the short net emanating from Brussels, nor will we stop contradicting the interests of the great capital. We will fight for the demand for an increase in wages, a genuine national emergency, with a view to regaining purchasing power. We will intervene in the hiring of thousands of workers who need the proper functioning of public services, the right to free day care and the creation of a public day care network. We will not give up fighting for the increase in progressiveity and justice in the IRS, for the taxation of large capital with the obligation to pay taxes on profits generated here in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u294	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u295	We're going to hit each other by reducing energy costs. We will demand the substantial increase in public investment, particularly in the SNS, but also in education, culture, justice, security, transport and housing, among other areas. We will move forward with proposals for improving social benefits, such as unemployment allowance or universalization of family allowance, support for the productive sectors of the forest, industry, the elimination of tolls, the purchase of ships and lacking trains, at the end of the ruinous business of PPPs, the increase in support of the arts and the achievement of the 1% target for culture. Here we will be, as always, to fight all the negative will be imposed on the Portuguese people and to support whatever progress and conquest is. We will decide the final vote on the basis of what, in concrete terms, results from progress at the stage of the speciality, the more general political framework in which the Budget will be discussed and its developments. unlike others, the PCP does not give up fighting for a Portugal with a future. The situation in the country is increasingly calling for a true alternative policy, a patriotic and left-wing policy that actually responds to national problems. It is to this end that the CFP will continue to beat, giving more strength to its first and main commitment, which is with the workers and the people. Yeah, we won't give up any fights before we've stopped. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u296	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u297	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: We are in the final phase of two days of budgetary debate and I confess that there is a doubt that concerns me:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u298	About how you're going to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u299	... have the right parties really given up this debate? I know what moments of congresses and internal elections are stages in which parties close,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u300	What about the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u301	... but if there are views in confrontation, views for the country that fight, it was to be expected that some idea would make its way to this debate. But no, so far there hasn't been a single sample. They have created the fable of "the greatest tax burden ever"...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u302	And it's a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u303	...and closed themselves in it as if it were a matter of faith. They do not listen to arguments, reject facts and deny reality. If there is no direct tax that increases, how can they say that the tax burden increases?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u304	They call themselves indirect taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u305	Will they be angry with job creation? Is that it? That is why this is the only fundamental change. There are more people working, there are more people discounting for social security, and they increase their revenues, which reinforces public accounts. Is that bad? Are you angry with that? Why? It seems that the right is not opposition to the government, it is opposition to the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u307	...as opposed to job creation, as opposed to improving people's lives. The years pass, the elections pass, and they're still upset. That is why all debates begin to be defeated and nothing adds to people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u308	It's the gas oil!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u309	As they say, music helps purify souls, I remind you Antony Variations, in a way of advice: Change of life! See that life is not to live as a punishment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u310	The body pays! When the head has no judgment, the body pays!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u311	From this point of view, they rid themselves of their ghosts. I know that life doesn't work: there's no internal stability in the PSD, there's an empty debate in the CDS and even the Arrival is experiencing a bad phase. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. André Ventura was unable to convince Sousa Lara, the spokesperson for you chosen, to abdicate the vital grant. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u312	: Shame, Mr. Deputy, shame! Even now the mandate has begun and already the skeletons of the Arrival begin to leave the closet. And, speaking inconsistencies, when does Mr André Ventura or the Liberal Initiative enter with the projects or proposals to end the National Health Service, the public school, social security or to liberalize redundancies? When do you show the country what you really hide behind your slogans? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u313	Oh! ... Then behind your own! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u314	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government has repeated that this is the best budget it has ever presented. The people say that presumption is like winding water, everyone takes whatever they want, and about that choice is individual and I have nothing to say about it. But reality is not right with the statement. The bill that your Government has tabled summarizes one word: superavit. Mr Prime Minister says that this is not much, and the Minister for Finance says that that will be almost everything. In fact, when I heard him quote Fernando Pessoa until I thought it would be to remember one of his most striking verses: « More than this is Jesus Christ, who knew nothing of finance». [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] The problem, the « more than this», is what remains behind when the holofotes are centered on the surplus. The superavit does not respond to the housing crisis or the climate crisis, does not guarantee the bus, train or boat by hour. More: the surplus attacks the essential functions of the State, leaving security forces without cars, schools without necessary works, asbestos for withdrawing in public buildings. Brussels may like the surplus, the Eurogroup can be radiant with the example given by its president and it can enrich the curriculum itself, getting closer to any other institutional position, but the truth is that this money is needed by the country. This budget is not continuous because it fails to understand the context of the country and the world. Ortega Y Gasset wrote that «I am myself and my circumstance, and if I do not save her, I do not save myself».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u315	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u316	This is the problem of the Government's proposal for a budget: it disregards the circumstances in which it is presented. To say that this budget is the result of previous budgets can only mean that one intends to live under the shadow of past budgets, because that would be to fail to the challenges of the present. When Europe dives into stagnation, good accounts do not mean sitting on a surplus but, rather, ensure public investment, which guarantees growth in the present and future. Although this process has begun badly, preferring the Government to present the budget proposal alone to the Assembly of the Republic, the Left Block has never given up on correcting the shortcomings found and the strategic errors that would be made. That is why we put investment in the National Health Service as fundamental in our negotiations. We began with the obvious observation: we could not make a budget that would again leave the National Health Service overwhelmed. But, knowing that this is the starting point, it can never be the point of arrival. And we knew this because our struggle for a quality SNS did not start only in the present State Budget, it has as one of the fundamental pillars the Health Bases Law, proposed by Arnaut and Semedo, and that we were able to approve in the previous Legislation. And in this Budget, the first since the adoption of the Health Bases Act, we could not postpone the steps necessary to achieve it. the same way it was not easy to reach agreement in the Basics Law and we negotiated until the last hour, the same has happened now. But it wasn't an effort in vain. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The measures we agree on for the specialty guarantee steps to comply with the Health Bases Act. The Basics Act provides for the end of the moderation rates in all medical acts prescribed by SNS professionals and we will take steps to this end, removing economic barriers to access to health care. Upon the entry into force of the State Budget, consultations in primary health care will become free of charge and, throughout the year, examinations, analyses and other means of diagnosis will also become free of charge. Consultations will still be missed in hospitals, among others, but the calendar is in progress to achieve this goal. We add to the Government's proposal, which already responds to the chronic subscription of the SNS, an additional investment of EUR 180 million to be implemented by 2020, which will ensure better means of examination and diagnosis, improving the response to people and reducing the costs with the use of the private sector. We give body to one of the pillars of the Health Bases Act, ensuring a full dedication regime for its professionals, introducing exclusivity for better careers and the end of promiscuity with the private. We will start with the Family Health Units and Integrated Responsibility Centres, but with the aim of extending to all directors of hospital services. Also, we guarantee the implementation of the National Program for Mental Health, one of the areas in which the most failed the response in our country, and we record the advances in what concerns professionals to hire. These advances give shape to the Health Bases Act, something in which the Government failed in the proposal it delivered to the Assembly, and are framed in a thought that defends the strengthening of the quality of public services and their universality, fundamental values to ensure the cohesion of the country. That is also what we are doing with proposals such as the decline of tips in higher education or the extension of the solidarity supplement for the elderly, where we have reached agreement, or also with the opening up of the government to a higher than the budget proposal for public administration salaries or a further strengthening of pensions and reforms. We appreciate the outcome of the negotiation, but we know that there is still so much to do to overcome the inadequacies of this State budget proposal. The reduction in energy VAT, which is essential for combating the energy poverty that is rampant in our country, will deserve our attention in the speciality of the budgetary debate. The shift workers will count on the Left Block so as not to be forgotten in this debate in the field of expertise. The informal caregivers will not see their rights postponed and will have in the Left Block the guarantee that those who do not forget the enormous effort they face every day. The responses to the housing crisis will not stay behind, because we will respond to this scourge that affects thousands of families in the country. The defence of public investment, of transport to the recovery of public buildings, through the removal of asbestos, are matters in which we will do everything to ensure that these emergencies are no longer postponed. The fight against corruption will also be carried out with the necessary resources, which we will not allow to lack the Transparency Entity, which will monitor the wealth of politicians and high public positions. The debate now begins in the specialty, it is now the Members and the Members who will make the decisive choices. from the Left Block, we know what our mandate is and we will not fail the people of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u317	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Rui Rio has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u318	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The general debate on the State budget proposal for the current year 2020 ends here. A proposal which, by its nature, should underpin a strategy for growth and economic development for Portugal, a document that should define a line of direction and therefore the priorities of budgetary policy in the face of the strategic objectives to be achieved. Unfortunately, it does not appear in this proposal any direction or strategy for our collective future. They only recognize a set of avulsive measures, without a defined strategy, but with a clear tactic: to try to consolidate in the Portuguese minds the pilgrimage idea that the PS in the government can give everything that others would never achieve. [[PSD applause.]] In practice, it is possible to have sun in the air and rain in the napal. It is only that this speech, which the PS has adopted as an official since 2015, breaks down the degradation of public services, in the absence of courage to carry out a reformist policy that prepares us for the future, in the persistent emigration of our young frames, in the blind captives of the Ministry of Finance and in the heavy fiscal punishment that the government has violated every year the Portuguese. This State budget does not run away from this rule. Try to give the idea that everything will improve without, however, integrating into itself a strategy that makes it possible. Better jobs and better income for Portuguese will only be true if there are policies that, in the medium term, strengthen our competitiveness in international markets. Better standard of living for Portuguese is not achieved with small budget palliatives or with political marketing techniques. With these you can sell illusions, you can pack the present, but you will never be able to prepare a better future for Portugal. The fact that this budget provides for structural balance and presents a small surplus on its overall balance is a matter that we have raised as a positive matter at the end of 45 years of constant deficits and the consequent accumulation of huge public debt. Only the way this balance is achieved cannot merit our agreement. The way in which the EUR 533 million of budgetary surplus is achieved is determined by two factors that are, in fact, outside the concrete merit of governance: the continuing increase in the tax burden and the monetary policy of the European Central Bank. The way this is achieved is a particular injustice for Portuguese and is wrong from the point of view of economic growth. Comparing the state budget proposal for 2018 with the one we are currently assessing by 2020, the tax burden on Portuguese will increase from 34, 3 % to 35, 1 % of our gross domestic product plus 0, 8 %, representing more than EUR 1740 million. In other words, the Portuguese will pay more EUR 1740 million in taxes by 2020 than what they would pay if the government maintained this year the tax burden that this Parliament approved for 2018. The sharp increase in tax burden, the reduction in interest rates and the extraordinary amount of dividends paid by the Banco de Portugal to the Government are the secret of the propagandised financial miracle. After all, the miracle is a well-earthly phenomenon and does not lack transcendental explanation. To pay more taxes to the Portuguese and to enjoy European monetary policy explains the phenomenon of multiplying the revenue of the socialist budgets. [[PSD applause.]] The concrete merit of governance, by means of reforms and policies that could have made the consolidation of our public finances, is something that simply does not exist. If we compare the public debt interest invoice paid in 2015 with that expected for 2020, the difference is brutal : less EUR 1800 million under the European monetary policy that helps to maintain interest rates at an abnormally low level. The question that can and should be asked is how the PS intends to resolve the issue when interest rates resume their normal values and the dividends of Banco de Portugal also return to normal. When it is so—because one day it will have to be—if something sustained, however, does not do, everyone will realize that Portugal has been experiencing illusions and that, like the cigarette in its history with the ant, it has not properly prepared itself, in the summer, to be able to face the winter. [[PSD applause.]] As in previous years, also in 2020 public expenditure will increase its weight in GDP. This is the governance logic of the PS and the left that supports it: ever more taxes and more spending, thus reinforcing every year, a little more, the presence of the public sector in Portuguese life. We are all aware of the many demands that today are being asked of the State and of the enormous demands that lie ahead of public services, but the solution cannot be the vicious circle of more taxes for more spending, which this government has been implementing annually. The path must be the strictest and best management of available resources and the creation of more wealth through economic growth based on investment and the production of more value-added marketable goods. To this end, it would be necessary for the State budgets to have as their strategic objective support for small and medium-sized enterprises, including investment, research and export incentives. This is not the way this budget proposal sets out for the country, nor does it, as its structural element, trace the incentive for national savings, which is historically disappointing. It will be difficult to convince the left-wing forces which have supported the PS Government that increasing savings is vital for Portugal to be able to invest without having to dramatically aggravate its external indebtedness. It will be difficult, but it is the way that the country will necessarily have to go on. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, no change can be identified in the position of the Government, in particular the Ministry of Finance, which can lead us to conclude that the amount of public investment entered in the budget proposal is first met since 2016. The value of 2, 3 % of the product is equivalent to 2019, but nothing leads us to believe that this year everything will be different. For this reason, and because there is also no conviction about sectoral reforms that can lead us to believe that public services will improve their performance, the budget logic for 2020 is marked in almost everything by continuity with respect to the previous legislation. Even the curious ability to evaporate EUR 590 million of expenditure, invented last year for the first time in Portuguese budgetary history, is repeated this year, to the dismay of the most attentive. What would Prof. Mário Centeno say to one of his students if he, in an exam, copied a value from one picture to the other? [[PSD applause.]] Well, that's what happens when we compare Table 6.1. with Table 3.4. of the State Budget Report for 2020. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] This is Table 6.1. with Table 3.4. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u319	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr Rui Rio finish his final speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u320	This is a trick in which the illusionist, instead of taking 590 million euros out of the sleeve, hides them in the carton. This is certainly a magical effect in which, of two, one, or the sum of EUR 590 million will soon be held in discretion by the Ministry of Finance, at the expense of the approval of this Parliament, or there will be no surplus of EUR 533 million, but yes, it is a deficit of EUR 57 million. We cannot therefore also make a positive note on the transparency of the proposal we are considering here. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Social Democratic Party cannot, for the reasons presented here, agree on the proposal for a State budget that the Government presents to us, because it has no strategic sense and, much less, it has that which the PSD understands as fundamental to the economic development of our country; because it again bets on the increase in the tax burden and pressure on taxpayers; because it continues to increase the burden of public expenditure in our economy; because fiscal consolidation continues to be supported by increases in taxes and incomes of strong cash and not by changes in the structural profile of expenditure; because it forgets that small and medium-sized enterprises are the main engine of our economy and that it is in them that we have to waged if we want to create better jobs and pay better wages to Portuguese; because it does not, in itself, close any substantive reform that aims to optimize the resources available and, consequently, to reduce the degradation in which public services have fallen in recent years; and because it does not offer a credible guarantee of full implementation of the public investment that Parliament can be approved here. Mr President, I said two months ago in the closing speech of the debate on the Government Programme that the PSD would be, in obedience to the mandate given to it by the people, a constructive but harsh, incisive and implacable opposition to the failures of government. That, therefore, is the idea that guides our position with regard to the document we are going to vote here today in general. A position that is not dictated by beer or simply by the will to destroy, but on the basis of the arguments I have just put forward and, fundamentally, on behalf of the programme that we have presented to the Portuguese and the ideas that we have strongly defended for Portugal, because they are, above all, those that determine our vote against this proposal for a State budget. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u321	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u322	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Just over three months ago, the Portuguese gave the PS a significant victory in the legislative elections and strengthened the left-wing majority in the Assembly of the Republic. Four years later, without the devil and proving to be arithmetically possible, Portugal and the Portuguese won. They won with a left-wing majority who returned them income. They won with a left-wing majority who gave them rights. They won with a left-wing majority who gave them their dignity and trust. We have all gained credibility as a country and have gained the right to conquer our future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is better, the Portuguese are better. And it is with the eyes set in the future that we initiate this new legislation. It is with renewed force and with determination as long as we run the Program that the Portuguese chose in the polls. The State budget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is an essential tool for the implementation of the Government's programme. It is with this programme that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is committed to, that is the programme that most Portuguese have chosen for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first budget of the new political cycle and the fifth consecutive budget of the right accounts, and that is also why this is the budget of the Portuguese. The balance of the public accounts represents no more or less, Mr Rui Rio — I could have read this Budget a little better — than an imperative of those who are elected on behalf of the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The correct accounts of the last four years have led to a substantial and consistent fall in the interest rates with which Portugal is financed. With this, we made significant savings in interest bills, Budgets, in each of the previous four budgets. These savings were fully applied, only and only, to improve the lives of Portuguese, boost income, lower taxes and invest in public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for all and especially for the right, the greatest expression of the success of our policy is in the net creation of 350 000 jobs throughout the last legislature, better paid work and with more rights, i.e. decent work in a decent society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This explains the very significant increase in the contribution revenue that the right stubborns to ignore and pretends not to understand. Yes, there are more contributions paid to social security because there are more Portuguese workers and because there are more incomes from work. This is the expression of the success of left-wing governance. This is the dimension of the failure of the speech on the right. If there is something that was even very clear in the last legislature, it is possible to return incomes, increase wages, lower taxes, invest in public services and — stop! — have balanced public accounts, with the best budgetary results in the history of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To the right it is difficult to recognize, but this is really the reality of the country in which we live today in 2020! We maintain a trajectory of reducing public debt and having balanced accounts also enables us to be more secure in dealing with adverse economic contexts, Mr André Ventura. It allows us even greater resilience of our economy, in the face of crisis scenarios, and is even a guarantee for Portugal. We therefore aim to reduce the debt ratio to 100 % of GDP on the horizon of this legislature. Because less debt is more freedom for our country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will not deviate from this path, we cannot even deviate from this path. The Portuguese would not forgive us, especially the younger generations. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Left Block, which we continue in this Parliament at the same pace as we have done in the past. But no, we have not moved forward 10 cm, we have moved forward, and much, with very significant measures, in this State budget, to continue to improve the lives of the Portuguese. You don't want the ladies. Members of the Left Block grab the motor of growth and social justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that life does not begin and does not end in every State budget, and we know that it is only worth having accurate accounts to do so that we will gain freedom to implement public policies that improve the lives of Portuguese. That's our mandate and that's what we're gonna do. This is also why, by balanced public accounts, this is the State Budget that bets on the National Health Service, making the greatest reinforcement ever. In the PS, and on the left in a general way, we know that only a robust SNS ensures access to fair and equal health for all. And if there is a lot of negative propaganda against the National Health Service, which often comes from obscure interests that would like to see privatized health, there are real problems that this Budget gives answers and creates the conditions to solve. We know that there are problems, but we do not generalize these problems to discredit the National Health Service. The Portuguese rely on the SNS, the Portuguese have reasons to rely on the National Health Service, the Portuguese can continue to rely on the SNS, because the National Health Service is a quality brand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Under no circumstances will we leave the Portuguese without a strong, robust, general and universal access and tend to be free of charge. When we vote, from here to now, this State Budget is voting by the National Health Service. The Portuguese deserve that vote. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have more freedom to strengthen measures that promote social cohesion. That is why this budget is advancing in the fight against inequalities and poverty, particularly those of the elderly. This must be everyone's fight. The social state is one of the great achievements of April and this State budget respects this heritage. We must not forget our responsibility for each other and therefore this State budget guarantees the increase of the solidarity complement for the elderly, bringing them closer to the poverty threshold, thus starting the path to poverty eradication; it protects the most vulnerable, in a homeless situation, defending the idea that having a home is a fundamental starting point. This State Budget guarantees full social protection for people with disabilities and reinforces the pilot projects of the Independent Life Support Model, and is for the first time a State Budget that sees all social benefits increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know what the right thinks of social benefits. We are well aware that a certain right, from the most conservative to the most liberal, is largely fed by a speech of stigmatization of social benefits and their beneficiaries. We are here, the PS and certainly the whole left with us, to block this fight in the name of social justice and in the name of equality and a vision of society that leaves no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good that we understand: individual effort and merit are neither disconnected nor antagonistic of solidarity and social justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a State budget for young people, for young people and therefore a State budget for the future. This budget is responsible for the present but also for the future, for our young people, because, having a balanced budget, we are releasing future generations of unsustainable public debts. by not producing deficits we are not creating taxes for the future that weigh in the next generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To have a budget surplus is to ensure that young people in the future do not inherit a debt from the present. We also ensure less taxes for the younger people who enter the labour market today, through the young IRS. Anyone entering the labour market, between 18 and 26 years of age, after completing the degree or professional course, will pay less taxes in the first three years of work. This is a Budget for young people because it increases the family allowance for children between 4 and 6 years of age, because it creates the complement-creche to support families with more than one child and increases the deductions in IRS from the second child, because it extends the hours of day care and launches funding for day care and other social equipment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these two days of debate are even clearer because you do not want this State budget right. I did not want any of the four budgets of the previous state and it is only natural that I do not want this either. Because the right would have gone another way, already plunged into the polls, with more austerity, more inequality, more impoverishment in the country and a country in which each one is in. The right chooses the privatization of health, the cutting of pensions, the privatization of the public transport sector. The right chooses to continue the policy of going beyond the troika, of giving very little and little to everyone else. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the budget of the Portuguese State, which allows the implementation of the programme that the Portuguese have chosen in the elections on 6 October. I would like to end my speech with a word to the parties on our left, leaving a word of confidence: confidence in the work that we will continue to develop in the field of specialty, confidence in which we all know how to interpret the majority will of the Portuguese to continue the path that brought us to the fifth Budget of convergence between the left, of convergence with Europe, of convergence with the Portuguese. It unites us, in our differences, this desire to have a fairer and more solidarity country, unites us with the values of the left. We believe — in particular, I believe — that the Portuguese will have at the end of this legislature what they asked for in the polls: four years of PS government, built in continuous work, always with their partners on the left. I am sure that no one will miss the call and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group here will, with loyalty to the Government, take on all its responsibilities, in the name of political stability and in the name of the improvement of the lives of the Portuguese, honouring the mandate entrusted to us. The PS will honour this commitment to the last day, for the benefit of Portuguese and for the good of Portugal. [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u323	To close this debate generally — I would say, to close the closure — Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In a few minutes, Parliament will take a decision on the proposal for a State Budget Act presented to it by the Government. It is the first of the budgets to be voted on in this Parliament and, in this way, it marks a new political cycle and in the life of the country. The first note on the debate that took place these two days should be to highlight the great change in the way in which a proposal for a budget is discussed today in Portugal. This change stems from the work carried out during the previous legislation. throughout four budgets, built in close dialogue between the government and Parliament, it was possible to transform deeply the perspective that the Portuguese and the world have on Portugal. Four years ago, when the first budget of the legislature was discussed, the issues that distressed the benches sitting on our right were related to what characterized as the "optimist unrealisticism" of growth and employment projections; today, on the same side, criticisms focus on the assumption of little ambition for economic growth objectives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] throughout the last Parliament, on the right side of Parliament, there was shouting against the insufficient rate of government debt reduction ; now we have heard insistent demands for faster tax reduction and increased spending on public services. In fact, financial policy was accused of being irresponsible and public finances were said not to be prepared for the adverse effects of an external shock; it is now maintained that budgetary consolidation was, after all, an easy thing and a wrong objective. The truth is this: in the last two days, the interventions of all banks have based on the fact that the country's economic, social and financial situation is stronger and healthier. Even the criticisms of the honourable Members. Members agree on a perspective that Parliament as a whole shares: that the country can do better; that Portugal can have more social justice; that it can generate more and better employment; that our companies can be more competitive; that public services can have more quality; that the State should invest more in our common future and infrastructures that value our territory and serve our citizens and our economy. The content of the discussion in these last two days and the demands of the Members. Members and the various parties are the best tribute to the country's journey in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a country that has regained ambition, has recovered civic concern and has raised the standard of citizens' demands with their institutions. Not all national problems are solved. They continue to live situations of deprivation, but this is a country that is no longer said to live above its possibilities; it is a country that, on the contrary, feels that many possibilities are within reach of the Portuguese and that it is our duty to all put our common resources at the service of the realization of these ambitions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No longer the focus of parliamentary discussion is conformism with collective impoverishment, but the way we can consolidate more quickly past gains and continue to walk in the direction of a stronger economy and a more just society. This is, therefore, our greatest collective victory, the best legacy, after all, of management. The second note is to point out the poverty of the alternative views for the development of the country, which the opposition affirmed. of the same step that criticized the alleged lack of a strategic vision in this Budget, the opposition refrained from offering one. When he attacked the lack of ambition for the country's growth and criticized the budgetary tools to pursue it, the opposition merely offered, as if it were new or visionary, the most swindled and discredited economic policy tool: the fiscal shock! The great alternative revenue offered to us was the lowering of taxes, this magic tool that would, without more than anything else, generate investment, create jobs and balance — in the future, of course — the public accounts. So many times we've heard this story told in recent decades. For two generations of Bushes, Trumps or Barrosos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u325	Forget about Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u326	The recipe has always failed! Even in countries with more capital and qualifications, the promised growth did not last, the assumed future revenue did not materialize, the inequalities were accentuated, and subsequent governments had to increase taxes even more or reduce public services. Even after a global financial crisis, it seems that among us there are still those who believe that this is a development policy. A fiscal shock is not a strategic vision, it is what presents those who refrain from offering a strategy to the country. On the contrary, this Budget is at the service of a vision for the future of Portugal, the vision that is reflected in the Agenda for the Decade, which we have presented four years ago, which is reflected in the Government Programme and the four strategic challenges for all of us to be convened. Our aim is to build a decade of convergence with Europe, to build a highly developed society, in which productivity growth is based on innovation and qualifications, with a strong social state that leaves no one behind and ensures all the right opportunities here to realize their potential and achieve their personal and professional aspirations free. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This aspiration requires a strong economic base and therefore the growth of the economy and competitiveness are essential factors of the most just society we are building. In the Government Programme, the strengthening of the productivity of our economy is based on: continuing efforts in the qualification of Portuguese; in the growth of research and development; in collaboration between the private sector, the academy and public policies for the strengthening of innovation; in the digital transformation of our companies and in adequate access to the means of financing for investments. The budget proposal is one, but only one, tool to support the achievement of these objectives, but does not exhaust an economic policy. As important as it is, it is the ability to articulate the public and private sector and the institutions of our scientific and technological system, in the modernization and internationalization of our economy, in the dynamization of new areas essential to the change of our standard of specialization, such as space, aeronautics, rail or information and communication technologies, in support of the growth of productivity in the traditional sectors. As important as budgetary measures is to promote access to credit and capital for greater efficiency of public financial institutions supporting the economy. As important as they is the increase in effectiveness in the qualification of our human resources to take full advantage of the opportunities generated by digital transformation. An economic policy goes far beyond budgetary policy and the government does not give up on it, but it knows that sound public finances are a necessary condition for the development and transformation of our economy. The third note to be withdrawn from this debate is intended to record the content of some criticisms made to the budget proposal. Many have criticised the fact that this is presented as a Continuity Budget, suggesting that, since the last few years were of alleged stagnation, the Government would reveal its conformity there. But the truth is that the course of the past few years has allowed all of you. Members shall formulate the requirements which they now present to the Government. Between 2016 and 2019, the gross domestic product will have grown by more than 10 % in real terms and on average by more than 2, 5 % per year. It is a growth that is clearly above the European Union ; it is greater than the growth that Spain, for example, had in the same period. This performance of the economy has been based on robust bases, such as growth by 40 % of the value of exports of goods and services and the very strong growth of private investment, with particular emphasis on the ability to attract foreign direct investment. And it was accompanied by an intense increase in employment, the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, the recovery of the level of the Republic's investment rating, the reduction of the debt cost — below Spain and Italy — and the external debt itself, by the increase in income available and, notable in the context of a monetary policy expressly designed to increase consumption, by a slight rise in the rate of savings of families close to 7 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is indeed the continuation of this process that the Government wants — but even better! Other critics focused on the need to go further. It is true that, in the budget proposal, more effort is made in the qualification and quality of public services and social benefits are strengthened, which is increased spending on public administration workers and that investment is strengthened, but little has been said. You should go further and faster. It is true that taxes on businesses and citizens are reduced and incentives are created for investment, for the qualification of Portuguese, for innovation and for knowledge—but not enough, others said. All taxes should be drastically reduced, and now! And there were still those who said everything and its opposite, at the same time and almost in the same sentence: that taxes are many and that expenditure is little; that debt is high and that surplus is unnecessary. In fact, the star of the debate was even the projected surplus. It is fair: an surplus is unpublished in our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u327	But look at it's a can star!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u328	I imagine it is unpublished in the lives of many of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the most interesting thing is how the surplus planned stimulated the imagination of some of us. Ladies and gentlemen. The surplus would be an obsession of the government, a braveness of the Minister of Finance, a subject to Brussels. It's wrong, they said. The surplus should be used for many and urgent purposes: to reduce taxes, to increase wages, to strengthen investment. But no one mentioned as virtuous the one who, after all, is the true destiny of a budget surplus: the reduction of public debt, which continues to be a constraint to our growth and is a risk factor for future generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The expected surplus, it is recalled, is the consequence of an expanding economy. Increasing profits, wages, consumption and investment, increases tax revenue. However, the surplus that occurs in an expanding economy has an obvious destination: the reduction of public debt, generated at times of recession. at present, public debt interest is low — today we pay less than EUR 2000 million per year than we paid five years ago. Portugal is the country of the European Union whose interest rate has fallen most during this period, the result of our budgetary management and the performance of the economy — and not only of the policy of the European Central Bank, because our interest rate has fallen more than all other countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the interest will rise again at any time. It won't be much, nor will it be right now, but it will happen one day. That is why, at this time at this time of expansion, we must continue to make the effort to reduce public debt. That's not bad. It's good. It's really good. This ensures that in the future the State will continue to have sufficient resources to carry out the necessary public policies and that a future government will not use any external crisis as a pretext to destroy our social state. That is what ensures that future generations will not be burdened with the weight of past deficits and that it guarantees to future governments the freedom to draw the budgets that correspond to the electorate's political choices at every moment. And, as evidenced by this budget proposal and the dialogue we have held over this time with several parties represented here, the reduction of public debt is not incompatible with the maintenance of all gains of the previous legislature and with the development of additional achievements. The surplus that we can present this year is an essential step towards regaining our budgetary freedom. Having achieved the medium-term objective, the country can face with more confidence any negative phase of the economic cycle; it can continue to consolidate, throughout the legislature, social progress; it can maintain, without surprise, the pace of investment in schools, hospitals, transport or housing; it can reduce, in the coming year and consistently, the IRS of the middle classes or continue to support companies investing in their modernization, in the enhancement of their human resources or in the innovation of their products and processes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is only the first of four Budgets of the Parliament and, by starting it on this solid basis, offers our citizens, our businesses and external investors a guarantee of stability and predictability, which is the best condition of confidence for them to risk their lives and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in a global economy subject to all sorts of uncertainties—the trade and technological warfare between the two superpowers to insecurity in the Middle East or political instability in many European countries—the best asset our country has is to present itself as a benchmark of stability, security and responsibility, and that is what we must preserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget proposal was presented in an extremely rapid time. On the other hand, if the planned timetable is achieved, the overall final vote will take place before the end of the legal deadline for its submission, but the short period spent in its preparation was not made at the cost of the government's availability to hear society, economic agents and parties that, throughout the previous legislature, have supported government activity and the approval of previous budgets. We have listened to the Portuguese and we have met the priority that they attach to the National Health Service, which is reflected in the budget proposal by strengthening this century's budget program for health. We have listened to the social partners and included in this proposal some of their suggestions to strengthen the growth of business productivity and to allow the value of labour income. We have heard the parties and reflected in the budget proposal the concerns that have been expressed to us in these contacts. This is a budget proposal that clearly reflects the Government's Programme and the strategic vision for the future of the country, but that is why it has not been built up in dialogue. The general vote, which will take place within minutes, will allow us to begin the debate on the proposal for a Specialized Budget. The Government reaffirms its readiness to carry out changes and densifications in this process to its proposal, many of which have already been discussed with the parties which, throughout the previous legislation, have supported the Government's solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u330	In October, the voters strengthened the parliamentary base that allowed the country to build the trust capital reflected in this budget proposal. They visibly wanted the parties — all the parties! — that they have integrated this parliamentary base could continue to work together to build a more just society and a stronger economy. That is what we will have the opportunity to do in the coming weeks and that is what the government will be committed to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we know — you know the government, you know the parties and you know the voters — that this work does not run out in a budget or legislation. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u331	We have thus reached the end of the debate, in general, of Bill Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. In item three of the agenda, there is, without time allocated for discussion, the Draft of Deliberation No. 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the work of the parliamentary committees during the budgetary procedure, so we will move to point four, i.e. to the statutory voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 227 meetings, to which 2 are added, by Mr José Moura Soeiro, by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, and by Mr André Coelho Lima, by the PSD Parliamental Group, by Mr Pedro Rodrigues, by the PSD Parliamental Group, which makes a total of 229 Members. We therefore have a very strong quorum to vote. We shall then, in general, vote on Law No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, L and 3 PSD (Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques) were adopted.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, L and 3 PSD (Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques) were adopted.]] [[On your feet, applause from the PS.]] This bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote, in general, on Law No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, L and 3 PSD (Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sérgio Marques) were adopted.]] This bill also goes down to 5. the Commission. Mrs Sara Madruga from the Coast, you asked for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u332	Mr President, to announce that the PSD Members elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira will present a statement of vote on these votes. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u333	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We continue with the vote on vote No 136 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Despite the young man mortally stabbed in Campo Grande. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from the CFP and the ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u334	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u335	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u336	Mr President, it is to announce that the NAP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u337	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote for vote No 156 / XIV / 1. a ( Presented by L) — To regret the death of Pedro Fonseca. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for vote No 151 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemnation and grief for the murder of Pedro Fonseca. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 140 / XIV / 1. a ( Presented by L) — To regret the death of Luís Giovani dos Santos Rodrigues. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u338	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u339	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u340	Mr President, it is only to say that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u341	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We continue with the vote on vote No 149 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and regret for the murder of Luís Giovani dos Santos Rodrigues. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for vote No 146 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of regret, condemnation and concern for recent acts of criminal violence that culminated in the death of one young person in Lisbon and another in Bragança. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, CH and IL and L abstention.]] We now vote vote No 148 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PAN ) — To regret the violent deaths of young people Pedro Fonseca and Giovani dos Santos Rodrigues. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u342	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u343	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u344	Mr President, it is only to say, on my own behalf and on behalf of Mrs Isabel Lopes, Members elected by the electoral circle of Bragança, that we will present a statement of vote on Votes Nos 140, 149, 146 and 148 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u345	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. João Paulo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u346	Mr President, it is to inform that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last seven votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u347	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now proceed to the vote on vote No 141 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PS and signed by 1 PCP member ) — Despite the death of Norberto Baroque. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No. 154 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the PAR and subscribed by PS Members )..................................................................................................................... I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote, with many thanks from the President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u348	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « He died last January 4, at the age of 76, Júlio Castro Caldas, former governor and prominent lawyer. Júlio Castro Caldas was a member of the Assembly of the Republic, between 1979 and 1983, elected by the circle of Viana do Castelo, by the PSD. Between 1999 and 2001, he was Minister of Defence of the XIV Constitutional Government, headed by Antonio Guterres. Graduated in law from the University of Lisbon College of Law in 1966, it was noted in the exercise of law. Between 1993 and 1998 he served for two term of office as the Governor of the Order of Portuguese Advocates. He was also President of the Federation des Barreaux d'Europe, between 1997 and 1999, and a voice of the Superior Council of the Public Ministry, from 2001 to 2012. Júlio Castro Caldas was also associated with the foundation of the association SEDES and the Portuguese Arbitration Society. As a member of the government, Member of Parliament or lawyer, Júlio Castro Caldas left a mark of great intellect and vast culture as well as of ease in the deal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Julius Castro Caldas, addressing his most sincere condolences to relatives and friends."
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u349	Thank you very much, Secretary. Before we vote the vote that has just been read, I wanted to greet the family of Júlio Castro Caldas, who is present in the galleries, and to say that, of course, the vote is presented by me but I know that the sorrow is from all of us. Let us therefore vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 147 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS ) — Regret for victims of domestic violence. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will vote for vote No 137 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Condemnation and sorrow for the 35 victims, so far, of the scourge of domestic violence in 2019. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the L.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 144 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and sorrow for the more than 1000 Christians murdered in Nigeria in 2019 by Boko Haram and by radicals fulani. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote vote No 145 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of solidarity and regret for the severe fires in Australia. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with the vote, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government who are leaving, and congratulate them on the general approval of the budget. Let us then proceed with the vote on vote No 135 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for the delay of two months in receiving ballots for the legislative elections by Portuguese emigrants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions to the EPC, the ENP and the L.]] The following vote No 138 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Disclaimer for assault on a doctor during the performance of his duties at the Setúbal hospital. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the L, votes against the CH and the IL and with abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u350	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u351	Mrs. Deputy, what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u352	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote and the following.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u353	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u354	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u355	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u356	Mr President, it is to announce that with regard to vote No 138 / XIV / 1. we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u357	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on vote No 139 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for the continued increase in the number of health professionals assaulted in the performance of their functions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PAN and L, votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against the PCP and the ENP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u358	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u359	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u360	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u361	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will then vote on vote No 142 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PSD and PS ) — Appeal to a diplomatic solution in the dispute between the US and Iran. [[The vote was taken by votes to PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and L and with abstentions from BE, CFP, NAP and ENP.]] We will vote for vote No 150 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Of condemnation and concern for the increase in the war escalation between the United States and Iran. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the L and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u363	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u364	Mr President, it is to announce the entry of a declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u365	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 153 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — Of condemnation and concern for the escalation of tension in the Middle East following missile attacks against American bases in Iraq. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, the votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP and the PS and L abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u366	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u367	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u368	Mr President, it is to announce that the Democratic Social Party will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u369	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote on vote No 143 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Concern about the instability experienced in the Venezuelan Parliament. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, CH and IL and votes against doBE, PCP, ENP and L.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 152 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by BE ) — Condemning for the attack on the producer of the humorous programme Port of the Funds. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and L and with abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u370	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u371	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u372	Mr President, that is to say that I am going to make a statement of vote on the last vote on behalf of the individual.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u373	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u374	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u375	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u376	Mr President, on my own behalf, I will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u377	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u378	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u379	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u380	Mr President, I will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u381	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u382	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u383	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u384	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u385	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let's vote for Resolution Project No 190 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Jerusalem. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u386	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u387	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u388	Mr President, it is to account, and to be registered, that we will deliver a written statement of vote on this last vote and also on Votes Nos 135, 137, 138, 139, 140, 143, 144, 146 and 153 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u389	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. These statements will fill the House's Diary. Mrs. Isabel Moreira, did you ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u390	Mr President, it is to correct my point of vote in relation to the vote on vote No 150 / XIV / 1. the, submitted by the Left Block, which is in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u391	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Nevertheless, it does not alter the outcome of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft resolution No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of parliamentary committees' work during the budgetary procedure. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We also have to vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, which Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will do her best to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u392	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto, Juízo Local Criminal do Porto - Juiz 2, Case No 1238 / 17.7PJPRT, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Rosário Gambôa ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings in the framework of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-10.u393	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to take note of the agenda for the next plenary session, which must be on the way by air. [[Pause.]] We will reconvene on 3 February, Monday, from 10 a.m., for the beginning of the debate, in the specialty, of the bills that we have voted today in general, i.e. Bill Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. I wish everyone a good job during this month and until the next plenary meeting. Thank you very much for your cooperation. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 37 minutes.]]
