ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Before we begin our work, I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to announce the file to the House. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Law Nos 41 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes special public procurement measures and amends the Public Contracts Code and the Code of Procedure in Administrative Tribunals, which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 1. a and 13. a Commission, 42 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of income in non-residential lease contracts in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, which falls to 6. the Commission, 43 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Strengthen taxpayer guarantees and procedural simplification, which goes down to 5. the Commission, 44 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1808, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 on the provision of audiovisual media services, which falls to 12. the Commission, 45 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on board fishing vessels and the activity of seafarers on board ships by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2017 / 159 and 2018 / 131, which falls to 10. the Commission, 46 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2020 - 2022, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 47 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the legally binding lease regime, which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Parliamentary Assessments Nos 21 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June, which amends the organization of coordination and regional development committees, 22 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June amending the organic of the coordination and regional development committees, and 23 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) : — Concerning Decree-Law No 27 / 2020 of 17 June amending the functionalities of the coordination and regional development committees. Bill 455 / XIV / 1 were also admitted. a ( PSD ) — Clarifies the scheme in which workers of the assigning entity are integrated into the transferee entity within the framework of Article 244 ( 4 ). the General Law on Public Works, approved in annex to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which falls to 13. the Commission in connection with 10. the Commission, 456 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Extends the deadline for distance communication by means of local authorities and intermunicipal authorities, making the fifth amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, which falls to 13. the Commission, and 457 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations, approved by Law No 5 / 93 of 1 March, introducing the mandatory participation of civil society persons in parliamentary committees of inquiry, which falls to 1. the Commission in connection with 14. the Commission. Resolution Projects Nos 538 / XIV / 1 were also admitted. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to support assistance to bathers in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by COVID-19, which falls to 3. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission, 539 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — For a strategic environmental assessment for strategic mining and environmental assessments in the regions where exploration and research projects of associated lithium and mineral deposits are under way or are planned, which falls to 11. the Commission, 540 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Strengthening supply of rail transport and complementarity with road transport to ensure safety conditions, low to 6. the Commission, 541 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By raising the layoff in the transport sector, which goes down to 6. the Commission, and 542 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Composition of the Standing Committee. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us start the agenda, with the appeal to the Government No 6 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — About the response to COVID-19 in Great Lisbon in transport and housing. To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The month of defination did not go well in Grande Lisboa. He explained the structural weaknesses that COVID-19 had been able to exploit; however, the problem had already come from behind, as we said in due course. On May 27, we warned, in a political statement, about the problems in transport, housing and work in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. at that time, the numbers were no longer misleading, indicating that 9 in every 10 cases of COVID in the country were located in Grande Lisboa. After about a month, it is clear that we lost time in the answer that was required. Instead of solutions there was a new moral discourse of the pandemic, stigmatizing workers and populations of certain parish, focused on an overvalued individual accountability to the detriment of collective and solidarity responses. Transportation and housing are fundamental parts in how people can, or not, protect themselves and have better conditions to fight the pandemic. It is not new that investment in public transport has suffered, over the decades, a chronic de-investment that has only recently begun to change, although without the necessary breath. And it was not due to the lack of constant warnings on the central importance of mobility, nor was it due to the lack of concrete proposals, even by political choice. Because a change is needed, over the past four years we have made the joint way forward for tariff policies as never seen in Portugal and this was extraordinary, as is seen in popular membership: there was a considerable increase in the number of people to use public public transport, with a greater expression in the metropolitan areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u6	But it didn't all go well: the offer couldn't follow the new search; the problems of full-meter carriages in peak hours were old; the Sintra Line was breaking through the seams many years ago; the boats had come under brutal pressure in recent months and the buses still left much to be desired. We have always warned about these problems and put forward proposals. As expected, the pandemic brought changes to the rules on public transport: the mandatory cleaning actions consistent with the recommendations of the Ministry of Health or the reduction of the maximum number of passengers per transport. However, there was the abolition of trains and, as a result, the overcrowding of carriages and fillings in the stations was aggravated. When the increase in physical distance was claimed, those who kept the country in operation were obliged to the contrary exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u8	Fortunately, there are no more abolished trains, but the irrationality of this decision shows the insensitivity that guided some of the choices. In the phase of defination, DGS ( Directorate-General for Health) implemented standards at the level of hiring of carriages, buses and boats, new hygiene and cleaning rules and also the mandatory use of masks and physical distancement. These measures make sense, of course, but could not have been unaccompanied from a previous reflection on two essential points: first, the adequacy of frequencies throughout the network, replacement of wagons, buses and boats and the alternative strategy for cases of need; and second, the end of the layoff in the transport sector companies. Sadly, that didn't happen. The Minister has said, insistently, that the CP (trains of Portugal) is operating at 100 % on the Sintra Line in particular. Are you aware that before the pandemic a'regular' Sintra Line service already presented daily difficulties? Therefore, 100 % of an insufficient service is not a solution, it is still a problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u10	in this case, and being the old problem, it is not understandable that the government tries to pass through raindrops, saying that the replacement of the offer is all done, so there is nothing else to do, people who use mask and disinfect their hands. And this is even less understandable for the population who uses this transport every day. They should and could have been guarded solutions of complementarity earlier, reassess as the time of decoupling advanced and adjusted needs from there, and not the other way around! [[Congratulations from BE.]] in the same way, there is not a single user, anywhere in the country, who understands what is happening with buses. at the same time as companies continue to receive due benefits from public service contracts, they are not providing this service and are still in layoff, harming users and workers. When the economy is decoupled, the means of transport cannot be kept confined. As you can easily see, people’s confidence in the use of public transport is fundamental and it is not enough to say that it is all right for people to feel this in their daily lives. It is not because the government says that there is no overcrowding that people stop travelling too often without conditions to maintain any physical distance. We already know how statistics and the media work, but the problem is not the 3 o'clock train that goes empty, it is the 7 o'clock in the morning that goes « to the pine ». It is not with statistics such as these that the pandemic is blocked. Mr Minister, the complaints we have received are daily and a little about all the means of transport. It is the case of Maria, who picks up, before 7 o'clock in the morning, a bus from the TST (Transportes do Sul do Tejo ) that comes to the market, then catch a boat and then a metro. John takes the boat, metro and train to work at a distribution center in Great Lisbon. These are fictional names of many cases that have come to us, but they are daily portraits. What is the point common to all of them? It's the insecurity they still feel, even though they don't have any other option if they don't want to lose income. So the question remains: will the government continue to ignore this and insist that the solution is more supervision and fines? Before that it is urgent to provide all conditions for people to move. Is the government available to ensure alternatives that unlock the service offered? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, the same applies to housing conditions, where alerts are no longer new, unfortunately. There is a concentration in the Lisbon region of housing centres with poor conditions, which do not guarantee people security in their protection and in the protection of their families. On May 29, the Prime Minister announced a resettlement plan for people living in precarious and overcrowded housing. He said at the time, and I quote: « We will work to develop an emergency relocation plan ». But the days go by and the only thing you see moving is the number of infected. Minister, how is that plan? Since then, the only changes verified have been no more than admissions from those who were infected. What housing responses have actually been given to these people, not to be an extra guilt that has so much been heard in recent days? We have often said that no one can be left behind and, on the side of the Left Block, I say seriously. The new outbreaks, particularly in the Lisbon region, do not result in anyone transforming defination into a kind of hare or, of course, individual contempt for DGS advice. In many cases, they result from working conditions, housing and transport of people working in professions that have never even had the right to confine themselves. Together with all this, confusion within the government does not help at all. We have heard today the Minister of Health say that the lack of distance in public transport is not associated with identified cases. António Sales, Secretary of State, on 29 June, said that the situation in public transport could be a cause for concern. But, then, can DGS not draw the contact lines of the contagios? The Minister yesterday in the Commission admitted that there may be a risk of transmission on the train, but he chose to relativise the matter. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government narrative on the case of Great Lisbon and public transport does not match the reality felt by thousands of people, and it devalues a serious problem that cannot be devalued in any way. We all want solutions to be found and problems solved. But it is not because of not talking about them that they will disappear and is not trying to create a narrative of individual guilt that we will be able to overcome this situation. It's also not because you put your head in the sand waiting for it to pass. It is with debate and with concrete proposals, such as those which the Left Block has already presented in this area, that we will be able to help the population to combat the pandemic, which we must all continue without individual tapestry and guilt. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u11	To speak on behalf of the Government, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has been called upon to comment on the impact of the pandemic situation on public transport and housing in the area of Great Lisbon. It is an important debate that the Left Block, on its own initiative, gives us the opportunity to do here. Let me just tell you, Mrs. Isabel Pires, that the narrative it assigns to us is not the government narrative. Pay attention to what I'm going to say to understand what the government's narrative is. I wanted to start by saying that we understand well the feeling of uncertainty and insecurity that the people live when, in the current context, they have to use urban rail transport. The Portuguese who travel on urban trains to make their lives were already discussing problems before the exceptional moment in which we live, and the pandemic context only exacerbated them. The train is by definition a space of collective experience of mobility and, in the times in which we live, sharing in the same closed space can generate legitimate feelings of insecurity. But understanding and respecting the feelings of the people is only one of our obligations as representatives of the people. The other, as political decision-makers, is to solve their problems. To solve the problems we need to make the correct diagnosis and, to do so, we need adequate information. What does the best information available tell us? It tells us that the rates of occupation of trains on the urban lines, at peak hours, are still much below the pre-COVID period. A number is sufficient to realize the difference: if in the period prior to the pandemic the Sintra-Azambuja Line had an average lotation, in peak hours, above 80 %, it rounds at this time the 30 %, using the same evaluation and quantification parameters. Attention, this does not mean that everything is okay, even because of the approximately 662 urban trains that CP operates daily in Great Lisbon we occasionally have some that reach about 66% of the lot. It means, above all, that, in addition to the humility that obliges us to listen to the people who use rail transport, we must also listen to those who have strict information, who know the operation of the lines and trains they travel there and who help us avoid false or fragile alternatives and identify solutions in the short and long term. It's just, we know, fake or fragile alternatives abound. For example, it is not possible to add trains to the Sintra Line trains because they already occupy the entire platform. And it is not possible to immediately add more trains to a line where CP's offer is 100 % since May 4 not only because we still lack circulating material but because any change in schedules on the Sintra Line has impacts on a large set of passenger trains and goods circulating on the many national lines. Finally, we do not reject it but we do not have many expectations in the solution that goes through buses to complement the train. It is easy to see why: a train on the Sintra Line, with maximum lotion, transports 2000 people and connects all stations in 40 minutes; a full bus would take 50 people and it would take twice or triple the time to make the same journey. This means that, if we wanted to add to our offer the equivalent of a train, we would have to inject 40 buses at the peak time, and, as it could not be on the railway line, it would have to be in IC19. A train for 40 buses, two for 80 and out there. And there are 660 trains that travel to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area daily. A working group was set up between the infrastructures of Portugal and the CP to study, in the coming months, a way to inject at least one more train per hour on the Sintra Line. Faced with the constraints of line capacity, this is the possible improvement. In the long term, in addition to the increase in the number of trains, only the quadrupling of the link between the Area and the Eastern Railway Station — provided for in the National Investment Programme ( NIP) 2030 — will allow us to overcome the constraints that prevent us today from strengthening the supply on the Sintra Line. Without this investment in rail infrastructure we cannot add trains, and during the debate we can better understand why. But I would like to stress again: today, when we are doing this debate, there is still, from a global point of view, the provision of trains on the urban lines. The demand is still much lower than in the period prior to the pandemic and the two-thirds lotion is accomplished in the overwhelming majority of trains, even in peak hours. We will also have the opportunity to debate a little bit about the possibilities of distance on trains.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u13	And to see the pictures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u14	Attention, we do not ignore that the demand trend, from here to the front, will be to increase. What we have to ensure, yes, is that the best public health safety and defence practices continue to be followed, that trains are properly hygienicized, that the people who travel in them always wear masks and that the distribution of people through carriages avoid unnecessary agglomerations. We all know that we live divided between contradictory pressures: the people depend on public transport to travel every day to make their lives, but they also need to protect themselves and feel safe when they travel. And it's not easy to find the best solution. I recall that while the maximum two-thirds of public transport in Portugal is in force in many European countries — most of them like Spain, France, Germany, Belgium, Sweden, Finland, and so on — the authorities decided that it was not possible to set explicit limits on the maximum number of trains and buses. They certainly do not do so because they are insensitive to safety but because they believe that strict limits cannot be imposed on the daily mobility needs of millions of people. It would be good if the country could walk to a meeting in the hours of entry into work, because this would reduce the concentrated pressure of the search. While this is not possible, we will all have — politicians, businesses and the population — to seek the best balance at every moment between the need to use public transport to live and work and the right to do so in security and tranquillity, that is, use them at this stage for the most essential tasks in each person's life, in particular to work. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: As far as housing is concerned, the difficult moment in which we live has only aggravated the difficulties that existed in the period prior to the pandemic. For decades, successive government housing policies have never aimed at creating a public park capable of constituting an alternative to the market. The former Special Plan of Realisation was a program aimed only at the eradication of the barracks and limited to the metropolitan areas, but still an important example of what has been done in the past. The result of this omission, of this abandonment, of the failure of the State, was already well visible in recent years, with young families experiencing enormous difficulties in accessing a house to rent or buy in large urban centers. And if this was so in years of reducing unemployment and increasing income, it is even more complicated in a context where, with the stopping of the economy, the result of the pandemic context, many families lost their jobs and saw their income fall. The risk of non-compliance with income and loans is real and requires urgent government responses. Program 1. the law, developed in cooperation between the central administration and the authorities, aims to respond to situations of housing shortage, ensure safety and health conditions and dimensions appropriate to the various family aggregates. Unfortunately, it is a program that will take your time to respond to all needs. Therefore, since the beginning of the pandemic, we have sought — Government and Parliament — to take measures to ensure the protection of our citizens in housing, preventing people from being discharged or having their contracts terminated during the most acute phase of the pandemic and ensuring that they were not penalized for late payment of their incomes or that they could use the financial support of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute (IHRU) to ensure it. The small public housing park in Portugal is only 2% of the total, which does not allow the State to meet the urgent needs of many Portuguese and immigrants. Solutions were found with tourist accommodations, youth hostels and military facilities, but these answers are not appropriate. That is why the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ( PEES) provides for the creation of a national emergency recovery grant to address, for example, disaster or pandemic situations. It is also necessary to recognise that some measures have had a limited impact. This is the case with IHRU's financial support for the payment of income, where not only were the applications received 2000 but only about 500 were the cases already authorised. The delay in response is large and is not compatible with the degree of urgency of families. Unfortunately, the reasons lie with IHRU's limited ability to implement not only this programme but also to fulfil all the new responsibilities assigned to it—in fact, it is not IHRU's, obviously, government. That is precisely why we want all applications to be approved within one week, through a declaration of honor, and examined in the next 60 days. In view of the lack of human resources and the time it takes to contract, this is the least bad solution, in view of the urgency of families. Emergency contexts require emergency measures and the Government's obligation is to address the needs of families in good time. But this context guided by urgency should not make us lose sight of our first ambition, which is to constitute a robust public housing park. This will even be the most effective way of responding to the needs of access to decent housing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current pandemic context led many to seek...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u16	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the current pandemic context has led many to seek immediate responses in the state to the health and economic crises and to the impacts they have and are still having on the lives of Portuguese people. This was the case in health, social security or at work. This is also the case in public transport and housing, which we are debating here today. This crisis has shown the importance of having a public enterprise such as the CP, which has not dealt with the State to provide and maintain the supply to 100 % since May 4, and has also shown the importance of the State to hold a public housing park to meet the needs of families. I believe, therefore, that this is the most important lesson we can draw from this crisis: a state is all the more capable and fast...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u17	Mr Minister, I ask you to conclude. You have several moments, later, in which you can intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u18	I was right in the last sentence, Mr President, allow me just to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u19	So please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u20	I believe, therefore, that this is the most important lesson we can learn from this crisis: a state is all the more capable and speedy in response to an emergency as the state is strong before the emergency occurs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u21	Mrs. Members, the Bureau does not record entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Isabel Pires, but, on the other hand, records 15 entries for requests for clarification to the Minister. I don't know how Mr. Minister wants to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u22	I will respond to groups of five, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u23	All right, Minister. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, first of all, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister is in a state of denial. You can continue to say that there are no problems in transport in the metropolitan area of Lisbon,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u25	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u26	... that trains are not overcrowded, that average occupation is in acceptable numbers and that these are the numbers that existed before the pandemic and with a two-thirds lotion. But these numbers are easily disassembled. Every day we see thousands of workers and workers in overcrowded transport, without any possibility of maintaining the physical distance to which the pandemic situation obliges us. Transport does not need to be overcrowded to constitute a serious risk to public health, it is sufficient to have the high occupation of the pre-pandamy period. That would be pretty serious. The result is that these workers and workers who live on the outskirts of Lisbon every day risk their health to come to their jobs. The Minister knows as well as we do that the number of public transport users is not constant throughout the day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u27	I know better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u28	Of course, it focuses on so-called peak hours, especially at the beginning and end of the day. It is therefore that their means are deceptive and mask a reality that is easily verifiable if we travel, for example, on a Sintra Line train at the beginning of the morning or we are attentive to the many reports and images that come to us. This situation is unacceptable and it is urgent to correct it, Minister. We cannot regret the large number of cases of coronavirus infection that persist in the Lisbon area and nothing to do to improve the conditions of transport in the country with the highest population density. He said that he could not increase the number of trains—well, he said that he was going to increase the number of trains at the end of a composition—and that they were all in circulation. We are well aware of these limitations, the result of the de-investment and impoverishment of the transport sector, but these constraints cannot serve as a pretext for inaction. There are alternative measures that can be taken, either by adjusting schedules or by guaranteeing alternative means of transport, in addition to those which the Minister has already indicated in this debate. And yes, I have been attentive to the debate. That is why, because I am careful, I ask you again, Minister, what urgent measures will the Government implement in order to solve the problem of overcrowding transport in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, which has contributed so much to the worsening of the public health situation, beyond what Mr has now presented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u29	You now have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, first of all, with regard to rail transport and the situation of CP trains, it must be stressed that looking at numbers and train occupation statistics cannot justify ignoring or disregarding the specific situations of people, the problems that people experience in their day-to-day lives. We have repeatedly called attention to the conditions under which users are transported and to the need to ensure that they respond to problems caused by passengers and users. Mr President has already confirmed that the current capacity of the CP in the rolling stock either of the railway infrastructure does not allow an immediate response to the number of trains in these suburban lines, but we insist that it is necessary, first and foremost, to create conditions for the management and organisation of the operation of transport, at stations and within trains, at facilities and at accesses, in the delimitation of spaces and in their signaling. When we talked about these matters—and none of this has been done and should have been done for months now—and we asked the Minister about them, Mr Minister referred only to this marginal increase in the CP's offer. The Minister has now confirmed, in his speech, that there are currently trains where, in the overwhelming majority — that is what he said — the rule of the two-thirds lotion is not being complied with. The problem is there, Minister : under current conditions, 100 % of the circulation means less than one third of the offer. In other words, 66 % of the occupation is exhausted. In road transport the situation is even more serious: with layoff in companies, the State has been paying private companies to have stopped buses and workers with cut wages. The offer is now returned to 90 %, or, rather, to two thirds of 90 %. This is, in fact, the perspective of the Supplementary Budget, to finance the transports in this measure. What the CFP proposed in the Supplementary Budget was to establish justice and of course the need to guarantee and finance the circulation not to 90 % but to 100 %. It is regrettable, however, that the PS voted against and that the PSD and the CDS, with its abstention, have plunged this measure, which was necessary to restore and guarantee the supply of transport that people need. That's not how we're going there, Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u31	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, the pandemic has exacerbated existing social and economic problems. We have seen more cases of infection in situations of lower housing dignity, use of crowded collective transport and conditions of precarious work. We have heard the concerns of people who daily fulfill their health responsibilities but who, day by day, are confronted with conditions of public transport that make social distancing impossible. At present, people are forced to choose between protecting their health and that of others or taking risks to maintain their jobs. What answers, Minister, do we give to people who transmit to us that they are afraid of being infected and infecting their family members or colleagues because they do not have safe transportation conditions? A worrying and uncontrolled situation of COVID-19 cases in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon emerged and, strangely, we see the government claiming that it does not understand the reasons. Today, it is because of the behaviour of people, tomorrow, because of the civil construction, then because of the young people's assemblies, but it is not faced with the situation of collective transport, which, for most people, is the only way to travel. Meetings are prevented, but workers are forced to put their health and public health at risk daily in public transport, where people are glued to each other. Fines are imposed for voluntary meetings of 10 people, but it is not invested in improving the supply and safety of public transport. Why are there no adjustments in strengthening the number of boats, the number of trains, buses or subway trains?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u33	Where are they?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u34	Minister, the virus likes social life, but it also runs public transport! How does the Government intend to solve the problem without the better conditions in public transport? We also know that some of the main transmission sites occurred as a result of cohabitation and lower housing condition, often associated with work precariousness and the less favourable social and economic condition. What plans does the Government have to solve the housing problems of working communities that have no other solution but cohabitation under conditions incompatible with health control?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u35	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate takes place at a crucial stage in combating the pandemic. We are at a critical time when either the health authorities take serious and strengthened measures to control the pandemic or continue to do so and the outbreak will avenge, with unpredictable consequences for Portugal and the Portuguese. According to the authorities, the main focus of the outbreak spread is public transport. Therefore, the PSD is concerned about the increasing demand for them, the result of the return to normal economic and social life. But we were really surprised, Minister, when, yesterday, we heard him announce that it is unviable to comply with the rules of social distance on trains. So I would ask: shouldn't I have expressed this opinion before DGS imposes the standard? That announcement is now nothing but a state of mind, Minister! Mr Minister, the transport authorities must ensure the existence and compliance of contingency plans and monitor their implementation, including security and user-to-user distance measures. It is not enough to analyze photographs and user perceptions. It happens that there are authorities that are not complying with these rules because they do not have how to execute them. They also say that no one has associated with them or, at least, have been called for combat coordination meetings. Mr Minister, another of the problems — and this is a serious failure — is the lack of joint ventures, taking into account the intermodality of transport systems throughout the Metropolitan Area, including interfaces and timing in the various modes of transport. The Lisbon Road Transport Authority cannot even identify when the maximum occupancy rates are exceeded because the only mechanism available is the OTLIS (Lisbon Region Transport Operators) which only gives them information within one month.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u37	Not trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u38	Mr Minister, the installed capacity of the pre-COVID-19 transport system remains the same after the COVID-19. In short: it was already insufficient before, it remains weak now, but with the inconvenience of being limited in peak hours and the situation becomes potentially uncontrollable because of the failure to comply with DGS standards and the shortcomings of the transport system. Mrs. Government members, there are transport companies still in layoff. Does anyone understand that, in a pandemic situation, with increased transport needs, there are still workers at home, with paid cuts and stopped buses, with government support measures for these companies? Mr Minister, I have another question: is a time-maximizing study on the Sintra Line taking three months, according to your words? I think any computer algorithm gives you a solution in a few minutes. I find it unbelievable that Sintra users have to wait for new and better times for three months. Mr. Minister, I'll give you an alert. Walking as a can sardine before the COVID-19 was a matter of discomfort,... [[PS protests.]] ...now, with the COVID-19, it became a public health issue and, as such, the country demands the government's responsibility and serious responses to the citizens and fewer stories of carochinha. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u39	I have the floor, for the last request for clarification of this set of five, Mr Ricardo Leão, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u40	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it should always be remembered that, after years and years of de-investment in public transport,... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] ... it was this same PS government that, through the implementation of a set of measures, where the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Transport) stands out, achieved an increase in demand and supply of public transport and it was this same government that managed people to believe again and use these same public transports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the effects of this pandemic, among others, was the sharp fall in demand for public transport, which was set in the order of 90 %, resulting in very significant reductions in the revenues of carriers, and difficulties in ensuring the natural increase in the supply of transport during the process of defining and returning to some normality. The PS Parliamentary Group does not deny it and assumes it, but what is also true, and we must recognise, is the Government's effort to do everything possible to enable this increase in supply. And already with positive effects, Mrs. Member of the Left Block. In addition, with recent statements by André and José, they also use public transport and with fictional names, as well. Therefore, Mr. Minister and Mr. If, on the one hand, we had public transport operators such as CP, Soflusa, Transtejo, TCB ( Collective Transport of the Barriers ) and Carris, who, despite the financial constraints they also had, have always ensured this increase in supply, assuming their role as public transport service, on the other hand, asked the Government what can be said about private road hauliers, since the government has transferred more than €65 million to increase that offer to 90 % from today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u41	It should be 100 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u42	in this sense, recognizing — and I think it is legitimate — the efforts of this government in this area, which guarantee us that this offer will be met and in which it will be implemented, given that there are some more overburdened careers and times than others?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u43	What about the subway? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u44	Since I don't have much more time, I just wanted to say the following: it is true that there is precariousness in the housing, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. I therefore ask: what is the situation with regard to the evolution of the municipal plans for the eradication of housing precariousness, particularly in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, particularly in the Loures municipality, where the situation is serious—and I know well what I am talking about—and not the government's fault? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u45	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u46	Calm down, take a deep breath.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u47	Even when it's Mr. Deputy, I'll take it easy. Don't be afraid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to assume from the principle that each of us individually is concerned and that one member of the government or another party is not. I think we're all worried. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no denial of the problem, even because the problem is, in fact, old. We had the opportunity to promote meetings with the honourable Members. Presidents of the Chamber of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, in particular with the city halls whose councils are crossed by the Sintra Line and the Cascais Line, and also with a representative of each parliamentary group,... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] ... I say, of the parliamentary groups represented in the Committee on Transport — you are right, Mr Member — outside the context of parliamentary debate, so that we can, together, realize how we can respond to the constraints, which are real and that we are facing. First, I just wanted to tell Mrs Beatriz Dias that, when we talk about media, we refer to the media at the right time. And then, as I have also heard doubts about it, it is the average peak hours of trains that go in the direction with cargo, that is, in the morning Sintra-Lisboa and in the afternoon Lisbon-Sintra. That's how the averages are calculated. They are not calculated by government members, they are calculated by CP and IP workers ( Infrastructures of Portugal ). It is not us who invented them; they are only an important tool for our analysis and for our work. As many of you have said. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be alone in the media, first because we already have several trains with high pitches and then because there is a real perception of insecurity that cannot be devalued. Mr. Carlos Silva was talking about the distance, and I think Mr. André Silva too. Let us, honestly, look at the train and address this issue. What is recommended to us is a physical distance of two meters, but to have a distance of these in a train we could not have a lot higher than 10 %. We could accept a solution to these, but then the railway was not serving the needs of our population. Just to get an idea of what we're talking about on the Sintra Line, a train that, in the maximum load, can take 2000 people, with a 50 % lot already takes 1000 people. It's always a lot of people for any citizen on an urban train. Let us now take note of this fact, which is very important for our work: one third of the rental on a Sintra Line train are all the seats. Now, with all the seats occupied, we have a third of the lot and we can't meet the distance. We are faced with a real difficulty here. As we have companies to open,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u48	Talk to DGS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u49	... that we have the economy to resume work at the point where it stopped, we really need a response from public transport. It is not possible to aspire to return to work at the same time that we have heavily restricted public transport in their lot. Two-thirds, as Mr Bruno Dias said, when we reach the two-thirds, in the overwhelming majority of the trains, at peak hours, we are already imposing a very strong limitation on the access of the populations to their places of work. It's just not more serious today, because we still have some workers working...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u50	DGS doesn't speak in two meters, it talks in two thirds!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u51	We can always be upset with each other, but we can also try to understand each other's points without having to be angry with each other. And I'm talking against myself! [[PSD laughter.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u52	It's consciousness talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u53	Also, it's true too. But we need to realize that, in fact, we are here imposing a cut of a third and the problem is only not more serious because we still have workers in telework and, unfortunately, many in layoff.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u54	And many driving!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u55	As the recovery begins, the pressure on public transport will return, in a very sharp manner, because it was so before the COVID-19. We're not running away from numbers. Once again, the averages were the same. Prior to the COVID-19, at peak time, we had trains on the Sintra Line with 160 % occupancy rate. The situation is indeed very serious and we have not been able to resolve it with some of the measures presented here. It's not possible. We couldn't deal with the ability to transport a train with buses. That's not viable! It is not feasible from the point of view of capacity — there were tens and dozens of buses coming from Sintra and Amadora, through IC19, Lisbon, nor from the point of view of travel time. We would have an incomparable journey duration. It would only be good for anyone who likes the railroad, as is my case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u56	What would I do if I didn't like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u57	...to prove that no means of transport beats rail transport. Unfortunately, it wasn't for us to solve the problem. As for the change in the management and organisation of schedules, which Mr Bruno Dias here mentioned, in fact, the essential thing is to be able to adjust the timetables. Mr. Carlos Silva criticizes and is disgusted that we need three months, but he believes that if we could do it in less time. Firstly, it is important not to forget that, at the moment we are talking about, an extra train would not solve much, because the lot is low, below 50 %, below 30 %, depending on the trains, and that we will need this in September. However, we have no illusions: this work, which takes that time—and I will explain why—will never allow a very significant transformation in the number of trains we have in circulation. We can marginally find channel space to set up another train. And it takes us a long time to do the study because the trains of the Sintra Line "disargum" — I don't know if I can use this word from a technical point of view — or, better, confluence on the Belt Line in Lisbon, as well as on the Belt Line also merge the trains of Fertagus, the freight trains of the port of Lisbon, the trains going to the Algarve and the trains coming from the North Line. Now, when we change the time of a train on the Sintra Line, we have to be thinking about the time when another will leave Guimarães. So, when you're building, thinking about it, see if you can get more space to have another train on the Sintra Line, if you have to work all the hours, so this takes your time. It is a work that must be done with seriousness and competence. So it's like we're intervening at different times. Right away, what could we do? Right away, we made a lotion restriction. Let me mention some countries, just to make a relativization of what we are doing in Portugal. Belgium, Spain, France, Germany, Sweden, Slovenia, Finland, Austria and the United Kingdom have no restrictions on public transport. And it's not because they're insensitive. They have the same problems as we, and twice, because they have urban centres with much more intensive use of public transport. This is the case of Berlin, Paris or London, so we don't go to Hong Kong or Tokyo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u58	No one's checking here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u59	Therefore, the first time is to restore the offer to 100 %, clean trains every day, if possible more than once a day, ensure that the mask is used mandatoryly, and we promote the distance at the station and train, in order to try to make a better distribution of people through different trains.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u60	But that's not just for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u61	This immediately, it's obvious. With three months to work, we will see if, with changing schedules, we can increase, even marginally, the capacity on the Sintra Line in time. This is a debate we have to do as soon as possible. It is that we have all been late—not all, but come on, who has ruled over the last few decades—the quadrupling of the Area to the Eastern Railway Station, which is essential. We have a « gargalo » in the Areeiro, which ends up having consequences until the beginning of the Sintra Line. If we succeed in quadrupling the Area to the Eastern Railway Station, we will probably also be able to double the Sintra Line capacity. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Mr, but I'm saying in phase three. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] Okay, but if we don't decide today, five years from now,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u62	In five years there was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u63	Okay, we know. We know, Mr. Paulo Neves. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] It is difficult that way, because Mr. Paulo Neves has this strong voice, but I will try to explain, not to stay in the air.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u64	He's very sensitive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u65	We are making the investment of the 2020 Railway. It's being done. The quadrupling of the line between the Area and the Eastern Gare is in the 2030 PNI. Alongside this, it will be made the purchase of rolling stock, which we do not currently have available in Portugal, even if we had the infrastructure with the ability to receive more trains. So we have to intervene at this point in three moments. Criticisms are legitimate, deserved,... [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] ...the investment should have been made longer in our government and in yours, Mr. We share, unfortunately, these sad responsibilities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u66	Sweet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u67	Okay, I'll take mine. to the other requests for clarification I will answer next, because I still have two more blocks of answers. I'm sorry, but then I'll go back to the house. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u68	Mr Minister, you have five further requests for clarification. To make the next request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has presented himself here today as the Minister of Trains. The problem is not that! It was hoped that the government would bring an optimistic, affirmative scenario that what it is doing is done and little more is needed, or possible, by trying to pass the idea that it is not in transport the source of so many contagions in recent weeks. We've been expecting numbers, percentages and schedules of trains running empty or a little more. The words of the representative of the Government will certainly serve to comfort all those who are faced with difficulties on a daily basis. the bus user, who has seen careers being abolished even though companies continue to receive compensation, will be of comfort to him that the government says there is no problem. The metro user has to push people to fit in the carriage, and this happens at the most several hours of the day. As soon as the composition progresses and it gets stuck between the neighbor's masks and the door glass, you will think it's all right, because the percentage of use indicated on the Ministry's website is not even very bad. The worker who comes on the boat continues to face difficulties in the service provided, but will always think that now is less bad than before, although it is certain that it is not possible to carry out the proper hygiene between the trips. The user who goes on the train and has no place to sit, making the trip side by side to all others who share his fortune, has not yet been convinced that this, as Mr. Prime Minister said, happens only on the 6h48m train. The reality has these things: it's stubborn, it's persistent; it likes to show itself, even if the rulers know it's not right. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a mistake to reduce the public transport service to the point at which it has come. The myth was created that there were no users. That's not true. There are no, yes, options and times and users were being pushed for the use of their own car or to mount themselves in the remaining transports. It was a mistake to keep public transport crowded for weeks without introducing reinforcements or deployments, while the workers of these companies were at home, in layoff, losing wages. It is a mistake to insist on the idea that there are no problems and that little or nothing can be done, and it is a mistake in three plans. First of all, it is a mistake because transport 'à pinha', as we continue to see in shocking images, means possibilities of contagion, which is indispensable to avoid. Secondly, it is a mistake because the feeling of insecurity that these images induce will result in setbacks as much as it has progressed with the reduction in the price of public transport in the last two years. The country needs people in public transport to spend less fossil fuels and to combat the energy deficit. Portugal needs more people in public transport to reduce emissions of polluting gases. But for this, it is essential to have more supply, a quality offer, often hygiene, with schedules serving the needs of the population. Thirdly, it is a mistake because it is the rights of the poorest, those who even depend on this public offer to ensure their right to mobility, to be able to win their bread, to have access to health, to enjoy culture, to have access to all public services. As always, the government's options go in one direction and always in the same direction. For businesses, for economic groups, there will always be a fund of the Budget to ensure more support. In order to respond to population problems, it is increasingly difficult. There is always the deficit and the balance of public accounts to be disturbed. No, Mr Minister, it is not the deficit that hinders, it is the options of the Government and the PS, as it has also seen by rejecting the ENP proposal, to ensure more than 40 million euros to finance public transport. Imagine, it's not just the ENP that says it's necessary to reinforce the money. Mr President of the Mobility and Transport Authority also said he was not sure that the value provided for in the Supplementary Transport Budget would be sufficient. The answer is the investment in the present to secure and guarantee the future. Looks like nothing they've learned from the past. This option is also appropriate in terms of investment in housing. The last few years have been dramatic in this regard. On the one hand, there was a deep disregard for this constitutional right, and the public fires placed at the disposal of people who need to be made available by the Central Administration can almost be counted on their fingers. On the other hand, the pressure of tourism has led to gross increases in housing costs, whether renting or buying, with a clearly speculative market. Now, people jump from crowded houses to crowded public transport and how many times to workplaces where safety and health protection measures are minimized. The question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, it is easy to put: for now and in the future, what measures will be taken to ensure these two essential rights, namely the right to housing and the right to mobility? Because, Mr Minister, when the authorities enter the social neighbourhoods to disperse young people who are living together—which is necessary for their well-being and mental health—they can, when weld the doors of bars, give the idea that they are taking action, but they are clearly not doing what is necessary. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u70	Good afternoon to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I also congratulate the Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, the Secretary of State for Housing and the Members of the House. Under-Secretarys of State and Communications, Infrastructure and Parliamentary Affairs. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u71	Madam President, Minister, we have worrying numbers in the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region. About 9000 Portuguese are infected and about 15 000 are under surveillance. These numbers are worrying, but there are also worrying signs of discoordination in the government. Mr Minister, I told you yesterday, and I repeat: Mr Minister is in a state of denial. There is overcrowding in trains, buses, metro. There are thousands and thousands of Portuguese who take risks every day. I will give you two examples, in this case, of trains. Yesterday, Mr Minister said that the average lot at peak hours, i.e. in terms of train capacity, between Azambuja and Lisbon was only 22 %, i.e. only if 22 % of its capacity was being used at peak hours—I am being strict, that is what the Minister said yesterday—and that in the Cascais Line, between Cascais and Lisbon, in terms of hiring, only 13 % of the maximum capacity was being used. These are the two issues that the Minister presented yesterday to Parliament. Mr Minister, I would like to point out that in the case of Lisbon-Cascais or Cascais-Lisboa, where there are 17 stations and terminals, only five stations have entry control — there is no other means of checking who enters or who goes out — and that, in the case of Alcântara-Terra-Azambuja, where there are 26 stations and terminals, only one station, Campolide has entry control. So these numbers show very little credibility and contrast, above all, — and so I tell you, Minister, that you are in a state of denial, with reality. The Minister simply calls a television or reads a newspaper to check—and it is not the opinion of journalists, as I said yesterday, it is not the Correio da Manhã or the SIC (Independent Society of Communications) but all the newspapers, all the television channels that say so—that, when the population is confronted and heard, it says precisely that there is no distance and therefore there is risk. Mr Minister, a month ago, in a 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister — we were not yet at this critical stage, but there were already trains, buses and the Metropolitan himself was overrun — the parliamentary leader of the CDS, from this same bench questioned Mr Prime Minister in order to know why there was no differentiation of working hours and why there was no way to avoid concentration. This was a suggestion the CDS presented a month ago. We're talking about a simple, fast measure that would have no cost. I leave this to you. Minister, what is it that Carlos Carreiras, an excellent example of an author who has been able to answer and deal with this crisis, has come today? Oh, my God! That there is an excess lotion in buses, in intermunicipal careers. It also defends a sanitary fence to transport in Cascais. But say more. It says that, in relation to trains, there are also overcrowding at some times. So it's not just the CDS, it's not just the journalists, it's not just the population that says this! There are several people who also say so. Even Mr. Prime Minister! We have heard Mr. Prime Minister today say that he accompanies the frustration of Medina. They're both frustrated. I don't know if Mr. Minister is also frustrated or not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u72	Of course not! It's impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u73	... but these are Mr. Prime Minister's words. Today too — and I shall finish — the Minister of Health said that transmission chains are out of control. I would say that there is also a lack of control in the field of political coordination. Let us see: in the Lisbon region, what has the government appointed? He appointed a State Secretary for coordinator of the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region ; then he has a regional health delegate ; then he has a regional intervention office, which was born a long time ago ; he also has the President of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. The question is: who coordinates all these people? Oh, my God! What we are witnessing every day is a lack of political coordination from the government. For this reason, the CDS will still deliver a request today to listen to Mr. Coordinator of the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region and to hear Mr. President of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, Dr. Fernando Medina. It is urgent, Mr Minister, to have organization, competence and responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u74	To ask for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u75	Mr President, Minister, welcome again to the Assembly of the Republic. Today, both the Member of the Left Block, and the Member of the CDS, mentioned their state of denial. I think Mr. Minister is in absolute denial. It is already not only in a state of denial, it is in a state of absolute denial. A year and a half ago, he told us that he was going to make a revolution in transport. Yesterday, I said that transport had neither the capacity nor the infrastructure to respond to this situation—it was your words. He said there was no capacity to respond to the distance. Well, then, there needs to be the ability to answer anything! If you don't want to respond to the distancement, or the lotion capacity, then you're not doing much there either! You better think about what you want to do. But I said something more serious, Minister. He said CP is losing 12 million euros a month. We already know what you did with TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) by saying that you admitted insolvency and we all saw what happened the following days. You don't want to do the same to CP! You don't want to do the same to CP because it's serious. Mr. Minister is becoming an expert in destroying companies, both public and private, of all kinds! [[Rice from the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing.]] We hope that it will not follow the same path in relation to the CP. It was important for the Government to clarify what it can do about this. Finally, Mr Minister, since you referred to this problem, I wanted to talk about the housing park. I know you like to talk about Holland and about 20% of public housing, but your Secretary of State, who is here today, said, last year, "We have to finish this from the housing park being only for the needy. We must have a housing park for the middle class». There he is! That, yes, is an excellent intervention, with which Mr Minister should learn! Just, until today, what do we have? We have 2 percent. Only 2 %! If you look at the Netherlands, you see that the public housing is not for the everyday little ones, but it is for those who, indeed, have a fundamental effort rate. That's what this government should do. We're still waiting for you to do it! [[PS protests.]] So perhaps the Secretary of State who is soon to be promoted to your office.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u76	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u77	Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister, Mr President. Secretary of State, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, I am not going to ask you about the TAP. I know it doesn't look like a fanatic miss an opportunity to talk about it, [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u78	But I wanted to!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u79	...but I didn't even say if Mr. Minister was right, so we're just around here. Mr Minister, in the 12 minutes and 19 seconds when you used the word, I heard several things that Mr Minister says you don't know, several things that Mr Minister says you haven't done and, if I haven't cheated on the notes I took, there were three things that you did: you spoke in a working group to study suburban trains—I didn't understand if it was just Sintra Line; you talked about worrying about the outdated times—I think you're going to talk to colleagues in your government so that this might happen elsewhere during this legislature; I said that IHRU would pass—I don't know if it was magic arts, I didn't understand what I was going to change—to respond in a week to the requests you have come from renters or gentlemen. It's a little bit, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u80	It's nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u81	It's a little bit, it's! And he contrasts a little with his inflamed rhetoric. So the question is this: do you not think the Portuguese were a little better served with a minister who would shout less, shave less and do more? [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u82	To request clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u83	Mr President, Minister, weather and catastrophes have the gift of visibility to structural problems. That was also the case in 1967 in the Lisbon region when a storm struck people living in barracks. Today, we maintain this logic: diseases, mental problems and discrimination quietly spread, because precariousness and overcrowding occupy the spaces of privacy and health of people. With the COVID-19, it was clear that it would not help to ask these people to protect themselves at home because the disease occupies the precarious and unhealthy dwellings and spreads itself in the overcrowded dwellings. Why does this still stand? I make a hypothesis: the subject is structurally and chronically relegated by the various governments and by this too. They do not have sufficient resources for the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation and are poorly responsible for mobilising the building for the construction of a national housing service. In addition, it fights poor and weak speculation, proven corruption and the washing of gold visa capitals. This government, and not any other, seems to understand that it has time, that it is not urgent. Despite all the evidence, he still believes that he has up to 2023 to rehabilitate 4,000 public fires and that he does not need to acquire. In fact, I understand it to be an easier option, to respond in the time of our lives, but it may be better for the country, for those who live here and for the people to choose to do it now, because the time of our lives is also the time of life for these people, who have lived for decades in these conditions, and that is the time that these conditions continue. I would therefore like to take advantage of some proposals here again: to rehabilitate and make available the fires of IHRU vague, not in 2023 but already in 2021 — it is an effort, but it will see that it is worth it; to retain in the public sphere fires which institutes and authorities intend to sell—for example, in Vila do Conde, the Authority is selling almost 30 apartments built with support of IHRU ; to provide the building and public land for conversion or construction for housing—if you will find in the ministry that protects them, you will certainly find them either in IHRU, either in IP or in CP. I ask you, Minister, if you do not think it is time to respond to this. I would also like to ask you whether, as far as the urgent relocation announced by Mr. Prime Minister has been concerned for two months now, he knows how many people are covered and what total capacity for those who are in need of this answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u84	To answer these five gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Silva, who says that I did not bring optimism, which has brought problems or problems to resolve, I will say that what I brought was serious about the debate, because I think that is the way we should have a debate on a subject of difficult resolution. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, although he spoke like that, angry...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u86	Don't! Always welcome!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u87	But that's how I felt! Despite this, I said, you did not disagree with me in almost anything. He talked about the differentiation of schedules as a great requirement and I had just said that we should walk to that. I do not agree with the honourable Member only when he says that the measure is good and simple. She's good, but it's not simple. Mr. André Ventura and Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo... Mr. André Ventura has recently come to this environment but is already acting as the worst examples of political life. It was quick to move on to the side of those who wanted to put in order. I don't know if the PSD was worried about Mr André Ventura! I admit it. [[PSD protests.]] I'll answer it. When Mr Ventura talks in revolution in rail transport or Mr Cotrim makes that 'number' about nothing has been done, it was important that each of us, including the Members, should be able to do nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would do the housework and realize what the railway was like, what the road she was taking in Portugal and what the road she is taking now. And if you guys get to work... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH protests.]] I will reply to you, Mr President. You'll have to be careful until next time you can attack otherwise. For the first time in more than 20 years, CP and IP no longer have breaks of workers. For the first time in 20 years, we not only stopped the fall as finally there is a net increase of workers in the CP. We finally managed to merge CP and EMEF to have a company working well and in the same direction. For the first time in the history of the CP... [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Mrs. Deputy, ask the floor, will you? For the first time in the history of the CP, we were able to sign a public service contract that gives predictability and certainty to the management of the CP. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] For the first time in years, because we had to respond quickly to the needs of the railway in Portugal, we looked at the quantity — tens, tens and more tens! — rolling stock lying in the country, which is already being recovered and circulating. You can see the Schindler cars on the Douro Line and the locomotives that are two months away from reaching Sintra. Still yesterday or earlier in the morning, there were 16 new carriages, of a total of 51, to strengthen the long-term service and the regional service. It is 51 cars purchased from Renfe for EUR 1, EUR 6 million. [[PSD protests.]] It is said that nothing has been done or that little has been done is false. [[PSD and CH protests.]] What is the matter with you? Don't you understand? Continuation of CH protests. It's probably just been here a short time since the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't understand. And I say it with all humility. [[PSD and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u88	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u89	It's true, sir, we...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u90	Mr Minister, if you don't mind, I would like to tell you. Ladies and gentlemen that the parts are regiment, but I ask you that if you want to do them, it must be masked. You may continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the work being done on the railway, as well as on housing, unfortunately we cannot get immediate answers. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] Unfortunately, between launching a train contest and having the train running we lost four years. As for housing, to get us a house... Mrs. Maria Manuel Rola asked for urgency and asked if we wanted the houses only in 2023. We don't want them only in 2023! If we could have the houses made today, we would have, but that's not how it works, Mrs. Deputies. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] Public procurement, design time, time of work, time of competitions do not work with the urgent need of home or transport that people have. What is crucial is to evaluate the work being done and, from this point of view, for the first time, we have the reinforced railway in Portugal and we are building what Mrs Devalues, and bad! For the first time in decades, we have a government that says, either and is building the public housing park to respond to the concern that is also that of Mr André Ventura and not only of the Secretary of State for Housing. It is a government concern that housing policy is not only for the poorest sectors of the population but that it responds to middle income populations. That's what we're doing and I'm asking the gentlemen. Members who pay more attention to what we say and do to be even more fair in the criticism they make to the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u92	Mr Minister, you have five more entries to ask for clarification. To that end, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we already know that poverty and the lack of living conditions lead to health degradation and that the poor generally have worse health. It's evidence. The epidemic of COVID-19 does not affect everyone in the same way. The most vulnerable populations are the most affected by the epidemic and are those who, when faced with the infection, have more difficulty staying at home because when they stop working they can no longer put food on the table for their children and because they are faced with more precarious living conditions. The precariousness in labour relations and housing and the use of public transport are decisive factors in health and it is about them that action is needed to combat the epidemic and prevent infection. Overcrowded rooms where grandparents, parents and children live; unsanitary dwellings, where water, energy and sanitation are lacking; houses without conditions of air conditioning; degraded dwellings, where there is moisture and infiltrations, in short, housing without living conditions is the reality of many families that in times of epidemic do not have the conditions to protect themselves and to ensure physical distance, exposing themselves to infection. Mr Minister, the situation in the country requires immediate answers to stop the infection, including responses in the area of housing. We are fully aware of the time it takes to have structural responses, but we must also bear in mind that, in view of the emergency situation in which we live, emergency responses are needed to prevent COVID and the government cannot continue to put its head in the sand as if it had no responsibility in this area. The situation requires that living conditions be guaranteed for families and solutions that protect them from the epidemic; it requires that families be on the ground to identify problems and ensure for each case and for each concrete situation specific answers; it requires finding emerging housing solutions, which are so far scarce. The current situation reveals the structural problems that remain unresolved. There is a lack of public housing and this is the central issue. The diagnosis is done and must be carried out, but there has been no direct action by the Government to date to increase the public housing park with results, either by mobilising the state's returned heritage, or by building new housing where it is necessary. If the successive governments had assumed State responsibility for housing, today we would be in a better position to face the epidemic. Therefore, in view of the concrete situation we are living in, I ask the Minister what exceptional measures he intends to implement to ensure for these families living conditions and protection against the outbreak. Are you mobilizing all available state dwellings and others that exist? With regard to the relocation plan that was approved by the Government, it is important to realize that needs are identified and that families are waiting for this relocation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u94	Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister, as has already been said, the cost and access to housing are a concern of all families and this pandemic, which has forced an entire population to go through a period of confinement, has also brought to the top the difficult living conditions of thousands of Portuguese families. But let us go to the facts of what the government presented in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. The Government has submitted a series of measures dealing with the area of housing, some of which are rescheduled, presented for the second or third time and which over recent years have been subsequently announced in State programmes, strategies and budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u97	This is the case with the old promise of identifying the state's entire heritage and giving priority to its use to boost the housing market, particularly for middle-class families, students, disadvantaged families and homeless people. On this subject, I put a very specific question: considering the PEES, how many real estates today are going to be used for housing purposes and how many people do the government intend to achieve with this programme? Mr. Minister, in this regard, I recall on 22 April 2019, in which, alongside the Minister of Higher Education and the Prime Minister, held a board of the Ministry of Education in the building of the 5th October Avenue, a symbolic image of the transformation of the state's heritage into student residences. on this occasion, he presented the National Housing Plan for Higher Education — 12 000 beds until 2022. It's been about a year and a half. of these 12 000 beds, how many will be available from September, when to resume the present school year? Another theme relates to what I said recently, that is, the need for Portuguese without the minimum living conditions remain in their homes. For this purpose, the Government created programme 1 in 2018. the right to help families who live in homes without the minimum conditions of dignity. The PSD Parliamentary Group has sought to have more information on the implementation of 1. the law and I can tell you that, in this task, it has not been easy to obtain clarification from your Ministry. I therefore ask a very specific question: how many families have already been supported, how many fires have been rehabilitated, and what is the implementation of this programme at the end of two years? The PSD Parliamentary Group referred this issue to it through the pandemic. Finally, I regret that the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the PCP yesterday have plunged, by ideological prejudice, a proposal from the PSD that guarantees a more agile, more flexible conversion,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] ... that would allow owners to attenuate losses, if they wanted to transfer the local accommodation to the lease market,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u99	... ensuring that people had more access to housing and that the middle class had houses more easily. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u100	To request clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u101	Mr President, Minister, I wanted to talk to you about TST, a company that is known on the south bank for doing what you want: abolishing careers whenever you want, reducing schedules whenever you want, changing schedules when you want it and, above all, missing in the rush hours when it works. It was like this before the layoff and it will be like this after the layoff. Why? Because this company can, because it is a private company and because the public power has no power against the power and blackmail of this private company. It may, because the Government has not sent the TST, as neither the Chamber of Almada nor any of the Chambers of the South Margin has power against the TST and as Fernando Medina does not send the TST either. Perhaps this helps us to understand why the only road operator, monopolist, from the south bank, who provides a service paid by taxpayers, entered and remained in layoff during June. It was certainly not because the users were out on buses, which, in fact, never happened. It was because the company blackmailed to get more public money. What will happen after the layoff is that 90 % of an insufficient service will continue to be insufficient, it will be even more insufficient. That is why it seems to us that this new speech that transport has nothing to do with the pandemic is made up of private road operators. of the two, one : or social distance is important or not. What can’t happen is that this is compulsory at the door of the coffee and then throwing, inside the bus, when it’s overcrowded in the career to Cacilhas. The problem of trains, Mr Minister, cannot be solved at any time. But what is the excuse for TST, a company that always did what it wanted, that got into layoff when it wanted and that will continue to suppress careers as long as it wants? The problem is that those who suffer from this are the users of these transports and, in the same way, the inhabitants of the neighborhoods that these transports serve, as is the case in the South Margin of Jamaica and the neighborhood of the Second Tower. Mr Minister, the virus is not democratic, contrary to what could be thought and what we cannot even let COVID turn into a disease of the poor. For that, we need to look forward to these problems. Is the housing problem not solved from one moment to the next? Maybe not. But why don't they control the market? Because it's speculation and rising income prices that are throwing people into these neighborhoods every day! Those who were already there need to wait for the public construction, very well, but the new ones, who arrive every day, why are they banished from their homes? And the control of the housing market that is now bringing speculation to the South Margin? That's not done and it wasn't done before the pandemic. Therefore, Minister, we must not look to the side, not to blame young people and parties beyond the responsibility they have and solve the problems that were already there and that the pandemic has only worsened. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u102	Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u103	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. Secretary of State, Minister, the Left Block brought two relevant issues to the Government in this appeal not only in the context of COVID, but also in the context of pre-COVID. I wanted to devote my attention specifically to the railway. In fact, over the years, the country has not always been taking the right choices with regard to rail and mobility. These doubts and uncertainties have, in fact, led us to the place where we were until a very short time ago. Honor be done to Mr Minister, for if there is something that has not been running away is from the raindrops, having assumed their responsibilities and those of the country, because they are transversal to the different parties which over the years have ruled the country. But these changes are happening—and good! — in the railway they did not start today, they came from the last mandate, when the Government decided to strengthen and rehabilitate the role of rail in mobility and when the Government also understood that, in order to meet the goals of the decarbonisation of the country, the train would have an important role. We are today—and good! — taking new steps on the railway. I would like to recall — I know that others have already said it — the effort that has been made, even at the beginning of this year, with the opening of the Guifões workshop in Matosinhos, which has allowed us to re-learn and re-acquire a know-how that Portugal has already had, because we have already built trains and today we have no conditions to do so. I hope that we will succeed in doing so in the near future! Portugal is not a rich country, but we often behave as such. I remember the role that this government, but also the previous one, had in rehabilitating steeped and abandoned carriages so that today we could rehabilitate them by putting them back on track again. With regard to the Sintra Line, I wanted to say that this Line is too important not only for Sintra Council, as for the Amadora and Lisbon Councils, transporting 60 million users annually. People can wait, they are patient, but we also need to give them answers. A former mayor of Sintra Council is currently presiding at the session, Deputy Edite Estrela, who intended to extend IC19 ( supplementary itinerary No 19 ). The technicians told him that it was not possible, but then it was possible. So I wanted to make this alert to what the technicians are saying. I would also like to ask you if you could elucidate us more about the expectations we can have about this working group that was created. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u104	For clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u105	Madam President, Minister, we believe that this debate is important exactly for clarification, discussion and proposals on the solutions that must be on the table. The Minister recognises the problems identified — I believe that we all recognize these problems — and he says he is aware of what is happening in public transport, but as far as the solution is concerned, we are in a certain way impasse in this debate. There is one point which he said is very important to us. When you did—and well! — the praise to CP, EMEF and the way CP, as a public undertaking, helps solve the problems identified, particularly in a crisis situation, spoke precisely about how the merger of CP with EMEF is helping, for example, from time to time, more carriages, particularly for the Sintra Line. We know that something urgent and immediate must also be done on the Sintra Line. But the good example seen in the CP, which is a public company, of which the State holds all the capital and in which it directs, is not also seen in relation to other companies, from the point of view of the economic strategy and strategic sectors. I am speaking in particular of the TAP, because it is diametrically different from what is being done in the COP. The CP should be the good example for what you want to do in the TAP and, for the latest news, it doesn't seem that's what's on the table. We are talking about the lack of money to be able to respond more quickly to certain problems, particularly in housing and transport, but there is a possible compensation on the table for a private shareholder who has done nothing more than destroy a company like TAP. So all of this is to say that we are facing two pesos and two measures, as in this debate we have been dealing with two pesos and two measures. I would like to ask you again about this, because for us and for people too is very important. On the one hand, people are asked to keep a physical distance between them, to have full responsibility and to use all protective measures for themselves and others, but at the same time no conditions are available for them to meet these safety standards. It seems to us that these two pesos and two measures cannot exist in a debate like this. Mr Minister, you know very well that it is important to respond immediately to what people feel every day by using the various transports mentioned here and when they do not have a decent home to protect themselves and their families. This implies a lot of investment and a lot of political will to respond immediately and to end these two pesos and these two measures in this narrative of the response to the pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u106	For clarifications, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u107	Mr President, I would just like to remind the Minister that, when the previous government took possession of it, there was a plan to acquire and rent circulating material that his predecessor, Minister Pedro Marques, put in the drawer. Therefore, you have spent four years without buying and renting any circulating material and any composition. That's it, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u108	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u109	But I don't want to deal with the issues of the past here. The government is disillusioned to deal with the pandemic in the Lisbon region. The Minister of Health said today that public transport is not associated with any of the cases of infection in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, but the fact is that, on May 20, the Directorate-General for Health issued a guidance on the use of public transport, recommending social distancement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u111	It is the same social distancing which Mr Minister says is now impossible to comply with and has therefore determined a number of guidelines to be used in public transport. Exactly the same minister who protects public transport, has come here today to say that it is not possible to ensure social distancing in transport. So what the Minister said here today to the Portuguese was that it is not possible to comply with a recommendation from the Directorate-General for Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u113	More: he also said here today that there is no overcrowding in transport, although he recognized that this social distancing cannot be achieved. Mr Minister, if there is no social distancing, it is obvious that, in accordance with the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health, there is overcrowding. The discussion that came here today, very pedagogical and explanatory, should have been held in the Council of Ministers, with the Minister of Health, before they produced the recommendations they transmitted to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u115	I believe, therefore, that Mr. Minister does not at all know the daily reality of the transports of Lisbon at the latest, because every day there are testimonies that, in the metropolitan network...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u116	Ah! Witnesses!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u117	I know that the Minister does not protect the metropolitan network, but he is now facing the issue of transport in Lisbon, which is transversal and does not cover only the railway. Therefore, every day we arrive to testimonials of lots above two thirds in the Lisbon transports. Mr Minister, I just wanted to ask you whether perhaps the Government is going to talk to the President of the City Council of Lisbon, who has now awakened from a long sleep and has been absolutely available to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr Minister, do you want to take advantage of this availability from the President of the City Council and plan to resume the parking exemption in the city of Lisbon so that people can withdraw pressure from public transport? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u118	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the physical distance in public transport, it is not necessary to know much or to receive testimony to realize that it is indeed difficult, if not impossible, to keep it within a bus or train, unless we wanted to reduce the lot to 10 or 5 %. Just think a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u120	You have to say that to DGS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u121	The Minister of Health — I think it is acknowledged by the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people — has done an excellent job in responding to the pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have collaborated to the extent of our share of responsibility in this collective effort to make everything go well. If anyone knows, within this House, what is the difficulty of building and doing work is the former president of the City Hall of Viseu, who for many years has done a lot of work. He well knows what it means and what distance the moment when you have an idea and want to take a measure and the moment when you will finally inaugurate the work. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] It is essential for all of us to be aware of this, if we want to have serious discussions about the capacity and speed with which the State can work, within the rules it has to comply — no one is putting them at stake here — and about how long it takes between a decision and we will see a house or a train appear or a railway line to be opened. The best way to do our work, each one in his place, is to be aware of what we are facing, of the difficulties, of the procedures, of the concrete reality, and then, more easily, we can judge the work of others. I am not surprised that this initiative is from the Left Block, as I would not be surprised if it were from the PCP or the Socialist Party. In fact, let me tell you that the Lisbon Members of the Socialist Party asked a serious and rigorous question about the work we were doing and the answer that was being given. So no one has ever hidden... and it was not at the request of the Minister, as Mr. Paulo Marques knows! [[PS laughter.]] It uses this to say that we understand, accept and know that real concern about public transport and the difficulties people face every day in order to be able to come to work and to make their lives. I have no doubt from this point of view about the Left Block. I wouldn't say the same thing, obviously, about other parties on my right. The pandemic, as I believe, Mrs. Joana Mortágua and Mrs. Paula Santos have said, does not affect everyone in the same way, is unequal in their effects, which further increases our collective responsibility as a community. We cannot fail this part of the population facing more difficulties. We are aware of the time we face. Finally, Madam President, I am sorry, saying that we know that from a structural point of view the correct measure for the most deprived population is 1. the law, because it is that measure that will allow, structurally and permanently, to provide decent housing conditions to our population. This is a work that will take time, which has its difficulties, is a work that is done with the authorities. We have been receiving the local housing strategies and we will continue to do so over the next year. In fact, even today, it was launched in the framework of 1. the law, a neighborhood in the Arruda dos Vinhos where the Secretary of State of the Housing was present. So this is an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u122	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u123	I will finish, Madam President. As is the process of rehabilitation of the public park, state buildings, and its availability to the average income population. As regards 5 October, I must say that the project Mr. Alexandre Poço spoke about is under way. Unfortunately, it is not in time and with the speed with which we all wish and that students need, but the contest was launched, the project was assigned and is currently running. So 1. The law, public rental park accessible...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u124	You must conclude, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u125	Finally, with regard to financial support COVID-19, I believe that the Left Block has submitted a proposal for approval under a commitment of honour and then 60 days for submission of documents. It is a quick and fast way of responding to this need. The national emergency housing grant will begin to be worked now. That's a failure. The answer that has been given...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u126	Mr. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u127	Madam President, I'm really going to finish. The answer that has been given is no longer appropriate, but it has been given by resorting to various State facilities — military, health, or tourist, including youth hostels. It's a work being done right now. It is not the right solution, but given the capacity of the State right now, that is what we can do. Thank you very much to all and to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u128	Mr Minister, the Bureau was tolerant because I recently interrupted it to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members for the fact that they are taking aside, which are regimential, without mask and therefore there was also some time for the government that was used by the Bureau. That is why there was now some tolerance, but I would ask everyone to stick to the times assigned to each speaker. Having completed the requests for clarification and the answers, we will move on to the interventions. Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the Portuguese day-to-day and in the transport sector this was no different. The demand, at first, decreased significantly, the fruit of fear and confinement. The slowdown in the economy, with consequences on employment and social responses, is a reality in the eyes of all. The fear of public transport has become an inevitable consequence of the days we live, and it is necessary to restore confidence for the necessary economic recovery, without jeopardizing the health axis. We lived times of resilience and even in the period of the emergency state were many Portuguese who daily had to move to our economy and the services did not stop. in these debates about the pandemic, we should always look at the answers and place a discourse of confidence. Trust in decision makers, health professionals, security forces and civil protection, companies and Portuguese. And yes, trust in our public transport companies that, unlike private companies, are at the level of supply close to the pre- pandemic and, in the case of the CP, 100%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we are witnessing the natural increase in demand, the result of the return of many to the presence work and the progressive reopening of trade and services. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has marked this debate on public transport and housing in these times of response to a health crisis that has never been seen before. A first question we must put here: we must not allow Portuguese to be put against Portuguese and that is why this speech is dangerous and should be avoided. However, it is known the epidemiological situation in Lisbon and Tejo Valley and the historical constraints on transport and housing in this region. Many of the issues raised have a social basis and we must combat inequalities. This is one of the assumptions of public policies that we defend: always fighting inequalities. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group assumes the existence of difficulties, most of them before March of this year, some of them with decades and other results of the attempt to destroy and privatize public transport companies in the Troika period. in this exceptional period, public transport companies waged on the implementation of contingency measures, including disinfection and individual protective equipment. The current government has invested in rolling material, in new railways, metro lines, in boats and by buses, and it is always curious to hear, from those who have fought most to prevent public investment in transport, speeches to want the best, which is not always possible. We assume, understand the fears of the population and are available to, together with all the actors and with the government, find the best answers, but credible answers. For example, one of the proposals that is being debated is to replace trains by buses. This proposal, in addition to being environmentally unviable, does not seem possible, since there would be a need for about 40 buses per train. In the times of the troika, it was necessary to dismantle, privatize and not invest. It was the only existing transport strategy. With this vision, what would the results be like today? Just look at how private people behave in these pandemic times. Exceptional times have forced exceptional responses to transport and housing, but we do not want to forget the starting point. It would be important to stress, for example, that for the first time this year the COP will have approved a concession contract. At the level of housing, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group argues that an economic and social crisis cannot be followed by a housing problem and that is why measures such as those of healthy social neighbourhoods have been provided for renting and credit. More and better answers are needed? Certainly, yes, but historically we are one of the countries with less public housing, and that is the fruit of those who thought that the market would solve everything. I conclude by stressing the need for confidence in public responses in the areas of transport and housing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u130	For an intervention, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u131	Mr President, Mr Minister and other members of the Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: In terms of housing policies, the response to the pandemic was divided into two phases, namely the first emergency and the second recovery. In the emergency measures, the PSD was next to it. There have been and there are failures, but we understand the difficulties and recognize the merit of the IHRU employees who, in pandemic and telework, set up a new support system. at this moment, we have three challenges ahead and our path will be different. The first challenge is to create confidence for the resumption of the market, regulate the minimum living conditions and use the empty properties of the State to leverage the recovery. Trust is crucial to stimulate natural readjustment between supply and demand so as to be the least possible interventionist. For this, the State must be clear to guarantee the right to housing and the State must be clear to guarantee the right to private property. No one knows what the post-COVID real estate market will be, but we know it won't be the same. We have 171 000 families with approved moratorium applications, i.e. are not paying the housing credit until March 31,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] ... which adds 128 000 applications for private moratoriums, with a total of 300 000 outstanding real estate credits. On the other hand, the pressure that tourism exerts has fallen and the incomes are naturally falling. in this context, we proposed the flexibility measure to move from local housing to the lease market without penalties, but this measure was piped.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u133	The second challenge is that we must face the overcrowding that already existed in Lisbon. People rented beds in rooms shared by many people, paying monthly rents between 100 and 200 €. We found out with the pandemic that this government kept asylum seekers in charge of a hostel with the capacity of six adults per quarter without meeting any minimum area requirement. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Maria Manuel Rola.]] in this hostel, in the heart of the capital, were 136 infected with the coronavirus, people who were in charge of the government, under conditions outraged for themselves and dangerous to the surrounding community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u134	We have warned that these situations do not fall within the existing legal regime and that they need to be disciplined by a gate that has not yet been released. We are going to the last and third challenge: the returned properties of the State. A new program is announced in the IHRU that will make the necessary identification of available public buildings. Looks like we're in a movie where it's always going through the same scene, nobody says anything and everybody slaps. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u135	Do we have to remember that they launched a program in 2016, four years ago, called the National Building Rehabilitation Fund for exactly the same purpose? Exactly for the same purpose! [[PSD applause.]] And you know what this fund did in four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u136	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u137	In three years of dynamic real estate market with 800 empty public buildings in hand, do you know what has been done? Zero! Nothing! Nothing! N-A-D-A! Nothing! In four years, nothing! [[PSD applause.]] As far as public housing is concerned, a government has never heard so much about a subject where it has done so little! But unfortunately speaking is not doing! Mr. Minister, who recognizes the work of Eng. Ferreira do Amaral, Minister of Cavaco Silva, who has launched the largest public housing programme in recent decades. As he says, the great problem of running is really people, not ideologies. But the thing gets worse! Things get worse! Things get worse! Open... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u138	On the pretext of urgency, the Government proposes a policy of public works which is not transparent. On the pretext of urgency, the Government proposes to increase the thresholds of the Court of Auditors to EUR 750 000, below which almost all contracts of more than EUR 600 million of works included in this plan will pass without prior scrutiny. On the pretext of urgency, the Government removes requirements of technical specifications at the time of the contract.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u139	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u140	On the pretext of urgency, the Government creates an exceptional regime in a format in which it is difficult to compare the quality/price of proposals, facilitating favourism, conclusion and corruption. Do you think it wise to live in a country where former Socialist Prime Minister José Socrates confirmed, in an interview with journalist Vítor Gonçalves, at the RTP, at minute 16, that he received loans from thousands of euros in live cash from a good friend who had been awarded public works in an exceptional regime created in his mandate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u141	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u142	Very honestly, I would like to share with you the dream I have for the green and digital cities of the future, which I know our community can build,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u143	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u144	...but the truth is that this program now launched withdraws us. After the Euro 2004 stadiums, after the modernization of the school park only hopes for technicians on the ground, so I want to appeal to them: be strict in the polling station ; do not stop believing that the future of this country can be different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u145	To request clarification, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u146	Madam President, Mrs Filipa Roseta, I know that there is no time to answer, but I already know what your answer is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u147	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u148	You should better manage your time when you do an intervention! Today's debate is about housing, it's about rail, it's a debate that, although centered on the Lisbon region, has a transversal logic about housing. I am always very fascinated when I hear Mrs. Filipa Roseta talking about housing, because she always talks about the concern she has with people, with the people, about the concern about building houses for everyone, but the proposal that the PSD presents, within the framework of the Supplementary Budget, is a proposal for those who have their real estate in the speculative real estate market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u149	Speculative? Oh, my God! No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u150	I do not say that this proposal is not important, which I say is that many other proposals are needed. And, Mrs Deputies, let me tell you that today, in committee, a proposal has been adopted, already mentioned here by the Minister, far more relevant than that and that gives an important answer to the IHRU — the IHRU, which Mrs Deputies so much responsible and accused of malfunctioning — allowing the process to be streamlined. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Mrs. Member, thank you for listening to me. Then I ask the question, although the honourable Member does not have time to answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, we have adopted important proposals for housing, as we have also made since the previous Parliament. The honourable Member is here to talk about what the government has not done. But the honourable Member has to see what are the foundations of the current programme, she has to see what is the basis, because it begins with the basis. That is how politics is done, Mrs. That's how serious things are done. in this case, it is promoting the foundations of housing policy, which are made. It is to begin the projects, as has already been said, that they are being made, with public contraction, not disregarding any of their rules, as you want. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, this is the process, which is under way and which we proudly defend for housing policy, unlike zero, of nothing your government did when it was in office. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] I will finish, Mrs Deputy — and then you can step aside and answer, if you like, the following question: what is the PSD proposal for families, for the most deprived families and for the middle class? Tell us what your proposal is! Or is that the proposal you announced here? Tell us! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u151	In reply, Mrs Filipa Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u152	And the picture of the times? Isn't that all right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u153	I thank you, Madam President, very honestly, even to give me the opportunity to say that, in fact, the biggest public works programme in this government is that of Cavaco Silva, launched in 1993, the Special Realisation Programme ( PER) with 2000 fires per year. You guys didn't do anything! I'm an architect, and I know! It takes two years to make a project and two years to do the work! But it takes two years to make a strategy is a shame, a shame! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u154	A shame is to talk without time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u155	Strategies are a PowerPoint! Two years to make a PowerPoint is a shame, a shame! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u156	I would like to take the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u157	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u158	Madam President, I want to know whether we can all manage our time in this way, that is, we are running out of our time and still have the opportunity to answer the questions that are being asked to us. That is, if we can answer, when we've spent our time. I just want to know whether it will ensure equal conditions for all benches in relation to what you just did with the PSD bench. [[PCP, PS and BE applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u159	The Bureau refrains from giving the answer because you know it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u160	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u161	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u162	Madam President, it is only to say that the PSD Member has spent a little more than 20 seconds on her reply and that the time has come.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u163	All right! Open... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u164	Thank you very much, Mr, but you should have told the Bureau before. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for all of us to hear and for those who have the right to use the word to do so. Mrs. Filipa Roseta, of course, exceeded her time,... [[The government too!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u165	... the arrival was available to give 20 seconds to the honourable Member, but did not inform the Bureau. So Mr. João Oliveira is quite right about what he said, and he knows the Bureau's answer. Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our debate today has to do with a very invisible part of this pandemic crisis, which has been so far, and continues to be, the day-to-day of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese, workers and workers, who have maintained, even during the period when all the praises went to those who stayed at home, and well, the obligation to continue with their activities, to work, i.e., to go to their posts and public services to ensure the cleaning of hospitals, health centres that were open, to maintain the functioning of supermarkets and social kitchens that provided meals to the most deprived people, to ensure the care and care of the elderly isolated. This population, which throughout the time of the collection was kept active, was the one that may have had less visibility until now. And we saw, not only through social networks or testimonies, the way these people arrived daily, for example, to Campo Grande, coming from the regions of Loures and Odivelas, on overcrowded buses, still in the morning, and how these people came from train or metro, in peak hours, in situations where the offer does not guarantee the minimums of social distance. These people are the ones being debated today, because we are seeing precisely how we are responding at this stage of defining, in terms of the supply of public transport and the offer of emergency accommodation, to these people, who also live in situations of overcrowding. First of all, by talking about transport, road transport companies had an opportunity in this crisis, because they were able to transfer wage costs to social security, they were able to save on variable, fuel and safe costs, ensure the financing of their normal support for service times to 100 % and even now that the Layoff is being reduced and will be guaranteed an offer of only 90 %, they can still have an additional support of EUR 65 million. So what we have is a great advantage of these private companies which, however, have allowed themselves, throughout all this time, and in the face of these disadvantaged, suburban social segments, who have needed public transport throughout the period of confinement, to have an attitude of social irresponsibility and attempt to maximize gains in a crisis situation for the country. It's a case of failure of private service. And it is important that this balance sheet be made at this time, because Arriva, Barraqueiro, Transeve, Scotturb, Vimeca are companies that failed in essential public service obligations at a critical time, subjecting those who were making the greatest sacrifices, the workers who had to keep their activity to ensure essential functions, and who did not offer a capable service, a secure service, a service that meets people's needs. And what is extraordinary is that, at the moment, there continues to be idle capacity in these companies, there continues to be stopped buses and workers at home, when there is, at the same time, the overcrowding of supply in public transport, whether it is rail, or it is still road. Therefore, we do not rule out the additional offer of road transport on over-used rail lines. This is not about buses stopping at all stations and pedestrians, as here, certainly by caricature, the Minister said. These are buses that make direct links to points where there is an overcrowding in the rail supply—at a time when traffic, we well know, is not the normal traffic and in which they can meet hours that are feasible in the supply of transport—to ensure that this reinforcement, precisely because of the capacity that these private companies have and are not using. Let us have a convincing explanation of why we should let these companies continue to use only part of their capacity when there is a need for greater supply! So, let's keep that view, let's keep that proposal. In the area of housing, already in March, a number of organisations that intervene on the right to housing had sent an open letter to the Government, stressing the need to use and request equipment, infrastructure and, above all, buildings which are unemployed and empty—in particular that of the local housing which is unused during this period of absence of tourist demand—to ensure an emergency resettlement offer for people who would be hit by COVID and who did not have conditions of decent housing or who lived in an overcrowded housing situation. It took two months for the government to respond and, at the end of May, we heard Mr Prime Minister say « we will work to develop an emergency resettlement plan to allow the separation of people who are infected from those who are not, as we have done in relation to some homes». It has spent a month, and we hear here today saying that, at this moment, the offer is reduced to a few inns of youth. I would like to know from the Government how many people came from an overcrowded housing context—and I am not talking about asylum seekers, who were staying in hotels or in pensions, I am not talking about this kind of need, to which this response was given— living in a precarious or overcrowded housing situation, had to have this reception. How many are there? Secondly, what infrastructure does the government want to provide with another qualification, another capacity, in addition to those that it has today and which are clearly inadequate, i.e. only inns of youth? Mr Minister, this debate is really about this: how do we respond to those who have never stopped getting up in the morning, waiting, still at night, for an overcrowded bus, returning late and so often to a house that is too full? When the pandemic hit these sectors more strongly and the territory from which this people comes—and we always knew that it would achieve more seriously these sectors—the worst thing we could do would be to apply the stigma ferrote, as the honourable Member of the extreme right here today did, and to call them the « commoners».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u167	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u168	on the contrary, the left, the Left Block wants this debate to be the opportunity for conditional emergency solutions and to accelerate a consistent public response in transport and health. I conclude, Madam President, by saying that this was a debate on this response, a response of which we have long known the need, but which has now become much more evident in the context of a deep crisis in this pandemic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u169	Mr Jorge Costa had no time to answer, Mr André Pinotes Batista, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, at this stage which is already a long way from our debate, I would like to say that those who here have tried to test a debate of disregard for caution have been wrong, because there is one thing that is evident from the debate we have done here today: the Government and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group are quite attentive to reality, they recognize some constraints and are, in fact, doing the same since the first day this unprecedented crisis called us to find answers, solutions, within what are possible realities. But, more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: who today wanted to have a debate on perceptions, he made a clear mistake. This is not a debate about what is seen in a photograph, it is a debate about a structural problem in housing and mobility. And on the answers we also have in this measure we will be going there. The challenge we have here is evident for those who are attending this type of debate. For the people who have already been mentioned, who fulfill the working days and travels, it is clear that what is needed is to find a balance between public health and the right to mobility. That is, we must also be aware that not giving mobility conditions to people will generate clusters that are not desirable. In fact, it is very important that we bear in mind the question of the balance between health and transport. We must also say the following about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a gradual adaptation of the offer to demand, and it is worth leaving here a special mention to public enterprises — I think the left is in agreement — and, indeed, the wrong that the right has done to them. Let's see: Transtejo and Soflusa, the Lisbon Metropolitan, the collective transports, the same scenarios in Carris and other companies. These companies gave a reply above what was required of them, and that is why we always defend the interest of maintaining them in the public sphere, because they did so with very high supply rates for a demand that had been reduced. But, more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to reflect on this issue: we were, above all, right—and by saying 'we' call for the collapse of all parties on the left—when we prioritized housing and transport as areas of action. What the pandemic brought us was the confirmation of what we said when we inherited a terrible investment liabilities in these areas: "No, we have to act! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And then we started acting. Unfortunately, the solutions are not all immediate, we have this consciousness, but the pandemic did not bring these problems, they already existed. In fact, let me say that, these are things for which the government has set the foundations for solutions to solve them with great determination. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is clear: in the future we will all be called upon to continue to respond and, above all, not to fall into what we have seen today by the parties on the right, that is, in a total inability to formulate solutions to the problems that, while in power, have not been able to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u171	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rule is, first of all, knowing how to make choices, preferably informed choices. It is therefore particularly important and worrying that, after seven weeks of the end of widespread confinement, we continue without convincing explanations about the persistence of pandemic outbreaks, particularly in the area of Great Lisbon. First, the government adopted the narrative that it was the fault of the parties, after the gatherings of young people, or of civil construction, or of temporary work, or of testing themselves more, or more of this or more of that. And when the data denied, one by one, these explanations and the government narrative, now says that the real problem is the conditions in which people travel in public transport. From the outset that the Liberal Initiative says that without reliable and transparent data it is not possible to make good decisions. But in this case, and in spite of all shortcomings, there are data that are already sufficiently clear. It is clear, for example, that the failure to control the pandemic can make it inevitable to return to a general confinement, which, applied to the country as a whole, would have enormous financial costs and even higher social and personal costs. In view of this serious alternative scenario, it would be to demand much greater determination and imagination on the part of the Socialist Government in the search for solutions for public transport, which now appear as the main reason why Great Lisbon is leading to evil from the rest of the country. It is not expected a shoulder shrink and resignation, decisions are expected. In the face of this problem, we have not heard any immediate statements at this time, such as at the time the Prime Minister's statement on the TAP: "If anything happens, the TAP must continue to fly with the national colors" — even though today it is not known how much TAP can cost each Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u173	I'll be right there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u174	In the face of such a problem, we have seen such a shoulder shrink, but we have not seen concrete proposals and solutions. In the face of such a problem, the Minister is asked to be thrown out and imaginative, not to continue to hold onto the mantra that public services must all be provided by the State, or that it is limited to brave women without great grace or sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u175	Say one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u176	He asked whether he had already thought about strengthening road transport by facilitating or encouraging private people to place the fleet that is underutilized in the service of the public. We know that it does not solve, but it is certainly a good help. Have you ever thought about convincing your government colleagues that it would be a good idea to encourage the development of working hours and trade in order to better distribute traffic flows throughout the day?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u178	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you for your tolerance. I will end up as I began: to govern is to make choices, without prejudice or ideological fanaticism, with respect for taxpayers' money and, above all, with respect for people's lives. The Liberal Initiative, here, yes, whatever there is, never forgets this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u179	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : First of all, I want to leave an explanation, because I think you should not have understood. Recently, I said that in a fortnightly debate here, what the CDS suggested was not to adjust and differentiate train schedules, but rather to work hours. Therefore, my clarification is in that sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u181	I said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u182	I want to bring a subject here, Minister. Yesterday, in a heated discussion about the TAP, in Parliamentary committee, you may have missed something in which even the Minister and I agree, which has to do with the control of airport entrances. I brought you today the numbers of the Lisbon region: the numbers of infected people, the numbers of Portuguese people who are under surveillance. We all know that there are rules and limitations for those who live here and that there is enormous tolerance, so as not to call it anything else, for those who enter the airports of Porto, Lisbon or Faro. The CDS has already presented, in this amending budget, an initiative in relation to airport tests and entry control. The fact is that parties who even claim to defend this measure did not approve this initiative of the CDS. The situation is very worrying, because we have an airport precisely in the center of Lisbon. And if we have these numbers and if Portugal is the second worst country, following Sweden, in terms of pollution by millions of inhabitants, the focus and reason for this concern is in the Lisbon region and we therefore had this debate here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u183	New cases!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u184	In new cases, I appreciate the correction. But it is the second worst case, black case, in the European Union. Several countries, several airports, have taken measures — Austria, the Czech Republic, Greece, Estonia, Slovakia, Cyprus — requiring tests or certificates of a negative test to enter these countries. The Minister said yesterday that he agreed with me, and I registered that positive note. The CDS even presented an initiative in the Lisbon Chamber, we do not know what Mr. President of the Lisbon Chamber thinks... but yesterday I read a news that to enter Portugal, the citizens of flights coming from Brazil, the PALOP and the United States of America have to have a COVID test. This should be extended to everyone. Mr Minister, the appeal I make to you is that you can exercise your political capital within the Government and even within the Socialist Party to have that control. This is important for the Lisbon region because, sometimes even more so than the tests themselves, the important thing is the certificate of the test made in the country of origin, because, having someone coming on a plane, comes here and does a positive test—and we are talking about planes coming with 100, 200 or 300 people—, this becomes a more difficult problem to solve. Mr Minister, as I know that he agrees with me and that he agrees with such control that he gives guarantees to those who live here and want to visit Portugal, I ask him to do this force within the government so that this can be done very soon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u185	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: even if the government wants to pass a message of tranquility and that it is all controlled, the truth is that it is no longer there, and that is an example of the current data of new cases of infection in various areas, particularly in the Lisbon Region and the Tejo Valley, but also the numerous testimonies of public health experts. At the last meeting of specialists in Infarmed on 24 June we had no doubt about the worrying state in which the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley was located, which yesterday showed the highest concentration of new infected people in the 24 hour period, in a total of 82 % of people with positive CVID results. How do you let this situation get here? Of course, because of the lack of human resources in epidemiological monitoring and surveillance. Yesterday, the NAP's proposal for strengthening public health specialists was approved in good time, which we know represents half of the resources needed in Portugal. It is not possible to understand the lack of rapid strategic action in this territory, when growing infection data are already known in this region. These outbreaks must have an immediate intervention within the first 12 to 24 hours, rather than waiting for 14 days for data, on the penalty of losing control of transmission chains, spending more resources and extending the contagio to other regions of the country. In the face of the hundreds of new daily cases of VOCID infection and hospital occupancy rates already exceeded in some hospitals in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, it seems to us to be worrying about the disparate way in which some entities with great public health responsibility have acted. We heard the coordinator of the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley devalue, even with irony, the situation in this territory, considering it controlled and giving responsibility for the operation and organization of hospitals. We have the feeling that we are not talking about the same reality. The Baltonary of the Order of Physicians himself warned that some hospitals in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon have already exceeded their maximum capacity, stating that the response that has existed has only been possible thanks to the solidarity between the hospitals, accusing the total lack of coordination between the ARS(regional health administrations). In the last 15 days, Portugal has assumed itself as the second country with the largest number of cases per million inhabitants, only surpassed by Sweden. Since May 8, we have had an effective increase in active cases, which has compromised what seemed to be a good performance of the country in combating the health crisis. We need to read the numbers. If Lisbon has the largest number of cases of infection and Madeira, for example, it has one case at the end of eight days and the Azores do not have new infections is not because the virus does not like the islands, but because the entrances and exits of the regions have adequate health control measures, which does not happen in mainland Portugal. In due time, the NAP alerted to the risks of a precipitated and ill-planned definition and also, on 8 June, presented a draft resolution for the safe reopening of the Portuguese borders by presenting positive tests at the time of boarding. You need to go after the virus and not people with symptoms. The economic recovery is essential, but you have to walk hand in hand with the country's health security. The strategy must be integrated from border control to epidemiological monitoring and surveillance to people's living conditions. The small bet on collective transport in Portugal is not new. In the phase of defination, it is clear what price we are paying for the lack of investment in the last few years in this sector. A part of the solution would pass, yes, or will pass, through flexibility, by employers, from working hours,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u187	Would you like to end up, please, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u188	... limiting concentrated flows of people at the same times, but the action of the government will have to go through the reorganization and strengthening of the public transport network, with greater supply of transport and times. The present school year will impose even greater flows and mobility of people and it is not compatible to want different results with equal solutions. Now is the time for the government to implement concerted responses to reduce the contagion and place Portugal on the list of safe countries for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u189	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u190	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, your Government has shown that it is unable to deal with the problem of transport and, therefore, says that it does not have the conditions to increase infrastructure or ensure social distancing. It has shown that it is unable to solve the problem of increasing the contagion in Lisbon, in particular by increasing the level of control at the entry of mainland Portugal, in the same way as many European congeners are doing. But on TAP it is necessary to say, Minister, that he is responsible for the instability in the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u191	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u192	Along with what he said today about the CP, his ongoing conflict with both Lacerda Machado, or with his government colleagues led to the progressive deterioration of a company that was and wanted to continue to be raised. Its ideological fixation, its assumption of TAP insolvency may have led us to one of the biggest economic disasters that there is memory in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u193	What you want me to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u194	I shall conclude by quoting the President of the City Council of Lisbon, Fernando Medina. He said...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u195	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u196	I will finish, Madam President. He said that all of this has an explanation: « bad leaders and little army». I don't know if you were referring to yourself, Minister, but if you were, we have a struggle in the Socialist Party that will be very interesting to see in the coming months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u197	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The situation in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon naturally requires specific measures to respond to the problem that is being created, but the solutions are not different from those that need to be found to address the problem in the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19. And the solutions are the taking of measures to prevent and mitigate the disease, with priority in particular in the workplace, in housing and transport, making the pedagogy of the need for individual protection at all levels and that everyone complies with the rules that are set out in terms of public health. But we must also promote the dynamization of economic, social, cultural and sporting activity, which are fundamental aspects of life in society and of which no life in society can dispense, demanding at this time that these activities be dynamized in security not only individually but collectively. In addition to the issues that are currently being raised about housing and transport, it is essential that questions at work should also be adequately considered and have the answer due not only to health services, but also to the responsibilities that cannot be lightened in each company and workplace. I would like to leave this note here because, during this debate, transport problems have naturally been addressed in the perspective of users, but it is also essential that the safety of those working in transport companies be guarded, so that this can reflect positively on the level of collective health and on those who use public transport. It is essential that these measures be adequately taken into account in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, considering the situation we are experiencing today, and that they be taken into account not only the requirement that they should take into account in the councils and in the most affected areas, and which are the subject of greater concern, but prior attention throughout the metropolitan area of Lisbon. We have heard several speeches here today, including that of Mr Ricardo Leon, of the Socialist Party, about the example of Loures. And, in fact, exemplary work in the Authority of Loures, with the involvement of the Authority, social security and health services, is an example that should be considered at all levels by the articulation that has been achieved. It was made the identification of the dwellings and neighborhoods that the central services of the state did not know, and with the intervention of the authority it was possible to identify and advance in this work, teams were formed with technicians of the municipal chamber, social security and health services, who will talk to people to know what they need, to solve problems of supply of medicines, food, water payments, light or other services, to know what conditions people live in, under what conditions they move to their workplaces, with whom they contact. This articulation has proved to be fundamental. In fact, Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State, knows this and he well knows that this example of articulation has been made among the various entities, not with the authority to replace the government in what is the responsibility of the Government, but with the authority within its competences to associate with the Government in what is the competence of the Government. This was, moreover, signalled by the government itself as an example so that the other municipalities and municipalities in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon could successfully develop their work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u200	In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say the following: Mr Minister, more than a month ago that this issue of public transport was identified as a necessity, and it is essential that you have a response not only to the problems that exist today, but to what we want is the resumption of economic and social activity in conditions of the greatest normality possible from here forward. In the CFP's view, it is also in this perspective of the future that these issues should be equationd. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u201	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u202	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in this last intervention of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, allow me to make some comments, leave some notes on some of the interventions that have been made here and in some way conclude what has been the way we have followed. In general, the tone and the adjectives that have been observed in this debate, which are totally natural in politics, have been a general and obvious concern about the extraordinary situation we live in, the concern that is of the parliamentary benches, but it is also of the Government, and no one should be surprised at this concern and this sense of government state in relation to the situation that we live in, truly dire and worrying and that demands to call all for solutions that are very relevant. In terms of solutions, the debate was, in fact, scarce in solutions. And it was, in fact, scarce in solutions, because they are not as obvious as apparently speech seems to make believe and are often complex. Let me mention some of the interventions that have been made, particularly by the PSD, which deserve some comments. I recall, for example, Mrs Sandra Pereira's speech, which, let me say, went to the bottom of the PSD's fictions — and it is said, in truth, that the trunk of PSD's fictions is enormous — and found a railway plan that we all know never existed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u203	That you guys put in the drawer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u204	And not only did it ever exist as, more serious than that, it never had even 1 € to be implemented. There was a monumental deficit in financing this railway plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the honourable Member has decided to surprise the plenary with this wonder of PSD science to find a solution for public transport, particularly for rail. We have also heard Mrs Filipa Roseta, who, let me say - and I do not want to be misunderstood and interpreted - criticism, criticism, criticism, even to the paleolytic of politics, come back and we all remain in the same. We just didn't understand where you were coming from.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u205	That's why they can't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u206	In fact, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say something that seems important to me: I advise you to ask at home what the PS has done in recent years in relation to housing, which were the concerns of the PS in relation to housing. Perhaps it solves a set of misconceptions that the honourable Member has systematically brought to this House, because, in fact, if there is a party that has committed itself and that has presented projects with regard to housing is the Socialist Party. And about this I don't think we need to continue this conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u207	We need, we need!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u208	I would also like to point out that it is not worth talking about what Mr. André Ventura said, because he is no longer present, but, finally, his interventions are that kind of broccoli sauce to put on Facebook, for everyone to see and make « taste».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u209	Now, go talk to Youtube!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u210	But the PSD and CDS malt likes it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u211	By the way, he's gone and nobody knows anything about what's going to happen. In any case, let me leave a question to the applicants of this important debate, which seems to me to be a very relevant question: what would it be for public transport today if they had followed the path that the right would want, which was the privatization of everything that moves in public transport? We know they tried, we know they couldn't, and yet they couldn't,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u212	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u213	...because, to justify this, just remember how the national health system and public school behaved in this pandemic, precisely because the PS government invested in the national health system and in public school. We were able to fight this pandemic, taking into account these two absolutely essential pillars for our country. Therefore, Mr President and Mr Minister for Infrastructure, we are in a situation where if we learn something from this pandemic, it was the need to strengthen the path we made in the previous legislature. And the way we made in the previous legislation was very clear: to overcome inequalities, to invest in the national health system, to invest in public school, to ensure that inequalities, with these situations, did not increase and did not become dramatic, as we are often, unfortunately, watching.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u215	We are aware of the difficulties, we are aware that we need to do more, we are aware that we have not finished our work, but who has never done anything of this in the past has not taught us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the stage of the debate, so we will move on to the closing stage. To that end, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u217	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that it has been recognized by all the banks and by the government the importance of today's debate, because the eyes of the country and the world are centered on the Great Lisbon region, as the days pass and fear that the cases of COVID-19 will not be controlled. If there is information that is unequivocal is that the first reason for infection is cohabitation and the second is the work context. I believe that the next question, and that will necessarily lead us to the third reason, is to know how people get home, whether at work, and so we talk about transport. Our interpellation was based on these two fundamental topics, housing and transport, to find ways to respond to the evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic. And on this point, the Minister has given us two important information here today that we have raised. The first information was about transport, in particular about the railway and the Sintra Line, telling us that it is studying how, until September, there is another train per hour, but I believe that this statement, having merit — and we hope that it will happen even too much — has a defect, a priori. It is true that today, and the Minister acknowledges, there are times when the rules laid down by the Government and the Directorate-General for Health are not met with regard to social distancement and public health standards within trains in September, with the return of the functioning of schools and universities, with the economy operating more — we hope — than it is working today, this response is absolutely insufficient. I think that is the fundamental point! We have no interest in walking permanently crying what was wrong. We warned, months ago, that it was necessary to respond to the problem of transport and we are now saying it again. We have warned about the problems of defining and on that, what Mr Minister has been telling us, and he has told us today that he owns a sea of impossibility, because the possibilities do not exist. Mr Minister, I understand the difficulties that exist, we have been presenting some of the solutions and Mr Minister was saying that there were some with which he did not agree at all, such as that of the road alternative, which could be studied, but which he did not trust very much. But the Minister has the information that no one else has, and what is required of those who execute is that he executes to ensure the safety of the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u218	But you can give ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u219	It is true that I was even sensitized when I heard the Liberal Initiative defend here that the state should define hours of entry and exit in companies, offices, etc. — came an unexpected support from where I did not suspect that I could come —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u220	It's very unliberal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u221	... but the Minister himself has already presented this solution, which is, in fact, the same as, three months ago, Mr Prime Minister had already communicated to the country and which, as we understand, does not exist in particular. Nor do schools have a plan to ensure that students enter in an open way, nor do companies have any kind of directive in this sense, nor do families manage, from the time frame point of view, because of this. This is a fundamental problem. Why does the Minister recognise this? Because this is an obvious finding.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u222	It's not easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u223	We must then be more imaginative in this area. If it is a question of money, tell us, because we are still in time to change the amending or supplementary budget; if it is not a question of money, there must be solutions. What we can't accept is to say there's nothing to do. In fact, democracy does not work with those impossibilitys. The same is true in the case of housing. The Minister acknowledged today, here, that what was presented by the Government in May, which was the existence of an emergency relocation plan, will now come out of the paper. Is it? Are you going? With what money? Open... If this is what is envisaged in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we have learned that it will even be less money than Mr Neeleman hopes to take from TAP. Two pesos, two measures: after all, there are some that can all be before the state and others who wait and despair for the response the government has to give to the pandemic period. The Minister has said, and has repeated this statement at least three times, that I have recorded, that, looking at other countries, we have found that they do not have any restrictions on public transport. I give you a concrete example: Paris. I must tell you that there is no restriction on payment, even! Mr. Minister can enter any bus and do not pay, you are not required to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u224	But that doesn't solve the lotion problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u225	Now, in Lisbon, since 1 May, all who want to walk in public transport are obliged to pay. However, there is no security that can guarantee them that way. I must tell you that, of the three fundamental points of infection cases that we have identified here, we do not want to create a suspicion about public transport, which we consider essential. But I think you will agree with us that we have to guarantee public health standards for people to trust in public transport. This is the point that led us to mark this debate in relation to public transport and responses to housing policies. That no more month, more month, more month in which the obvious answers are all to be given and the numbers, these, they are always to contain. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u226	The Government intends to divide the time available at this stage to close the debate between the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing and the Secretary of State for Mobility. First of all, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very quickly, because I think it is important, not to say that there is no risk — of course, there is no one saying that there is no — but to give the following information: we have 2000 workers at the CP, whose place of work is the train every day, and we have only three infected; we have 700 cleaning workers who clean our trains daily and we have no cases of infection among these workers. This is information which, in spite of everything, I think it is important to give, so that we do not always look at the same side as the culprit of this pandemic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u228	They're all in the machinist's cabin!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u229	You now have the floor to speak, Mr. Secretary of State for Mobility, Eduardo Pinheiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u230	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by recalling a date — March 18. on that day, it was declared for the first time the state of emergency throughout the national territory. Since then, collective public passenger transport has been considered essential. Could it be otherwise? No, no, no. Having said that, have the necessary measures been taken to ensure a demand-adjusted transport supply, ensuring safety? My answer is yes. Since the beginning of the pandemic, there has always been concern about ensuring measures to safeguard public health at the level of public transport companies, and we have resorted to best known practices. Companies have created and implemented appropriate contingency plans. They ensured the strengthening of the cleaning, hygiene, disinfection of the fleet and installations and, no less important, the limitation of the lotation of vehicles. The demand for transport decreased from 85 % to 90 % at the beginning of the emergency state. However, companies protected, in particular by the Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, have maintained offers far higher than demand. They also ensured the maintenance of start and end times of operations. The first boat or the first composition of subway left at the same time as ever, and at night, early in the morning, with the latter, the same happened. In this way it was possible to ensure that all workers already using public transport, including health, public safety and others, could, regardless of whether they moved on empty or almost empty vehicles, have a response at the beginning and end of their shifts. The maintenance of such a high offer was a conscious decision. I wonder if the decision has and has a strong financial impact on the accounts of the protected companies. Yeah. Due to the fact that safety has been taken care of in transport undertakings or services, the number of contagations between workers has been residual. In addition to the protection measures taken, contingency plans were immediately applied, allowing to avoid any outbreak. With the end of the state of emergency and the resumption of activity, there has been a gradual increase in demand, which is still far from usual. For example, in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, it is about 40%. In the case of the Lisbon metro, to deal with the search peaks, there have been increases of supply at the end of the morning, on the blue and yellow lines. That is, in practice, the offer is higher than that verified a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u231	What about the weekend?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u232	With regard to road passenger transport, it is up to the transport authorities, in particular to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area, to define the offer. It consists of its responsibilities and competences. However, with the recorded and consequent breakdown of revenue associated with the sale of transport securities, we have been taking the necessary steps to strengthen the financial resources available. By Decree-Law No. 14 - C / 2020, we made it possible for transport authorities to use existing public resources, including the funds allocated to the PART, the PROTransP ( Programme of Support for the Density and Strengthening of the Public Transport Offer) and compensation for the sale of Pass 4 /NP 18, Pass Sub23 and Social Pass +. By Decree-Law No 14 - C, we have made available, only for the second quarter, an amount of about EUR 55 million for the whole country. Only for the Lisbon Metropolitan Area were EUR 31 million. With the end of the state of calamity and the return of the activity, we secured an amount of EUR 94 million in the Supplementary Budget, in which more than 65 million are directed to the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. Thus, an offer of around 90 % on road transport is resumed, which in practice allows a 100 % offer at peak times and 80 % at the rest of the time. We are talking about almost double the number of buses, as has already become public by the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. With the extension to the end of the year of the use of the funds provided for in Decree-Law No 14 - C, which adds the amount entered in the Supplementary Budget, we obtain a total of EUR 195 million at national level for the second half, and EUR 122 million is allocated to the territory of the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. Some statements made by some Mr. Members show some lack of knowledge about how passenger public transport operators are paid. However, it should be made clear that operators have been reimbursed by the transport authorities by the services effectively provided. On the other hand, with this offer, there is no real reason for companies to maintain the layoff. But this was an indispensable measure for many sectors of activity and for the road transport of passengers in particular. Otherwise, many jobs would be at stake. Today, we would not have the ability to resume the supply needed to respond to many of the concerns that have been shared here. in recent years, we have made a great investment in improving public transport and substantially reduce the cost to be paid by the user. thus, many Portuguese began to buy the pass and use the public transport system. It is a work that we cannot neglect and which we will continue to preserve. Is everything okay? Of course not. But the government cooperated and was consistent with the work done. He was a predictor. Always solidarity. Be careful. He's planned. Whenever he can, he's sensitized. This is the government we have been, this is the government we are and we will be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u233	We have reached the end of this debate. Before we conclude our meeting and indicate the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u234	Mr President, for the record to be recorded, I inform you that Mr Sérgio Marques, elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, was present, by video conference, at today's plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-07-01.u235	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. I say goodbye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government and I would like to draw the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Members for the agenda of tomorrow's plenary session, which starts at 3 p.m.: this is a marking of the CDS-PP, on authority of the State and security of citizens, in which Bill 101 / XIV / 1 will be appreciated. a ( CDS-PP ) — aggravated criminal framework for crimes committed against security forces agents ( 50. the amendment to the Penal Code) and 454 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the legal type of crime of offence to the physical integrity and honour of security forces agent ( 50. the amendment to the Penal Code) and draft resolution No 535 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — The creation of a regime effectively dissuasing the breach of obligations arising from the state of emergency or disaster and there may be votes at the end. We are thus at the end of our agenda. Everyone wants a good rest of the day. See you tomorrow at 3 p.m. [[It was 18 hours and 2 minutes.]]
