ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the work this Monday. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The first item on the agenda is political declarations. The first is the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr. Paulo Moniz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal and the world go through one of the biggest crises in its history. We have all known to put the national interest and the supreme interests of our people above the party disputes that, honestly, at this time would not have taken us anywhere. But it is also our duty to warn and ask for responsibilities to those who have them, because we do not resign from representing those who have chosen us. « It is time to act for all with urgency and with the same feeling of being for others what we would be for ourselves in self-defense. » That is what I wrote, on 25 March this year, in the middle of the most critical pandemic period, in a message to Mr. Prime Minister alerting what the Azores and the Azores expected from the Government of the Republic and that this time does not have time to wait. If we had a Government of the Republic that rules for a whole country, regional governments would not have the need to constantly promote support for companies or individuals. Today, without positive cases in the Azores, along with defination, it is also time to demand answers and responsibilities. Europe is for the Republic as the Republic is for the autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u4	It is not possible to celebrate such economic bazauca that comes from Brussels without implementing a bazauca of solutions for the Azores as well. To all requests the Azorian people have always responded « present». Now, what is expected is that the Government of the Republic will respond to the "present", too. At the peak of the state of emergency, the Government of the Republic faced the Azorian people by refusing requests to suspend flights from TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) to the Azores. This decision was justified by the Prime Minister with the need to maintain, and I quote, "the territorial continuity with the country as a whole" and by the Minister for Infrastructures saying that the refusal to prevent the TAP from flying to the Azores was, and I quote, "a very firm political option of the Government", moreover ironing the issue. at a time when isolation, which is often a barrier to our islands, could become our greatest shield of protection, we found a government of the Republic insensitive and alien to our desires and needs. The evidence that the argument of territorial continuity is sometimes only useful is that, in the full state of emergency, the Government of the Republic closed airports during the Easter period between 9 and 13 April. What's the difference in principle? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u5	At the most difficult time for the Azores, when the spread of the virus occurred due to imported cases, the Government of the Republic was foolish and left the Region and its own government bodies delivered to its lot. If you're close to sanitary implanted, and well! , were also not limited to the circulation of people and caused territorial discontinuity, so I don't know what they are. of what the Azores needed in the peak of the pandemic was the exact same treatment for the exact same nature. Territorial continuity cannot be argued only at times, as the Constitution should not serve as a shield for some things and not serve others. If so, it will be time to review it and mirror today the practical effectiveness of the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The Government of the Republic, of the Socialist Party, failed the Azores again and this time at the most critical moment of its autonomy. Mr. Prime Minister could well have asked for advice from the President of the Socialist Party, who is an illustrious Azorian. Or have you asked for and are we speaking of a double betrayal to your own people and to the regional government? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This attitude of the Republic towards the Azores was not an isolated case and there are no urgent examples. The year 2020 is already midway, and the University of Azores is still waiting for Mr. Minister of Higher Education to complete the financing contract announced in February, in what has so far not been a major television event. Communications between the Azores and the rest of the world may be at risk and the Minister of Infrastructure does nothing to speed up the process of replacing the submarine cable nor to respond to the demands of the Members on social mobility allowance. It also continues to address the issue of expanding the Horta airport track, a true garrot to the economic development of Faial, to the development of the islands of the Triangle. I remember hearing, for all this, what kind of word would be an honest word. in this short list, because time does not allow us to say all the more, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has ironiced the Azorians with the urgent need to review the Lajes Agreement, saying that he left some matters for other foreign ministers. The Government of the Republic will pay TAP, through Tourism of Portugal, to compete directly with SATA(Açorian Air Transport Service ) in its historical link Ponta Delgada-Boston, a route long consolidated by SATA, the Azorian airline, essential for the Azores and the oldest in Portugal. There is not only one airline in Portugal, there are two. And when the region cannot go directly to Brussels without the support of the Government of the Republic, the minimum requirement is conciliation. We need more action and less conversation. More solutions and less propaganda. Failure to respect the full experience of the political and administrative autonomy of the Azores is to clude to one of the achievements of constitutional modernity of our democratic regime and constitutes a pernicious and dangerous minority and a disrespect for the Azores and the Azorian people. Does the defence of the Azores take place here, in this House, every day defending the best interests of the Azores and the Azores or, as happened last Friday when the Socialist Party voted against the proposed regional finance law, which is very important for all the Azores?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u6	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u7	I'm done now, Mr. President. If this legislation were a budget, the final balance for the Azores is summed up in a surplus of propaganda and a deficit of results. The silence of some in the defense of the people of the Azores has been amazing, in a whole parade of accomplices that are going to dawn on each other. As our currency says, and which well describes the tenderness of our people, taken from a letter from Cyprian of Figueiredo to the king of Castela when he asked for the submission of all a people: "I will not give this counsel to this people on these islands because I think that rather die free than in peace subjects. A good death is to live forever." And may it be so forever, for the sake of the Azores, for the sake of Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u8	Mr President, three Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u9	I will answer individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u10	The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Isabel Rodrigues of the Socialist Party. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Moniz, you did not surprise me, I must say, because I already know your style and your language. However, there was one aspect of his intervention which I found particularly important for the Portuguese and the Azorians: his list of priorities. I am very concerned that, when the country finds itself in an unprecedented crisis, caused by a pandemic that has affected us all, it has affected the region, but it has also affected the whole territory of Portugal — you, Mr President, come here, ignoring what was the last three months of the country's life, making a balance as if nothing had happened, as if the country had not come to nothing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I say so, Mr President, with the tranquillity of those who, over these months, have accompanied all the dossiers which are fundamental to the life of the Azores and which depend on the action of the Government of the Republic. I say this with the tranquillity of those who knew that in the Republic and the Azores there were governments of the Socialist Party to do their best to help the Portuguese and the Azorians to overcome this phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to say the following: the region will receive what it needs and which has already been announced, i.e. the increase in indebtedness by 10 % of GDP (gross domestic product) — that is what the region needs. And the measure is the same as the rest of the country, because, honourable Member, this is not a crisis of the Azores, it is a crisis of Portugal, Europe and the world. You have to open your eyes! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u12	I'm telling you, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u13	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u14	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr President, between this measure and your draft law, which would enter into force on 1 January 2021, you are still coming to this forum today to question what will enter into the supplementary budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Azores do not have the value that you have expressed here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u15	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u16	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Isabel Rodrigues for her speech, which is quite surprising to me. In fact, as I said — and well — we are in a unique situation in the country and for this reason it is completely incomprehensible that the only three Members of the Azores PS, and contrary to Madeira, voted against last Friday, in this Chamber, the increase in the ability of the Azores to be indebted to respond to the crisis, to bring money to families and businesses. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs Deputy, you subjugated the Socialist Party and did not defend the Azores! [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] She could have followed the example of her colleagues in Madeira who chose to defend Madeira by not following the rules of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u17	This was your obligation! That's what I'm going to defend the Azores and not come here to say that I'm with you. We're at the end of 1. the Legislative Session of this Parliament and, in fact, we do not recognize it any initiative of value that brings to the Azores the advantage that would be expected of its participation. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] The honourable Member must not come here to say that she defends and, at the time of truth, votes against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u18	That's why we won elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u19	On the other hand, she votes against, and alone. I have already told you here that the vote is for democracy like cotton: do not deceive! It is not worth the honourable Member to come to say what she wants and, in truth, to vote against the Azorians! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u20	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Moniz, in his speech, brought a broad set of topics. I am not able to address all the issues within the 2 minutes available, but I believe that there is a note that goes beyond the current situation in the relationship between the Regional Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Government of the Republic. And it is strange that this situation is because there are even two governments of the same party, the Socialist Party. It seems to me, but I would like to hear your opinion, that the first of the problems in this relationship is the almost absolute lack of dialogue. It is that, in this pandemic period, they almost looked like lamps to birds and what should exist, that it was a close, fruitful dialogue, it did not seem to exist. However, for months, the Socialist Party itself promised, in the campaign for legislation, that it wanted to set up a conciliation council between the Government of the Republic and the governments of the autonomous regions. Now, there has been absolutely nothing on this matter. There has been a total disconcerting in this relationship before. I believe that this is a relevant point for us to think about the future, to think about whether the future is more disconcerting or not. But this disconcerting also goes through the PSD, let me tell you. I have heard — and I have read — members of the Azores PSD criticise, for example, the state of emergency declaration that the PSD and the Member of Parliament have voted in this House of the Republic! Well, this doesn't work! It doesn't work! There must be agreement to, in fact, have a structured thought for the country and for the autonomous regions. On this structured thought, I imagine that you have been, and will be, according to the capital injection in the SATA, because that is why it serves the additional indebtedness that is permitted to the Government of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and save one of the strategic assets, which is the SATA, to transport and comply with the necessary mobility to the Autonomous Region. I ask you: is it to do what the PSD did with TAP, i.e. to privatize next?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u22	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. It is that, even weeks ago, in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, when the PSD had to vote on the suspension of the privatisation of SATA, the PSD abstained. I wonder if what you are asking is more money to save a company to then hand over to any private, putting in question, exactly, the strategic value it has for the Azores. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u24	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u25	Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Pedro Filipe Soares for the relevant questions, which I have divided into two parts. The first question that he raised, and which I also had the opportunity to mention in my speech, is that there is a complete distancing between the Socialist Government of the Azores and the Socialist Government of the Republic, with the aggravating of the Socialist Government of the Azores pretending that it is all right and that the Government of the Republic solves the problems of the Azores, which is not true. Note the example I gave from the rostrum: Mr President of the Regional Government needed to call the Azores Mr. Minister of Science and Higher Education, as a school director does a teacher, to “rebuke” — between quotes, of course — on the financing of the University of Azores. This well attests to the level of understanding and harmony between the Socialist Azores Government and the Socialist Government of the Republic. Therefore, it could not have been more relevant to your question. In fact, this is perhaps the last sign that the Socialist Government has placed the autonomy of knees before the Republic in the Azores. The second question which has raised, and which is relevant, has to do with SATA. SATA is a very important theme for the Azorians. SATA also carries the flag of the Azores. SATA unites the Azorians within the Azores and unites the Azorians in the diaspora. The Socialist Party has achieved something that we already recognize as a habit: in 10 years, it has achieved a hole of 300 million euros and it is clear that now it needs to be resolved. The PSD is not unpublished to have to collaborate for the resolution of the holes of the Socialist Party! It is part of the democratic history of this country!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u26	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u27	Therefore, what the PSD has done, in abstention, was to create space to think about SATA in the future, without prejudice to putting open all solutions that are the best for the Azorians. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u28	The last request for clarification lies with Mr João Almeida of the CDS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Paulo Moniz, I am very grateful for bringing this issue today to debate. First of all, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate all the Azorians on their efforts and the results they have achieved during this period, which are a reason for pride throughout the country, and to put two questions, one general and one more concrete. The general question is how the honourable Member assesses — it has been made clear by both his speech and his answers, but I would like him to develop a little — the different framework that the Government of the Republic had, for example, in the negotiations with Brussels and then in terms of attitude towards each of the autonomous regions with regard to the need for flexibility in terms of conditions, the need for flexibility in rules and amounts, for example, for funding, where the point was of total need for flexibility with Europe, but at least initially it was a total restriction for autonomous regions. How do we understand that the same government has this attitude towards European bodies and then has no solidarity with the autonomous regions of the country? The second question, more concrete, is whether or not it agrees that, at the moment, it is essential to reconcile two things: on the one hand, to maintain the balance and protection of the Azorians from the point of view of public health, while maintaining the current scenario; on the other hand, to achieve economic recovery as quickly as possible. As regards the first question, whether or not they are missing, as the CDS has said in the region, public health specialists — who do not exist in the region and who, of course, need to be in a context like this — and whether or not this should be a priority of the Regional Government to strengthen the region's capacity to respond to health. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that there should be greater dynamics of the Government of the Region, especially in conjunction with the Government of the Republic, in relation to economic activities in the Azores, from the outset the tourist activity, which also depends heavily on decisions of the Government of the Republic, so that they can effectively give the Azores a prospect of rapid recovery, as they deserve and, of course, we all want it to happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u30	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u31	Mr. President, Mr. João Almeida, the two issues you have raised are important and relevant. The first is, in fact, going a little bit along the line that we need to have consistency. We cannot want the principle of Europe's subsidiarity vis-à-vis Portugal, this House cannot consider compliance with this principle in the various actions it takes, and we do not have the same responsibility, the same perspective in the relationship between the Republic and the autonomous regions. I recall that, in terms of the concentration of the needs of the autonomous regions in Europe, the Azores and also Madeira are forgotten by the obligation of the Republic to include them and to dedicate them to the funds specifically directed to the Azores and Madeira. As we know, these autonomous regions have very large special needs, historically different and with a relevance in monitoring the European standard of living and the European standard of development other than the rest of the continent. It is therefore essential that the Government of the Republic does not do what it has done many times — I would say, too many times — that it is in the negotiations to forget the specificity of the Azores in the various areas of their economy. On the second question you raised, the Azores have three central hospitals and nine islands and have had to give a very hard response to this pandemic, because they were alone, as I said, without the aid of the Socialist Government of the Republic. The Azorians have rejoined themselves to do so 500 years ago — to combat internal and external adversity. But this does not mean that, at the time of fighting the pandemic, you do not have to look at the economy. Now, it's time to look at the economy and we're testing, again, the socialist government... [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] ...to see if you know what you want to do or if you continue your errant regional government movement, without a definite direction, without an assumed strategy and without a guaranteed success. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u32	Mr President, for my part, which is not the Bureau, I am not referring to the inclusion, also to request clarification, of a Member of the CFP. You have the floor, Mrs. Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I welcome the PSD for bringing this issue to debate. We wanted to take this opportunity to address an urgent issue, which requires immediate government action. We are talking about a social emergency, in which one cannot leave behind those who were already in a real emergency. This is the case with the former workers of Cofaco. In 2018, 180 workers were the target of a collective dismissal in a fragile and small economy such as the Azores, particularly on the island of Pico, a company that had been working there since the 1960s. To give an idea of the seriousness of the situation, only in the council of Madalena, this represented an 8 % loss of the active population, which obviously brings serious and dramatic consequences for families, which will hardly be overcome if we enter a recessive context and the contraction of purchasing power. That is why, two years ago, the Assembly of the Republic unanimously adopted a resolution to ensure a special regime for facilitating access, increasing value and extending the duration of social support to workers affected by the closure of Cofaco. In the State budget this year, the CFP approved a proposal for social support for Cofaco workers. However, to this day, there is the economic and social problem we know. The unemployment allowance for these workers is coming to an end — that of some has already ended in May — without the increased support for workers being applied. The CFP questioned, did it a month ago, about what is done of this support and we have not yet received an answer. We think, of course, that this is not the time to forget who was most fragile before the COVID-19. That is why we need to respond to this urgent situation. We're talking about families with no income. We ask whether the PSD also considers the resolution of this problem as urgent and what answer will be given to those who already lived in greater difficulty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u34	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Paulo Moniz.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u35	Mr President, Mrs Alma Rivera, the subject that you have brought to your request for clarification is of the greatest importance, because the Azores conservation industry has historical relevance and is a key component in exports — the latest data indicate that they represented 70 million euros of export. Therefore, it is an industry that contributes to the image of quality brand and economic activity of the Azores. The theme that brought affected the island of Pico and particularly affected the council of Madalena. The PSD has been accompanying this process since the beginning, with initiatives through the Regional Legislative Assembly and here also in the Assembly of the Republic. It is a matter that has merited our greatest attention, not only by the component and social dimension in view of the impact this crisis has had on a small but important council such as that of Madalena, but for other reasons that we find very important: it is that we are designing the Azores in the world but for more than 100 years that the conservation industry, the dairy industry and other industries are the image that brings the Azores brand, the quality destination and the unique product in the world. We cannot risk, in addition to all the social circumstances, dismembering these industries, which are in the DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) of our industrial identity. Let me tell you, however, that there is a record — the last one I remember — of the President of the Government, in one of his scenes, to go to Madalena at the Pico, meeting with the apparent owners of the factory to see, on the floor, the project of the new factory. Therefore, the Azores continue to have a Socialist Party that sells images, which sells some scenes, but every day it is the poverty that the honourable Member here pointed out—and well! — and I thank you for that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u36	We have moved on to the second political declaration, which is for the Left Block Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last weekend, the streets and squares were filled with thousands of people who stood up against racism, demanding justice and equality. The demonstrations in Lisbon, Porto, Coimbra, Braga, Aveiro, Faro, Leiria paid tribute to George Floyd and to all black people who were killed by police brutality or who daily suffer the effects of racism in both the United States and Portugal. People went out on the street against a system, against a culture of oppression that protects racialized people. The mobilization of thousands of people against racism and police violence, in an unequivocal way, outrage and revolt for another black life, for all black lives that have been brutally ended by assaults by security agents, by representatives of the State, who have the duty to protect all citizens and all citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u39	In the United States, a black person is three times more likely to be killed by the police than a white person. In Portugal, we do not know, there is no data, but we know that these deaths also happen. Since 2000 more than a dozen black youths have been killed by the police in circumstances that are still to be learned. I remember their names, because they are specific lives we speak of: Angelo Semedo ( Angoi), Carlos Reis ( PTB), Diogo Borges ( Musso ), Elson Sanches ( Kuku ), José Carlos ( Teti ), Manuel Pereira ( Tony ), Nuno Rodrigues ( Snake ). These are just some of the names of the young people who saw their lives interrupted by police violence. These include many other episodes of police abuse, such as the aggressions against several young people from Cova da Moura, which occurred at the Alfragide squad in 2015 and the attacks against Cláudia Simões at the beginning of this year. We pay our respects to all of them. For all of them we march on Saturday. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Between 2006 and 2016, 80 % of the cases instructed by the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination were filed following complaints of discrimination in education, housing and security forces. In 10 years, 75% of the complaints of racism against security forces were filed and there was no condemnation. Data from the Internal Administration's own General Inspection showed that it has increased the number of complaints against security forces to the highest value in seven years. This reality cannot be denied. We need to recognize it, take it in and find solutions to transform it. These are the solutions that the multitudes who participated in the demonstrations require. Thousands of people in the United States, Portugal and a little around the world cry for the end of discrimination. They denounce the inequality and social exclusion caused by a historically built system based on prejudice, stigmatization and exploitation of racialized people. Racist narratives are based on an identity discourse that separates society from those who belong, those who are the true citizens and citizens, and the others, those who are not. in this process of hierarchy of society, racialized people are continuously represented and treated as strangers to the body of the nation and subalternized on the margins of collective life. The structural racism that persists in society and institutions is responsible for maintaining them on the material and symbolic margins. The obstacles placed on the lives of racialized people place limits on dignity and on the full expression of citizenship. They make it difficult or impede access to fundamental rights, such as the right to security, health, education, quality education, housing, justice, work with rights and a fair wage. It is no longer possible to ignore the problem of racism, just as it is not possible to ignore that anti-racism has conquered the space that is due it in the political agenda and that racialized people have taken on the role of political subject, undisturbed in the transformation of their own lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u41	by claiming that black lives matter, we are stressing that ethnic-racial discrimination, that inequality and social exclusion historically built and maintained, affects and disproportionately affects the lives of people belonging to racialized communities. To affirm that black lives matter is to demand public policies that recognize and remove the obstacles posed by institutional racism, public policies that effectively combat racial discrimination, which guarantee equal access to decent wages, housing, education, health, justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u43	It is about calling for democracy itself to be fulfilled and making a commitment for a more just society that should mobilise us all and everyone. Because of the role it represents in a democratic society, Parliament has an added responsibility in this fight. Silence and inaction do not serve us. How long will complicity last with these inequalities? Until when are we going to let inequality reign? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u44	Eight Members are registered to request clarification. In the meantime, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias informed the Bureau that she would respond in sets of two. The first request for clarification lies with Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira of the PSD. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, I should like to begin by saying that the PSD Parliamentary Group strongly condemns all racist acts or practices based on discrimination based on racial origin. These acts are unacceptable, either in Portugal or anywhere else in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u47	Portugal has a legislative acquis, from the very outset in the Constitution, which unequivocally enshrines the prohibition of any form of discrimination on the basis of racial, ethnic, colour, nationality, descent and territory of origin. But in the same way that we condemn any act of a racist nature, we must also point out and condemn the positions of some participants who joined the demonstration last Saturday, who are truly messages that incite hatred, that promote social ruptures and that contribute to the worsening of the problem rather than contribute to its solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u49	Defending the Constitution and fundamental rights is also condemning these kinds of attitudes, which do no more than promote hatred and which are the greatest fuel for promoting cleavage in our society. In fact, does not Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias understand that what happened last Saturday, instead of being a moment of defence of human rights, has become a completely irresponsible and reckless agglomeration, in terms of public health, in times of pandemic we are living? In our view, the way in which they manifest themselves has caused a diversion in the attention of the central problem, which should be racism rather than public health! To discuss the inequalities that affect ethnic-racial minorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u50	PSD against the world!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u51	...it is, indeed, unavoidable to affirm the importance of the development of policies that address the structural inequalities that are rooted in our society. This has been a long time. Unfortunately, as we all know, these are not recent phenomena. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u52	The next request for clarification lies with Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u53	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, George Floyd's murder was obviously a heinous crime that was in a fundamental and old issue in American society and obviously that image is repugnant to any well-trained person or with correct values anywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u55	That said, racism must always be condemned, racism must always be fought—that there is no doubt about it—because it is an offence to human rights. And in my opinion, even considering American terms, although not our problem, it is an offense to the best American tradition, to the tradition that comes from a Republican like Abraham Lincoln, the first and the great abolitionist, who passes through the march of civil rights, by John Kennedy and by Martin Luther King. Martin Luther King said that taking advantage of the racial issue to generate hatred and violence was a disgrace and it was unacceptable — I quote him in color, but that is what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u56	You can read. It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u57	He's not here to defend himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u58	If you would like to quote more correctly from now on, Mr President. You can read, it's written in our vote, anything else. This is fundamental—it is an offense to the best American tradition. Nevertheless, I would say, Mrs Deputy, that we, in Portugal, despite everything, are not in Minnesota or even in Brazil, for example. Neither our government is comparable to the Bolsonaro government, nor is Mr. President of the Republic comparable to President Trump, nor is our police undoubtedly comparable to some bad American police tradition. Even so, it does not mean that there can be no racism in Portugal, no! Of course there is! There is racism as there is violence, as there is domestic violence, as there is crime, as there are many things we have to fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u59	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u60	In conclusion, Mr President, this cannot be used to incite hatred. Madam Member, I leave you a question and an opportunity. The question is very simple: since you were there, you participated and the Block was highly involved in the demonstration, can you assure us that you have respected the rules of the Directorate-General for Social Distance Health itself? That's the question. The opportunity I give you, Mrs Member, is to, on behalf of the Left Block, demarcate this, because this is unacceptable. The Speaker displayed a poster on which to read: « Good police is dead police».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u61	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u62	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. A hate and death speech against the police...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u63	Thank you, sir. You want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u64	...is unacceptable in that manifestation or any other. The speaker continued to display the poster. Mrs. Member, this is your chance to condemn and demarcate from this, because the lives of the police also count...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u65	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u66	... and only in the last quarter 200 were attacked in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u67	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u68	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira and Mr Telmo Correia, I am grateful for the questions you have asked me. I wanted to start by saying that the demonstrations that took place on Saturday were peaceful demonstrations. What protesters wanted to bring to public debate and political debate were the living conditions that most black people, Afro-descendants, Gypsies, migrant people, live in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u69	These were the conditions and demands of the protesters on the street. when there is a demonstration that precisely seeks to unite Portuguese society around the fight against racism and racial discrimination and the promotion of equality policies, we cannot say that we are facing a manifestation that wants to divide and separate Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u71	That's not true! These people live in Portugal, contribute to Portuguese society in various dimensions, as you and ladies certainly know, and want to continue living in Portugal. Many of them have their renegade nationality and feel deeply Portuguese. Therefore, what we need to know and know is the data of police violence that has affected, in a very significant way, the members of the Afro-descendant community, of the Roma communities. We need the reports that we have repeatedly requested, the audits we have also requested, independent audits, which have not reached us. That, yes, was relevant to bringing light to this problem so that we could, in an unequivocal way and once and for all, know the real dimension of violence and police brutality in Portuguese society. We also lost another chance of gold,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u72	But are you going to demarcate, or not? Are you going to condemn? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u73	... that included the ethnic-racial data in the census to be able to know what the disproportionateness is, how people are affected by racism, discrimination and, in particular, by police violence. This inclusion of ethnic-racial data was refused by the INE (National Institute of Statistics ), which was very important to know. With regard to the question which Mr Correia asked me, I reiterate that the demonstration was peaceful, it was an orderly demonstration, the number of people who participated in the demonstration or, better said, the number of people who mobilized for this cause was far greater than that which the organizers thought and anticipated. The organizers took all the initiatives, had all the care to ensure the safety rules stipulated by the Directorate-General of Health, namely the distribution of masks to those who did not have them and often defective gel for those who did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u74	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u75	That is why we cannot say that the rules have not been respected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u76	The next request for clarification lies with Mr André Ventura. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have not been very well informed whether or not the expressions that took place in the event of Saturday, such as: 'Good police is dead police' or, then, 'The devil wears heavy clothing' and who entered the houses of the Portuguese people. You can turn around, but Parliament today hopes that the Left Block will be able to demarcate these two tremendous, odious phrases against our security forces. Mrs. Deputy spoke of George Floyd, and spoke well. It was unfortunate not to have spoken of Winston Rodrigues, too, or of Antonio Rodrigues, who were killed, having been one of them killed in the neighborhood of Sixal by people of Gypsy ethnicity. It's a shame you haven't remembered them when we only use good racism and bad racism in society. There is one we can talk about and there is another on which the association SOS Racism remains silent—not a word. Is that how they want to conquer the Portuguese with the issue of racism? Is there a good racism and a bad racism? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, because I think that two years ago Portugal was one of the safest countries in the world, based on the Internal Security Report, I conclude by asking if you know, according to this report, how many hate crimes have existed in Portugal in the last two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u78	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Isabel Moreira of the Socialist Party. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u79	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the honourable Member for her speech and also to point out, I am aware of this, the immense symbolic weight that she has to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u80	That's racism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u81	With regard to the demonstration, I wanted to say that it was very important, people came together in a peaceful way to demand equality policies. It is clear that there were isolated people, who do not represent the overwhelming majority of the people who were in the demonstration, who put up posters such as that which Mr Telmo Correia has shown and which are absolutely condemnable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What must be done is to keep these people away, but what happens always to those who are not really engaged in the anti-racist struggle is to make it a spin and ignore the substance, which is really the anti-racist struggle. I would like to say, Mrs Deputies, that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is strongly committed to the anti-racist struggle which it has given long ago, and was discussed last week, a draft resolution with cross-cutting policies in all areas — health, education, housing — so that we can really fight structural racism in Portugal. Mr Ventura here makes the usual game by asking whether there is good racism and bad racism. It is a play of words, because for Mr Ventura there is no racism in Portugal, as he himself stated in the last bill he presented, a shameful bill that wanted to end with the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination. So these are your ideas, but they won't avenge you. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u82	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u83	I would like to say that you can count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. I believe that all of us, as Portuguese and Portuguese, must reflect — and with this end, Mr President — on the reflection that Baldwin gave in his time, at the end of his life, to a white interlocutor with whom he was speaking: "How much longer do I need to wait for your own progress? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u84	In reply, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u85	Mr President, I would like to start by commenting on the issue of the poster so that they do not say that the Left Block does not want to comment on it. In fact, what I find surprising is that, in the presence of thousands of posters in a peaceful demonstration in which most protesters asked for justice, peace, equality, democracy, membership — that is what most protesters ask for — you choose to bring to this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u86	Us? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u87	... two examples that are justly to remove all legitimacy from a peaceful demonstration, a demonstration for equality and a fair demonstration. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is clear that the Left Block is demarcated by statements that have that content;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u88	If it was anyone from the CDS, it was running in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u89	... however, these statements do not translate, in any way—I repeat, in no way—the spirit of that manifestation, the will, the commitment and the mobilization of those people, against others who want to separate, who want to foster hatred, who have a speech that instigates division, that perpetuates prejudice and that wants to keep one and the other subordinates,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u91	...one and the other subalterns, one and the other inferiorized. That is what some proposals brought to this plenary have shown, and that is what some Members have tried to do with the proposals they put forward. So, what we are saying here, and as Mrs Moreira has rightly defended, is that the Portuguese people, all the people who live in Portugal are united in a cause, are united so that progress will take place, are united so that democracy can be affirmed,... [[CH protests.]] ... are united so that democracy deepens and fights all those and all those who systematically on social networks distil hatred against racialized people and become the scapegoats of labor exploitation and capitalist exploitation, which continues to remain in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is against this that we rose on Saturday, that is against this that white, black and other, foreign and national people, stood up on Saturday to say "comes", we want a different world. And this different world is coming. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u92	Ah! That's enough! Finally.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u93	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party. Please, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, in the last few weeks, a little around the world, and last Saturday in our country, thousands, many thousands, have gone out on the street expressing their indignation. A just, understandable and even healthy indignation, either in the face of a heinous act, the murder of the American citizen George Floyd, either in the face of the unacceptable persistence of manifestations of racism, discrimination, inequality, oppression of so many and so many citizens. to those who manifested themselves in the streets of Lisbon, Porto, Coimbra, Braga, Aveiro and Leiria, we transmit from here our solidarity and reiterate that racism is not tolerable and that The Greens will not tolerate it. Today, there are those who want to attack the cause for fighting — the fight against racism — the pretext of how the demonstrations took place. We know that the demonstrations on Saturday involved risks, but there are moments in life and there are causes that justify certain risks. The fight for everyone's right and everyone's breathing is one of these causes. But today, when we pay tribute to all those who are victims of racist and discriminatory violence, we want to remember that they have a origin, they are rooted in profound reasons: in the will of the powerful to divide the workers to better submit them. And these are the roots that need to be attacked. Do you agree, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, that what is needed is to end discrimination in school, ensuring everyone the right to access to public school, on an equal footing? What is needed is to guarantee everyone access to health? What is needed is to comply with the constitutional requirement that all citizens are entitled to a decent housing? What is needed is to ensure that all employment with rights that solves the unacceptable differences that persist? Do you agree, Madam Member, that the rights, which attack inequalities, which make the school a place of democratic participation are respected? This is the safest way to end racist and xenophobic dynamics!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u95	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u96	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The Green Group therefore recommends, in its draft resolution, that we have the opportunity to discuss at another time measures to prevent and eradicate racism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u97	The next request for clarification lies with Mr António Filipe. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Beatriz Dias, we wish to congratulate you on your intervention and say that the CFP, by your past and by your present,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u99	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u100	...there is no hesitation in combating racism and in combating all forms of discrimination. And there is no 'but' or 'half but', we are against racism, we fight it. There cannot be the slightest hesitation, nor the slightest doubt about the position we consider fair to defend in Portuguese society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u101	We think it is to greet that the Portuguese react to situations of discrimination. We remember the way Portuguese society reacted a while ago, about the case that involved the football player Moussa Marega. We are proud to have pioneering legislation in European terms to combat discrimination, in which the CFP has a role that we are very proud of in this House. We believe that it is to appreciate how Portuguese legislation deals with the issue of racial discrimination, so what we have to do is to effectively fight for an application of this legislation that removes all consequences when acts of racial discrimination occur in Portugal. We therefore believe that the fight against racism and all discrimination must always be done on a concrete basis, on a daily basis, as well as going far beyond mere transposition, of mere globalization of words of order. The CFP has already had the opportunity to welcome and solidarity with the struggle of the people of the United States, which has occurred in recent days, against personal violence and racial discrimination in that country, but we believe that in Portugal the path must be made about sensible problems in our society, facing them in particular on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u102	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u103	Mr President, I conclude by saying something that we consider very important: we understand that phrases such as those appearing on the poster that has been very publicised must deserve our most unequivocal condemnation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u105	... because we believe that the fight against racism in Portugal should not be done by stigmatizing our security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u106	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u107	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot, during the week, fight for the rights of security forces professionals and insult them on weekends, because we also want to count on them in the fight against racism in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u108	In reply, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u109	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions of Mr Mariana Silva, Mr PEV, and Mr Antonio Filipe, of the CFP. I must say that I am very grateful for the ENP's presentation of a draft resolution on combating racism and racial discrimination, because it allows to create a broad front of political proposals that respond specifically to the issues of racism and racial discrimination, which must be overcome. Education, health, housing are clearly dimensions where the expression of institutional racism becomes more evident. Studies show that children and young Afro-descendants and Portuguese gypsies are more often held in basic and secondary education and access to higher education five times less. These data must concern and question us, so we need public policies that address this inequality in a certain way, this bias in the teaching system, which is a democratic system that seeks to correct inequalities, but, as far as ethnic and racial inequalities are concerned, it has not yet been able to give concrete and convincing answers to its overcoming. On the other hand, we know that there is territorial segregation and, in the case of the COVID pandemic, it was evident the impact that territorial segregation had on racialized communities, since they had to make longer trips, were those who were in the most precarious jobs and with lower wages, ending up having an impact on the health and life expectancy of these populations and putting great difficulties in their daily lives. The fact that these populations have their legal status in the country due to regularization makes them often subject to operating situations. That is why we need to deepen legislation, increase transparency in the investigation of cases of police violence and also bring the audits we have requested. All information on this matter is relevant. It is information that allows you to combat myths, prejudices and misinformation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u111	... it is information that also allows us to have objective data and a fairly rational look on the situation and, in the end, to design public policies that respond to society, correct inequality and allow that equality that so many have cried out in the past weekend and that, in fact, have been crying over time. Therefore, we must promote an intersectional thought that does not remove any of the dimensions: the size of the class, the size of the gender, the size of the race. All these dimensions must be in shape...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u112	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u113	... as we think and wish for public policies. The exploitation of racialized persons is an integral part of capitalist exploitation, which guarantees the wealth of a small number of people against the exploitation of many others. Well, that has to end and we have the power to do it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u114	The next request for clarification lies with Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, I welcome the importance of the topic which I bring here today and greet her, and even more so because, perhaps, it is more difficult to find two topics on which our vast programmes, the Liberal Initiative and the Left Block, agree: the frontal opposition to racism, racial discrimination and the hate speech underlying it and also the opposition to the political use of any death, as has already been said, without 'but' or'means but'. What prevents me from being more pleased with your intervention? The inconsistency of the political action of the Left Block in these matters. The Left Block is champion of a series of identity policies that in the speeches of some of its leaders, if we replace the words 'black' or 'gypsy' or another minority by 'private investor' or 'bocket investor', is sadly close to the discrimination and hatred we both want to condemn. Do you agree, then, that there is a discriminatory component in these identity policies that you are defending?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u116	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u117	I will finish, Mr. President. We are also in perfect agreement with the opposition to political use of deaths. A few weeks ago, a death in the context of domestic violence in Portugal was both refused—and well! — that a person's death in the United States is used for political use.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u118	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. The question I ask you, Mrs Deputies, is this: are there lives worth more than others, according to age, race, nationality or color?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u120	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, I would like to congratulate you on the topic that brought you to the plenary and the intervention you have made. Above all, on the side of the NAP, we would like to reiterate the importance of this cause, the importance of mobilizing ourselves and making every effort to demand the end of any form of discrimination, but unfortunately we will not be able to count on all the Members of this House. this weekend, thousands of people came to the streets and expressed themselves, including in several Portuguese cities, as a form of protest and struggle in the face of the latest events in the United States. We can have no doubt that racism kills, removes rights, removes views and destroys any possibility of a more just and equal society. Above all, we need to know that we cannot cross our arms and accept these situations as if they were inevitable. It is essential that we make this path as soon as possible, because, however small it may appear in the eyes of some people, insults, aggressions, comments and hate speech are not acceptable, because they contribute to a escalation of violence and disrespect for human dignity. We must be intolerant of racism and such incendiary speeches. In fact, history has already shown us that the paradox of intolerance is often the most appropriate path. Madam Member, the NAP has already introduced a draft resolution to fight for more integrated measures to combat racism, xenophobia and any ethnic-racial discrimination in a transversal manner, which is obviously due to training, awareness-raising and education, not forgetting the importance of access to housing, health, employment and, including the regulation of the profession of socio-cultural mediator, which is not yet resolved in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u122	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u123	I shall conclude, Mr President. Madam Member, the Left Block will certainly agree that we must act now, but I ask: how does this work with your draft resolution, which has been approved, for a national strategy to combat racism? We would like to know what the timings are for this national strategy. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u124	In reply, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u125	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their questions. Deputies João Cotrim de Figueiredo and Bebiana Cunha made me. I begin by returning the following question to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo : do you really think people went out because a political party sent them out? Mr President, people have their own subjectivity, know their living conditions and are mobilized to claim and bring into the public space other policies, another life, other conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u127	People didn't go out because a political party told them to do so. We cannot underestimate people and continue to have this paternalistic look at people who, for centuries, have been enslaved, and not only have they stood up against oppression, against injustice and who, in the past Saturday, as in so many other times, have risen again. And it is not necessary for a political party to call them up, because they have initiative, diligence, subjectivity and know very well what life they want to have, what Portugal wants to build and what country they want to live in. There is no doubt about that. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the other hand, identity policy is the one that unites people in an idea that we have to defend ourselves from the other, but this "other" is a social invention, built precisely to maintain the oppression I have spoken about. It's against this process that people get up and get out. It is to combat this whole process of socialization, in which we are immersed and which often prevents us from having a frame of analysis that takes into account racism and racial discrimination, that it is necessary to create public policies that correct that look, that bring this frame and allow us to recognize that racism is a reality in our society, with perverse manifestations that deeply affect people's lives. Creating a national strategy to combat racism and racial discrimination must begin by involving all anti-racist civil society organizations, organizations representative of the Gypsies, as well as researchers and others who know the reality on the ground. This is the first step we propose: to create a strategy that looks at reality, to investigate, to know and understand reality, to identify the dimensions where discrimination prevails, to listen to civil society, to bring—in a horizontal system, without hierarchy and without sub-alternisation—the social movements, the people affected by discrimination and those who investigate the dimensions of discrimination together to build a strategy with the necessary human and financial resources and resources for its implementation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u128	For a political declaration, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epidemic outbreak of the COVID-19 has brought us several teachings, to say: the centrality of work in our society; the importance of the National Health Service ( SNS ) with a public, universal and general character; the role of public services; the value of the internal market as an engine for development and economic growth; the importance of national production and the need of the country to not fail to produce what is necessary and to ensure the objective of food sovereignty; the need for public control of companies and strategic sectors, such as TAP; the wrong options that constitute the subordination of budgetary policy to the European Union's demands; and the problems resulting from the absence of monetary and budgetary sovereignty, seeking to again push the country for the blackmail of financial markets and for the impositions and conditionalisms of the European Union. In the face of the outbreak, the European Union has dropped the mask of solidarity and cooperation, revealing its true nature and the prevalence of the interests of the main powers and of the major economic groups, to the detriment of the defence of the peoples. There was no adequate response from the European Union to the problems that resulted from the outbreak, both in the health field and in the economic and social spheres. The idea now appears that everything will be resolved with the money that Brussels has to send, it is not yet known how, nor what conditions it will be associated with. They announced a recovery fund worth EUR 750 billion to support economic recovery following the impact of COVID. There's a huge focus around this. On the one hand, from the Franco-German axis, the European Union seeks to emerge as a holder of the miraculous solution to the existing problems and, on the other hand, the government, either dazzled or not, embarks on the stage. It is said that most of this money will be given as a subsidy to States, but it is omitted that they are thinking of sending us the invoice, i.e. that the payment of the loan that supports the fund will then be ensured either through an already suggested increase in contributions by each country or through the creation of European taxes. They are thinking of opening up an advance on account of future payments, with the aggravating of new shares of national sovereignty being committed, in tax matters, to the definition of an industrial development policy in the shadow and on behalf of an artificial European sovereignty. They want, on the pretext of the outbreak, to take advantage of the opportunity to take further steps in deepening the integration process, to withdraw more competences and financial resources from each Member State in such a 'tax union', in a process of centralisation of power to serve the interests of the customs. It is good to say that, in the proposal, EUR 500 billion is expected to be distributed by States in the form of grants, which means a sum for Portugal in the order of EUR 15 billion, which does not compensate for the consequences of the euro, the internal market and the common policies, being far from responding to the needs of the country and being much less than EUR 30 million that have left Portugal in the last three years for tax havens and havens. Despite the insufficient nature of the financial amounts, it is essential that they be made available in the form of grants and that they be put at the service of valuing labour and workers, defending and promoting national production and productive sectors, the recovery of basic and strategic sectors of the economy, the strengthening of public services and the social functions of the State and the sovereign development of the country. It is clear that the problems facing the country require robust measures and long-term responses to overcome the current situation. Certainly, the solution does not go through conditionalisms and macroeconomic and political subjects that fall within the fund, associated with the implementation of neoliberal policies and reforms, nor the maintenance of instruments such as the Stability Pact, economic governance legislation, the European Semester or the budgetary treaty. The people also bear in mind what the years of the Troikas were when the measures adopted by the European Union were not only at the root of the problems that have affected the people, as they have contributed to their worsening exploitation, precariousness and instability, low wages, destruction of jobs and productive capacity, the attack on social rights, social inequalities, poverty and asymmetries between countries. Therefore, as regards measures associated with these structural reforms, one can see what is intended: to start another step in the attack on workers' incomes and rights. Portugal does not need to lose more shares of its sovereignty or need policies dictated to the taste of the criteria and agendas of others, directed by the great powers of the European Union to serve the interests of the great multinationals. What Portugal needs is to rescue the instruments of sovereignty in order to take its options on the basis of our concrete reality, without conditionalism or constraints; it needs to produce here what they required us to buy out and invest in modernising and diversifying economic activity; it needs to recover what should never have been privatized; it needs to accelerate investment in infrastructure and strengthen public services; it needs to free the country from submission to the euro and to the European Union; it needs to renegotiate public debt to free resources for development; it needs a policy of fiscal justice and combating the privileges of large economic groups; it needs to ensure the protection of the democratic regime, the fight against corruption and the realization of independent and accessible justice. All for a free and sovereign Portugal and for the construction of a future of progress and development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u130	The Bureau registered five entries for requests for clarification. How would you like to respond, Mrs Paula Santos?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u131	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u132	Of course. First of all, to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Paula Santos, I recall that a vote was recently adopted on the Day of Europe, submitted by the Committee on European Affairs, and all parliamentary groups voted in favour, except for the CFP. It is therefore surprising that we have heard these statements, in particular because, as we have had the opportunity to inform ourselves in the official organ of the CFP, the Avante! they stated that the Commission's proposals « do not respond to what Portugal needs ». But, after all, what does the CFP need from the European Union or not? Does the CFP think that Portugal needs European solidarity? Or is this solidarity necessary only when it comes to having more money, which, as we know, is indispensable in dealing with the greatest crisis we have ever known in Europe and in the world? The CFP says it needs more money for cohesion and for the common agricultural policy, considers that the recovery fund is far from responding to the needs of Portugal, but does not want any conditionalities or European rules, or, in a contradictory way, the sovereign development of the country with the funds of the European Union. In other words, as it is called tea, the PCP either "sun in the air and rain in the napal" or, I would say more, it looks like those children who hate their parents, who vilipendi them, but who are always of extended hands to have their table. Allow me, Madam Commissioner, to reaffirm that Portugal needs more than ever a united Europe. I ask you, Mrs Paula Santos, how the CFP shares this appetite for more European funds with the contempt for a European Union without which Portugal would be at the level of countries that you so prize, such as Venezuela and North Korea. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u134	Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u135	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, your intervention did not surprise us, because we are suddenly familiar with the traditional position of the Portuguese Communist Party towards Europe and Portugal's participation in European institutions. It is a position we respect, but of which we deeply disagree. And we deeply disagree, feeling very comfortable that we are next to the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people, which is unequivocally in favour of European integration and which recognizes the benefits of 34 years of this integration, which, in fact, resulted from the strategic and long-term vision of Mário Soares, when everyone thought that this was an impossible dream. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The European Commission has put forward a number of proposals that we must honestly acknowledge that they represent a historical reversal to what has been the recent past of the Commission and the main institutions of the European Union. The fact that we have been consecrated and recognized, implicitly—and do not use subterfuges or hide in other expressions—that is, the principle of mutualization of debt, so long-term baptisms, is something that cannot be squambled or underestimated. I believe that the last facts show a positive reversal in the history of the European Union. I would therefore like to ask you whether the recognition of the mutualisation of debt and the substantial strengthening of the financial resources lost to Portugal, which I hope the Council and the European Parliament will confirm, following the proposal from the European Commission, whether or not they are positive to Portugal and, above all, to the Portuguese at such a difficult time as we live. I would also like to ask you whether or not the role of the Government of Portugal, and in particular the Prime Minister, in the approach of positions, to bridge the bridge between the « friends of cohesion », France and Germany, so that it would be possible to reach the proposal we have today on the table and which represents the relaunch of the European project, anchored in its fundamental values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u136	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u137	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to congratulate you and congratulate you on the relevance of the subject which the CFP has brought to the debate today. The promise of European solidarity, which is now being announced, is very different from what happened during the sovereign debt crisis, but it still raises many doubts. For example, will the announced support be made available without re-conditioning? Or will it fall upon the next generation a future of austerity under the Stability and Growth Pact? The Left Block proposes that this be the time to get rid of the share of the Stability and Growth Pact. In order to ensure the effectiveness and size required in the structural response to the crisis, the recovery fund must be provided with another model that goes through the exclusion of conditionalities and is financed directly through the European Central Bank ( ECB ). Does the Portuguese Communist Party follow this proposal, Mrs Deputy? The provision of resources cannot be a waste of support on operating modes, which we know well today have made it difficult to respond to the health emergency and increased the vulnerability of many workers to the virus. This system, of the logic of profit above all and above all, has not only destroyed the planet, but also deepened the precariousness of work and exacerbated social inequalities. The major structural measures supported must defend decarbonisation and digitisation, but also ensure, in return for European support, a concrete improvement in the times, links, working conditions, gender equality and social inclusion of all people and include strategies to strengthen democracy and citizen participation. Does the CFP agree with this vision to ensure a European future that is effectively fairer? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u138	The next request for clarification lies with Mr José Luís Ferreira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u139	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I believe that it is not necessary to be noble in European affairs to realize that even in times of pandemic, the European Union continues to be dominated by the bank. A Europe that has nothing to do with unity and much less solidarity, which decides in accordance with the economic interests and always in favour of its stronger members. A Europe that continues to widen the gap between rich countries and poor countries, between rich citizens and poor citizens. An increasingly reduced Europe is the great protector of the interests of multinationals, as they show, in fact, the transatlantic agreements, as is the case with CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement). An increasingly market Europe and more and more people's Europe, and which has long removed such important concepts as social justice or solidarity from its vocabulary. Today, in the light of what we have heard about the aid of Europe, we realize that the European Union « does not give a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-', as Mr. But the most surprising thing is that, unlike its Japanese or British counterparts, for example, the European Central Bank continues to refuse to finance States directly, but it undertakes to buy EUR 120 billion of securities in markets, public bonds, and still the debt of multinationals, such as BMW, Shell, Total or Telephonic. On the other hand, the European Central Bank may give unlimited liquidity to the banks, without any conditions as to its purpose, but cannot do the same directly to the States. This clearly shows that the European Union is transformed into an instrument of economic neoliberalism and at the service of the interests of large banks and large multinationals, large economic groups, rather than at the service of European citizens and of Europe. I would like to ask you, Mrs Paula Santos, if you share this reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u140	The last request for clarification is the responsibility of Mr João Pinho de Almeida, the CDS-PP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u141	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, in her speech she raised relevant issues from the point of view of national sovereignty and how that sovereignty is affected by the process currently leading to the approval of the new multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund. It happens that part of the CFP's negationist speech on the European Union, which then has no way out. And what I would like to ask you has to do with the appreciation of the component of national sovereignty, which we too do, but with the need for a commitment that has to be able to overcome this blockade, in order to guarantee Portugal the support that you do not reject, on the contrary, require more, knowing that, in order to have these support, in a logic that we are not alone, there must obviously be commitments. I would therefore ask you three very specific questions. Is it important at this time to understand the importance of the aid we are going to have, for example, to know very concrete issues, such as that of couplings? How much, in terms of national counterpart, will Portugal have to invest in order to have access to these amounts? Inexplicably, this discussion is not made. There is talk about what comes and what we need to invest at national level to allow this money to come to Portugal. The second question has to do with the following: this Parliament has unanimously voted against drawing a multi-annual financial framework for seven years. We now have a recovery fund for two years. The other five, exactly the same, from the budgetary point of view, are what all of us unanimously rejected. How it is now possible to say wonders of the same multi-annual financial framework that we all unanimously rejected, uniquely and exclusively because you have an exceptional amount of money for a reality which is also exceptional and therefore does not resolve the fundamental issue. A third question — and here we are addressing the issue of sovereignty: whether or not the debate on own resources, for the amount involved in national effort, which is far from what is normally said, justifies, in some way, regardless of part of national sovereignty, from a fiscal point of view, and, worse than that, the possibility of disregarding the rule of unanimity or, worse yet, doing all this discussion without the involvement of national parliaments, where sovereignty lies in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u142	Please finish, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u143	I will finish, Mr. President. Is it fundamental, or is it not, before any of these matters are discussed, to give a voice to the national parliaments, which is where the representation of the population is and where indeed that sovereignty lies? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u144	In response together to these requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the questions addressed to me. I was beginning to make a reference because there seems to be some misunderstanding here, since a number of issues that have been raised, in particular by PS, PSD and CDS Members have always been in Portugal's sub-alternisation perspective with regard to the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u146	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u147	... without looking at the impacts and negative consequences of Portugal's integration into the European Union. It is important to question this, because between 'duty' and 'beir' Portugal has lost,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u148	For God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u149	...is not winning and much less is being compensated for exactly these same political options. And we can talk about the destruction of our productive capacity, whether in industry, fishing or agriculture, about the destruction of thousands and thousands of jobs, about the loss of sovereignty in fundamental matters, such as those we are now discussing, particularly in monetary and budgetary matters, and now they also want to take over sovereignty in tax matters. All this in a logic of centralization of power and of meeting not the interests of the various Member States. Portugal has been one of the countries that has lost a lot with all this, and has also lost with the internal market and with all the common policies for some to produce and we will stop producing and going to buy when we have the capacity to produce.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u150	We produced and nobody bought!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u151	And this is a fundamental issue in the debate we are making. That is why we say that the European Union is now coming, with this proposal, to make it believe that the great solution and measure for concrete problems is here, because it is actually a proposal that, with regard to its amounts, is not enough, in view of our development needs and our structural problems, which have become very evident with the crisis we are facing at the moment, even at the level of basic aspects, for which we have seen how important it would be to have the capacity to produce here. This was the case with masks or gel alcohol or even food production capacity, exactly to feed our population. This was, in fact, an aspect which became quite clear. But this proposal also has a very serious problem, because it remains tied to all the conditionalities of the European Union, which prevent development and investment in our country, and investment where we believe it is necessary and not where others decide that we should invest. Don't! We are sovereigns and we must decide where to actually allocate the resources from the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u153	But we are talking about a set of amounts that remain associated, and everything remains, both the Stability Pact and economic governance, and the European Semester, when we all know how this limits and conditions the development of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u154	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u155	Even to conclude, Mr President, and because there have been several aspects raised here, in particular in Mr José Luís Ferreira's speech, and very specific questions, as happened in Mrs Fabíola Cardoso's speech, I would like to say that, of course, we believe that there must be a strengthening of the multiannual financial framework...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u156	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we believe that there must be a strengthening of the multiannual financial framework, we believe that, of course, there must be national contributions, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u158	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe that, of course, there should be national contributions, but in accordance with the principle that countries with higher incomes and those who have benefited more from the integration process should contribute more. There must also, of course, be not only the repeal of all mechanisms that prevent the development of our country, but also the possibility of direct financing from the European Central Bank to the Member States through the direct purchase of debt securities, avoiding the intermediation of markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u160	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u161	They were concrete proposals which the CFP has already put forward. Mr President, I apologize and thank you for your tolerance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u162	The next political declaration is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epicenter of the COVID is currently the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, with 75% of the new cases, in particular in five municipalities — Amadora, Lisboa, Loures, Odivelas and Sintra —, which recorded about 7000 active cases on June 7. It may seem a lot, but it represents 0, 4 % of the people of these municipalities. To make faith in the DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), this focus is identified and is linked to economic areas with great turnover of workers, mainly affecting people between the ages of 20 and 40, asymptomatic, of mitigated risk and therefore should be in isolation at home, or in specific places, under active surveillance. In the face of this situation, Antonio Costa wanted to reassure the country and said: « There is no reason for alarm, the focus is very well identified, so we can all continue to live in security in Lisbon ». Mr President of the Republic reinforced the message, saying that we cannot confuse a massive test action in the area of civil construction and in five municipalities with the spread of the disease in society. Ms. Minister of Health explained that according to INSA ( Instituto Nacional de Saúde Doctor Ricardo Jorge ), the mean of R is 0, 89 in the North, 1, 09 in the Centre region and 1, 02 in the Lisbon region and Tejo Valley, i.e., the latter is not at the moment the region with the highest rate of contamination reproduction. It is too often the uncomfortable impression that we may not have been as careful as we were in the start for defining in terms of both human and digital essential screening. at the same time, in the country, the number of hospital admissions around 400. I remember the ladies. Members that this value is 10 % of the limit of admissions, according to which, and according to the experts, it would be necessary to stop defining, so it is far away from concern and ruptures. « Limited », « controlled », « heavily tracked », are the words that our authorities associate with this outbreak even today at the meeting in Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ). Amazingly, and despite all this, Marta Temido decided, for the second time in three months, to suspend the health activity not urgent in the municipalities affected. An incomprehensible dissonance and a serious decision for 1.5 million users who are once again unable to access health care in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u165	Many of them have been waiting for more than a year for their unmarked consultations and their postponed sine die surgeries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the outbreak is controlled, if the COVID patients are followed at home, if there is care capacity in hospitals, what justifies this retreat in health services? How does the battle of fear win? There are equally safe alternatives, such as the dedication of some hospitals to COVID-19, freeing the rest to treat all other patients, which we know exist beyond the trails, decrees and orders. It is the Minister himself who estimates that 540 000 specialist consultations, 51 000 surgeries and 840 000 primary health care consultations are pending. This adds up to previous and long waiting lists that go far beyond the maximum guaranteed response times. To the dissonance that remains unanswered, there is another question. How does the government propose to address this new public health problem, this silent epidemic, after all of the undiagnosed, untreated, non-careful, those who are afraid to return to hospitals because they do not know if it is safe? The answer presented in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme is not sufficient. If, on the one hand, it promises incentives for health teams to produce more consultations and surgeries in the SNS, on the other hand, it forgets the reduction imposed on the same production by the new safety rules. If, on the one hand, it promises to increase the number of beds in ICUs (intensive care units), on the other hand, they are still, partly uncertain, more than a third of the fans that should have arrived from China in mid-April. If, on the one hand, he promises visits by family doctors to the homes of the elderly, on the other hand, he does not explain how they will accommodate this task, in addition to the 840 000 consultations that have to be carried out. The answers will have to be given in the corrective budget, which cannot only be the correct account of the COVID. The unattended needs of the people, the aggravated morbidity of the patients are the new, silent epidemic, which does not sympathize with the eternity of waiting, but which can be stopped immediately through the contractualization with the private and social sectors. Investing closely in the SNS is essential, but ensuring citizens health care, in time and time, is a priority, as the CDS has always defended and will defend again in time of recovery. Therefore, in this amending budget, the government will have the opportunity to show the country that serves: the National Health Service or the health of people. As the Minister likes to say about others, this choice, in this Budget, will also be attached to her skin. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u166	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, six Members have signed up for clarification. You will have to tell the Bureau how you want to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u167	Mr. President, I will answer two at a time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u168	All right. We then moved on to the first group of requests for clarification. The first is Mrs Cláudia Bento of the Social Democratic Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the Social Democratic Party accompanies the concerns expressed by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS. It will not be easy or quick to recover all of the consultations and surgeries that were to be carried out in the National Health Service. At the hearing last May 20, Ms. Minister of Health acknowledged that, until April, many consultations and surgeries were to be held. The numbers have already been described here by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, but it is important to remember: at the level of primary care, about 840 000 medical consultations and 990 000 nursing consultations have not been conducted; at the level of hospital care, 540 000 specialist consultations, 51 000 surgeries and less than 400 000 emergency episodes have been completed. It is the duty of the National Health Service to begin responding to consultations, tests and surgeries that were delayed due to the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. It is crucial to ensure that there are sufficient resources, to develop protection protocols for professionals and patients, so that they can trust and seek the health care they need. However, it is important to remember that the degradation of access to health care is not only now nor is it due only to COVID-19. In fact, official data indicate that in recent years there has been a decrease in the number of presence medical consultations in primary health care, as well as a reduction in the number of patients operated in public hospitals. There was only an increase in the waiting time of the surgeries, for which patients operated in 2018 had to wait on average 39 days, compared to 27 days of waiting in 2017. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, with the union of efforts between the public, private and social sectors, we can solve this problem of lack of access by users to health care. I ask you why does the government insist on not following this path? Is it because you believe that the public sector is sufficient to ensure that Portuguese people have access to quality health care, in time and time, or, on the contrary, because it places their prejudice above the citizens' rights and specific interests? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u170	The second request for clarification lies with Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I must confess that I did not fully understand — I suppose — at least the intention of the political declaration. I did not understand whether you were criticizing both the statements by the President of the Republic and the health authorities on the current epidemiological situation or whether you were criticizing a precautionary measure — the suspension of health activity, again, in the Lisbon Region and Tejo Valley — to ensure availability and readiness to respond, if necessary. Let's hope it isn't! If you are criticizing the second one, it also criticizes the CDS-PP itself. Notice : in mid-March, on 16th, when Portugal had already 14 days the first confirmed cases, we had cumulatively a total of 448 cases in the country, i.e. an incidence of 117 cases per day, of 206 people in hospital and of 17 in intensive care units. The CDS-PP then proposed the closure of everything until the Assembly of the Republic. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u172	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u173	Now, we have a really different epidemic phase, so your criticism does not seem to make much sense of what the CDS-PP has come to defend, up to a recent past. But I understand where you want to go, I think. He wants to create a narrative to reach the conclusion and the usual derivative of the CDS-PP, that is, we need to finally give more money to the private to do what the National Health Service should be doing. Mrs Deputy, on 16 March, when the CDS also wanted to close everything even though there was much less incidence and much less cumulative cases, the hospital of the SAMS (Medical-Social Assistance Services) closed and there were even private entities, from other economic health groups, who also closed. There were even many other private entities who, during the epidemic, sent a request to the Ministry of Health to request that the conventions be suspended with this Ministry, because this epidemic is not with the private and they were not much to soil their hands with it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u174	Sir, you're going to have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u175	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Member exactly what she wants with this intervention. Do you want to criticize the CDS-PP or go back to the story of giving money to the private? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u176	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u177	Mr President, I begin by thanking the two questions. Mrs Cláudia Bento, it is clear that we agree. Knowing that, when we have, in the Hospital de Santa Maria, for example, ophthalmology consultations carried out with a period of 208 days waiting for the 60s that are scheduled for the maximum guaranteed response times, or an orthopaedic consultation, which has 469 days waiting for the 150 days guaranteed in the law, it is clear that it is necessary to put people first and join efforts so that this does not happen. Mr Moisés Ferreira, I know that you always have this difficulty when the CDS intervenes in the field of health and that follows the following: for the honourable Member the question is always measured between private and public. Therefore, when the CDS puts the issue in people and in health care that should be provided to people, this confuses it a little, because it leaves out of its key of analysis of reality. [[That's a laugh from BE Mésos Ferreira.]] Look what a strange thing! For the CDS, the concern is even to care for people, it is even that they have health care in time and time, while the honourable Member is concerned about their ideological wars and who, at the end of the day, wins or no longer wins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u178	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u179	So, I know that this conversation becomes very difficult when each's goals are quite different. I would also like to tell you, Mr President, that you have to make a decision and choose one of two possibilities. When we were in a state of emergency, he said that the private sector was opportunistically removed from the scenario, when he knew, as well as I, that it was in accordance with DGS' guidance and that DGS itself, by decree of the Minister, suspended all non-COVID activity that was not priority, i.e., on equal circumstances. What happens now in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley? The SNS resuspends and closes doors and the private keep the activity. What is your argument now? What are we staying on? Knowing the honourable Member, I think he will use the two arguments at the same time, because it is best for his cause, which is the cause of demagogy. If you don't mind, we're concerned about time and time appointments for people and with surgeries when you need them. So for this petition I let him speak alone. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u180	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, thank you very much for bringing this issue to plenary today in your political statement. We were at the Infarmed meeting this morning and one of the things that happened to me in the middle of that conversation, after weeks of hearing about the Portuguese miracle, was that I had finally been able to find out what this miracle is: it is not to be able to definate, nor to be able to control the pandemic. It has been said to us today that Portugal is the third country that has been least out of date, but the second country with a higher incidence rate in the last 15 days, therefore with the largest number of new cases of infection. It's hard enough! We can discuss the reasons for this lack of control and this lack of demarcation — the unclear rules, the history of children and children, which has already brought here once, or the inadequate application of some of the rules, which were even clear, as it was today also clarified, regarding what is happening at airports — but one thing is clear, and the honourable Member has the merit of bringing this debate, which is, once again, the postponement of consultations and surgeries, now confined to the Lisbon Region and the Tejo Valley.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u182	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u183	If I may, Mr President, I shall conclude with this very simple and very pungent question: why is it that, with this delay, the whole left parliament continues to refuse the extension of the SIGA SNS (Integrated Access Management System ) and the SIGIC (Integrated Management System for Surgeon) to the private sector, so that we can recover the lists of consultations and surgeries, which already accumulate to hundreds of thousands, and that those who are not concerned about these people persist in rejecting?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u184	You have the floor, for a request for clarification, Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the CDS-PP has to define itself once and for all: I do not know whether the CDS that speaks here today is the same CDS that supported a government that cut EUR 2000 million in the National Health Service between 2012 and 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u186	Oh, is it? Oh, my [[Rice from the CDS-PP MP Ana Rita Bessa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u187	What would the CDS say if, in the last two months, the National Health Service had not been the guarantor of the health of all Portuguese people? This was done because we had a Government of the Socialist Party that recovered the National Health Service, recovered the investment, recovered the bet and appreciation in the health professionals to whom now VV. Ex. beating hands. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked: 'What does the Government of the Socialist Party have in the Stabilisation Programme to recover? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u188	I read it, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u189	It is a concern that is not only yours, it is a concern of all, it is the recovery of assistance. That is what distinguishes us, Madam Member: the Socialist Party's Government has two measures in this document which are totally contrary to those which you defend. First, the appreciation of health professionals. How? Hire more 3000 professionals. Madam Member, this is about hiring, recovering, more professionals for the National Health Service! Secondly, with more incentives for production. If the National Health Service was able to recover, to fight the pandemic at the moment, why will it not be able to continue to fight the difficulties of the Portuguese? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in the National Health Service and its professionals that we should bet on, and this is done with concrete actions, as the Government of the Socialist Party has in this program, not with an incentive to bet on private groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u190	You have the floor to answer the two requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u191	Mr President, Mr Luís Soares, if it is you, read other things besides the documents your party puts before you. [[PS protests.]] Who said that the SNS would not be able to respond alone to the post-COVID-19 and admitted to making use of the private was Mr.Minister of Health. Therefore, apparently, the Minister of Health is more in line with the position that has always been the position of the CDS and less according to yours, Mr. This is an existential issue which I would like to leave for you to resolve when you are wandering or, if necessary, to speak with the Minister of Health. It even seemed to me a very lucid opinion by the Minister of Health to say the following, which is such a simple thing: that it is perfectly possible to invest in the SNS carefully, at the same time that the urgent and immediate problem of people who have been waiting for consultations and surgeries for more than a year is solved. Mr President, perhaps you do not know this, because perhaps you are not waiting for consultations and surgeries a year ago because perhaps you did not call him to uncheck a consultation that was already scheduled for six months. She said that there were only half a dozen cases in these councils — controlled cases — Mr Prime Minister said, and Mr President said — but she still believes that they justify the suspension of services! If you invest in the SNS it is to suspend the services, because you don't even rely on the ability they have to respond to the few cases that there are, then, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have to do a great self-reflexion exercise, because the SNS is much worse than we all believe. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u192	We passed on to the last group of requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by saying that we are following up on some of the concerns that the CDS has brought us on this subject, which is indeed very expensive to us from now on with regard to the current health context and the defination and the need to strengthen the means here, particularly in the areas that are now under pressure, such as the Lisbon and Tejo Valley. So, in this regard, we fully monitor your concerns. However, we have diverged into an aspect that we find essential, which is, of course, the ability to respond which, in our view, has now become more visible, but which depends on a structural problem of disinvestment, years after years, in the National Health Service and on the professionals who provide the most basic medical care to our population. Madam Member, the crisis we are experiencing has indeed shown this problem. For the CDS, the response always goes through public-private partnerships and funding also at the level of the private media — the honourable Member did not make it clear whether or not there was a greater investment in the National Health Service, which is fundamental to us, so we would like to hear about it – but we cannot underestimate that there is a wide range of the population that does not have the same socio-economic context and the same access to health as others. That makes all the difference, Mrs Deputies, because not everyone can use private means. It can be seen that the successive de-investment over more than a decade has led to the loss of more than 3000 beds in Portugal of the political responsibilities of which the CDS is not free, which has led us to have a deficit of more than 5000 doctors, among so many other needs that are addressed to the SNS today. We also have spending on health prevention, which represents only about 1%. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we would like to know from the CDS whether or not it really agrees that there has to be greater investment in health, particularly in the valorization of its professionals, hospital equipment, rather than in dispersion...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u194	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u195	I conclude now, Mr President. Until I can only mention and recall that we have very recently pointed out the 40 years of the National Health Service, before which people did not, in fact, have access to what is universal health care and that when, in fact, the crisis has pressed, who was here to respond was our SNS. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u196	You now have the floor, for the last request for clarification, Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs Ana Rita Bessa on the subject which is quite timely, but allow me to tell her that, not the CDS was one of the main ones responsible for the weakening of the National Health Service and for the defence of measures that deepen the path of its capacity to respond, even transferring to the private that response capacity, it would seem that the proposal and the vote of goodwill for a thorough investment in the National Health Service would in fact represent an investment in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u198	At least you heard!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u199	The National Health Service has proved what the PCP has always said: that it has an irreplaceable role, in terms of public health, in response to the entire population, which well deserves. Mrs. Member, we know that health professionals— doctors, nurses, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, operational assistants and all other health professionals—do not want users to go to the private service. They want to have conditions to be able to respond appropriately to the users of the National Health Service! The elimination of non-emergency scheduled activity and regular activity is a concern for us. For this reason, and because we understand that this moment we are living is a decisive moment for the National Health Service, the PCP presented an emergency plan that must therefore respond not only to the issues related to COVID-19, but also to those related to the suspension of the planned activity and also to the regular activity, Mrs. We therefore advocate an emergency plan that must be based on the need to strengthen the human resources of the SNS — yes, human resources are fundamental to the National Health Service! — and to put an end to their chronic underfinancing. in this emergency plan, we also defend the strengthening of the number of acute beds, the strengthening of the number of continuous care beds and palliative care in the public response, the strengthening of mental health, the existence of a strategic reserve of personal protective equipment, finally, so many measures that would solve much...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u200	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u201	Finally, Mr President, with this question: will the CDS follow up with the CFP in this proposed emergency plan already presented in the Assembly of the Republic, or will it continue to defend the private initiative, as it has always done? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u202	You have the floor to answer these two requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u203	Mr President, I begin by replying to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, whom I thank for the questions. First of all, I did not speak in PPP (public-private partnerships). That is an issue that you have in mind, but that is a subject for tomorrow's debate. We'll have time and talk about it tomorrow. On the investment in the SNS, it is enough to hear Mr João Dias, from the PCP, who paid attention to my political statement, in which I said « investing carefully in the SNS is essential ». Therefore, yes, Mrs Deputy, it is certainly necessary to invest in the SNS carefully. Furthermore, we will also have the opportunity to discuss, except error next week or next week, a CDS proposal exactly to address the recovery of waiting lists and, as Mr. João Dias says, of the time that has passed and of the activity that remained behind and of that which is now the current activity and that continues to have no response. The honourable Member says that she disagrees with us on the way, but the problem is precisely that there are many people whose wallet does not allow them to use the private and therefore are relegated and forced to wait times that are completely incompatible with their health conditions. It is precisely because we do not agree and cannot tolerate this that we consider the contractualization where there is ability to respond in time and time to these people, as, moreover, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo also said — the obvious, logical, pragmatic answer and the best possible answer. Mr João Dias, if I were a Member of the Socialist Party, I would be very happy because anyone who hears you speak would say that you have no complaint about the last four years. To you, it was all wonderful, there was no captivating, everything flowed and the SNS is running very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u204	Comparing to PSD and CDS time...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u205	For you, only in the government before the previous government is that there was a great transfer to the private. But, Mr President, do you know when the private sector grew more in consultations, in invoices, all these things that you don't like to talk about? It was in the former legislature! You know why? Because as long as there is no real investment, as long as it is proclaimed and you continue to vote State budgets which, in practice, do not channel any money to the SNS, people, if they want to have their health situation resolved, have no other remedy than to go to the private sector and the social sector. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Therefore, Mr President, every time you approve a Socialist Party Budget you think well! [[PS Deputy Luís Soares Protests.]] Think if you are creating a narrative or if you are actually caring for people's health. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u206	You now have the floor for the next political statement, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear to all that, as the NAP has been warning for years, the difficulties we are experiencing could be much smaller if the country had not put everything in a mass tourism focused on in the very short term. This alert alerts us to the need to promote a diversification of the national economy and a reformulation of tourism in order to ensure social, economic and environmental sustainability, as well as to ensure that it is also useful to develop the interior of the country. at this time, the revenue to stop the worsening economic situation goes through a robust package of measures, which contain the damage and introduce structural changes and a careful reopening of economic activities. The NAP always said that this reopening was necessary, but that it should be cautious, so that all efforts that the country has made for two months would not be wasted in weeks. The government wants to put everything at risk by not guaranteeing this caution, for example with regard to the reopening of the country to international flights. These flights are important for the resumption of tourism and restoration, which are of the main economic activities in our country; however, the way in which the government wants to do so — without effective health control — raises not only many doubts but also concerns. I recall that, also at the beginning of the health crisis, one of the areas in which the Government could have acted more rapidly and rigorously was precisely the controls on entry into the country. at an initial stage, there were not only no entry restrictions, as the entries that occurred were not preceded by any preventive and health control measures. Although the virus arrived in the country on March 2, only on March 10, the government, shielded by international guidelines and recommendations, prevented flights from the most affected areas of Italy, but continued to impose no health controls on passengers arriving from other countries. The lack of these controls and restrictions has led to the worsening of the epidemiological situation in our country today, we know from the government's reports. Until 17 March 62 imported cases were identified which were associated with recent travel or stay in countries of the European Union. However, these data show us that, because of the risks involved, air flights should be looked at with the utmost caution and that we cannot make it easier again, repeating the mistakes we made at the beginning of the health crisis and in the weeks preceding it. However, once again, the pressure caused the Government to reopen the continental airports on flights from any destination, only with an obligation to measure the body temperature at entry. In other words, it is a kind of "account that we control who enters the country"! If we don't see: in the last few days, Portugal has received five flights coming from Brazil, a country that is nothing more than the epicenter of the epidemic in Latin America, the third country in the world with more deaths by COVID-19, accounting for more than 600,000 cases and 35,000 deaths. Although in Brazil, unfortunately, the virus is totally out of control and because of Bolsonaro's irresponsible and negationist decisions, the situation does not have any prospect of improvement in sight, Portugal does not only prevent flights from coming from this country as if it were only to carry out health checks equal to those made to passengers from any other destination; that is, we limit ourselves to making a measurement of body temperature. These health checks are clearly insufficient, taking into account all we already know about the disease. The opening of airports must be responsible, secure and with transparent epidemiological criteria, which provide for other health control measures, as the NAP has been proposing, i.e. that the traveller had a negative result in the COVID-19 test within 48 hours before embarking, so that, instead of taking steps forward, we do not see a serious backwardness within a few weeks. Moreover, to demonstrate that these controls we have are not sufficient, it will be enough to look at what is happening at other airports. In the autonomous regions, anyone who arrives has to have a negative test evidence carried out up to 72 hours earlier. In Vienna, besides offering tests for those who leave, those who arrive must have a negative test certificate carried out in the previous four days. In Greece, a country also exposed to tourism, passengers coming from countries considered to be at risk must be tested. Why should Portugal do different, in a facilitator's view with regard to COVID-19? Now, because we know that the PS and the Government are very sensitive to international recommendations, we wanted to remember here: the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Air Transport Association recommend that, upon arrival, passengers, in addition to being subject to temperature measurement, have to present a declaration of health proof of negative test. It is not understandable that we are making a person who arrives from abroad the same health controls as we do at the entrance of the schools, to the students of 12. year. by not imposing a strengthening of controls at airports, we forget that a slowdown in front of public health can mean an anticipation of the second wave, which, if it emerges too early, may constitute the final slaughter in the economy and, in particular, in tourism and restoration, in a completely counterproductive way. In view of the government's inertia in this area, today the NAP has introduced an initiative which advocates that, in addition to continuing temperature measurement, additionally requires passengers to submit a declaration of health proof of negative test to the COVID-19, carried out 48 hours before boarding. Only in this way can we give the necessary confidence to those who are here and also to those who want to continue visiting us. Trust and security are the key words of the return of tourism. The excellent image that Portugal has abroad, built and solidified from a few years ago to this part—and currently reinforced by the efficiency with which it has dealt with this pandemic— will certainly play in favour of our country as a choice of tourist destination. But this image and feeling of trust cannot be destroyed by a health facility at this stage. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u208	Mr President, the Bureau records the inclusion of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to make requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u209	Mr President, I will respond to all requests together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u210	All right. So you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Norberto Patinho, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u211	Mr President, Mr André Silva, here I would like to highlight and commend the great effort made by the Government of the Socialist Party and the competent authorities to implement health rules and border control, with quite positive results, in view of the enormous seriousness of the pandemic that has afflicted us. The measures adopted were coordinated with the other Member States of the European Union, in close coordination between the holders of the internal administration and health folder. A pedagogical attitude, a reinforced health control at airports and a follow-up of the work of the security forces at land borders, in addition to positive results that are evident, is worthy of international recognition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This recognition has led us to be considered the safest destinations in Europe. I am a member of a district where, separated by a virtual border line, Portuguese municipalities of the line, a little more than a dozen kilometers away from Spanish municipalities, have zero positive cases, in contrast with populations with large percentages of Spanish infections. I ask you, Mr President, if you think that this evidence is due only to luck or the fruit of chance. Mr President, if, at first, the objective was to control the pandemic without killing the economy, it is now necessary to resume the economy without uncontrolled the pandemic. The route taken by the government has been, and will continue to be, to rely on competent authorities, health authorities, always in coordination with the other Member States of the European Union. The results of this strategy have been quite positive. Turning again to my territory, I very much welcome the Alentejo beaches considered as the safest in Europe. Finally, I ask you, Mr President, how does the NAP understand that we should reconcile health measures with an urgent need as is for people to enter our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u212	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr André Silva, I believe that we can only agree with regard to the fact that there is indeed a need for caution in the situation that we live not only in Portugal but in the world, following the objectives of prevention of public health. But the caution...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u214	Do not say « chicken broth»!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u215	... and prevention must always be done with proportionality and rationality, as is obvious. For example, the NAP argued that the state of emergency should have extended much longer than that extended. It is understood today that this would have been a disproportionate measure, that is, there had been no proportionality in the caution that is needed. It is still obvious at the morning meeting in Infarmed that the incidence of new cases that continue to exist, particularly in the region of Lisbon and Tejo Valley, will not be related to the defination measures or to the individual behaviours associated with this defination measure. Therefore, it was not necessary to extend this state of emergency. The same must apply to the issue of airports and now recognize that there is a complex reality here. For example, the obligation to present evidence of negative tests, in addition to constitutional problems, which I will no longer address, also presents the problem of the effectiveness of the measure. Everyone knows that a test, in the same person today, can be negative and, tomorrow, be positive, because the virus may not yet have manifested itself. Therefore, I believe that there is a complexity in this disease and that it is necessary to make the health authorities also define the essential rules. But, and we have already said this today, it seems to us that, for example, the conduct of epidemiological surveys to which you enter the country is a good practice, which must be carried out in order to have information on all the people with whom you have contacted, so that, if necessary, future transmission chains can be established.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u216	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u217	Mr President, I shall end by leaving another question to Mr. Given that we know that in Portugal, at present, outbreaks are mainly caused by housing and labour issues, what measures does the NAP consider to propose in these areas to protect people who in Portugal are most vulnerable to their socio-economic situations? This is where the epidemic is developing right now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u218	You also have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Maló de Abreu, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you will excuse me for taking this opportunity to congratulate Mr José Manuel Pureza, an extraordinary parliamentary officer and my dear friend. Mr André Silva wanted to say that we basically agree with you on the diagnosis he makes. So, on our part, there is a willingness to deal with this subject as it should be treated: talking, better understanding the problems, trying to reach an understanding. There is therefore a great openness on our part, and we believe that we must also take very special care of our borders. It is that, first of all, the immigrants, or rather the non-residents in Portugal, who cross these borders and who still do not know exactly what the rules, "the lines with which they are sewed" are going to cross the borders this summer, already very close, and also much of the tourism in Portugal, which is whether or not there is a need or not to change the paradigm, which is fundamental to the Portuguese economy and to face the natural economic difficulties that come there. It is therefore necessary to balance safety assurances at the health level and to balance security at the border crossing. But what I ask you, Mr President, is to agree with us in three 'nos', which we say perennially. The first ‘no’ is the non-facilitism; the second ‘no’ is the non-coordination and the third ‘no’ is the non-discrimination. Not to facilitation because there is a need for stricter rules at the borders and airports. Not to discoordination, for example, has happened recently with Spain. I believe that it was not Portugal's fault and, at least, the Portuguese Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, but that there was discoordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u220	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u221	And not to discrimination, because it is not possible that Greece in the European Union has behaved with Portugal as it has done. Finally, Mr President, Mr President, perhaps you do not know—because it is relatively new or not old enough—an old announcement from TAP, which said the following: 'TAP is not running, fly! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We know that today TAP is not good, which is different. [[PSD applause.]] [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u222	Mr. Deputies, you really have to fly to the end, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u223	But what cannot happen at the borders is: « Whoever enters Portugal does not stop, flies. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u224	Mr Maló de Abreu, thank you for your kind words at the beginning of your speech, of which I promise 'to avenge myself' in a brutal way at a next opportunity. You now have the floor to answer, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members for their requests. Ladies and gentlemen did. Mr Norberto Patinho said that the government has already stepped up health control at airports at this stage, but we have not yet seen anything. What the government is still doing is controlling body temperature. We have not yet seen any additional measures to improve the health of our airports. He asked what evidence we have. I can give you the data from the government's reports that, at the acute stage of prevention, the government has failed and reacted late by not preventing people from countries with serious situations and by failing to carry out adequate health checks. Thus, we imported COVID-19 situations. These are the evidence and we can repeat them again at this time if we do not strengthen health controls. He asked how to reconcile health control with economic development. That's what I'm telling you! The tourism sector, as you defend, is the largest export economic activity in the country, is responsible for around 52 % of the exports of services and about 20 % of total exports, with tourist revenues contributing to the order of 8, 7% of GDP. But you know, and you will agree, that tourism is essentially living in the sense of confidence and security that we have capitalized over the last few years and, in particular, during the first phase of the fight against the virus. Therefore, if we become involved in facilitating policies that allow the virus to be imported, we can seriously put the tourism and restoration sectors at risk. In fact, we must reconcile the economic development of this activity with a strong sense of security and confidence, which can only be achieved through effective health controls to those who arrive. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, I thank you for your intervention, which speaks in wisdom. I repeat what he said above from the rostrum: wisdom is in the World Health Organization, the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Air Transport Association, which recommend to all countries that, upon the arrival of the passengers, in addition to all other bureaucracies and documentation they have to present, also present negative tests to the VOC 19. What we propose is a negative test to COVID-19, which is sensible, in the order of 48 hours prior to arrival. We can debate whether or not 48 hours is enough if all countries have, or not, conditions for testing, because there are countries that may not have the conditions to perform, and find alternative ways to overcome these issues. With regard to wisdom, we are, in fact, based on our main criticisms of the fight against prevention, at our acute stage, and on the recommendations of these main international entities. Mr Maló de Abreu, we generally agree with your statement. With regard to discrimination, these rules apply to all citizens who want to enter our country, regardless of their nationality, including national citizens, of course. [[PAN's applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u226	For the next political statement, the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor, through Mr José Luís Carneiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u227	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The strength of will and the conduct of Portuguese and Portuguese, coupled with the sense of cooperation between all social, economic and political institutions, have been fundamental to ensuring the response of the National Health Service and to halt the spread of the epidemic, to resist fear and to look at the future with confidence, to mitigate the effects of the health crisis on the economic, social and political foundations of the country. Now, it's time to reset the path. After having managed to respond, with responsibility, to the emergency phase, concentrating the political response on public health without neglecting support for the economy and income of workers and families, without which the destruction of the productive structure, employment and living conditions would have been irrecoverable, we now begin the entry into a new phase: that of economic and social stabilization. This is a transitional period until recovery, and this phase is decisive, because it will depend on how we will restart the path of economic growth and social development interrupted at the beginning of the crisis. The economic and social needs will continue to demand the same sense of national commitment from the political parties represented in this Parliament as they have so far. This does not mean abdicating from the democratic scrutiny required by this Parliament but only converging in what is essential in public health, in the survival of businesses, in the safety and dignity of work, in the incomes and living conditions of families, in the protection of the most fragile and in the vitality of our fundamental freedoms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This Economic and Social Stability Programme is the result of the Government's initiative and also the contribution of all the political forces of this Parliament and of many civil society institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if it is true that we have managed, for the time being, to control the expansion of the epidemic and to maintain it at levels that allow for a secure response from our National Health Service, we now have to be able to cope with the economic and social crisis, stabilising it in patterns that enable us to maintain and recover the fabric and territorial capacity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, from the most traditional sectors to the most innovative sectors; maintain employment and incomes; continue to attract foreign direct investment; resume selective public investment and recover private investment and, as it is already assumed in this programme, strengthen the national and local production capacity of innovative and strategic equipment, resulting from business networks, technological centres, research and development, capable of placing Portuguese production on European networks of products and services of higher added value. Given the forecasts for the international economy, it is essential to mobilize ourselves as a national community in the same terms that we have done to combat the epidemic. The macroeconomic scenario that we will have to deal with until the middle of next year is very hard, but we will win. We're convinced of that. The European Commission foresees a breakdown in world economic activity which will be around 3, 5 %. With regard to the euro area, according to the European Commission, there is a potential for a deterioration in economic activity, with GDP to be withdrawn, 7 % in 2020, with a very negative impact on Portugal's trading partners. Unemployment in the euro area should be 9 %, with an increase of 2 %. In the Portuguese economy, after a fall of 2, 3 % in the first quarter, a GDP fall of 6, 9 % is expected. For employment, under the protection measures, as with layoff, a break is expected to occur in the order of 3, 9 %. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, however, the effort that is required of us is not in vain. It has in perspective, from credible sources, the beginning of economic recovery for mid-2021. The figures give us this expectation: there is a forecast of growth to 2021 of 4, 3 %, with an evolution of domestic demand of 3, 8 % and a positive net external demand of 0, 4 %, along with the growth of private consumption of 3, 8 %, the forecast of investment growth in gross fixed capital formation of 6, 1 % and an export growth of 8, 4 %. It is because we see this light at the bottom of the tunnel that, in the view of the Socialist Party, this is still the moment of a broad political convergence and of strong mobilization of national forces to overcome this crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Stability Programme is based on four fundamental axes: First of all, in the maintenance of employment and in the progressive resumption of economic activity, with the promotion of public investments of proximity and selectivity in the health sector, in public school, in housing, in culture, in heritage, in tourism, in the modernization of small trade, betting on the digitization of processes, in transport, in mobility, in the agri-food sector, in the forest and in the environment; Secondly, in social policies, of which investments in the National Health Service stand out, either in infrastructure, or in equipment and human resources; Thirdly, in support of enterprises, where they stand out: the creation of the capitalisation fund for enterprises, to be managed by the Development Bank; the possibility of adjustment of payments on behalf of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) by the end of 2020; the creation of a tax credit for investment within IRC; the guarantee of strengthening public policies, in particular the guarantee of credit lines of EUR 6, 8 million; the facilitation and strengthening of means for credit insurance; the extension of banking moratoriums by 31 March 2021 ; Fourthly, as I could only be, in strengthening the institutional axis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u228	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u229	in this context, we seek the simplification of various administrative procedures and the agility of the public administration itself. The strengthening, agility and support for the training of institutions, the maintenance of support for firms in Layoff, in terms of solvency, capitalisation and export stimulus, the strengthening of public investment in social functions, the protection of workers with weaker working relationships and low-contributory careers are constituent elements of a programme which, in our view, must be supported by all parties in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u230	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u231	I am concluding, Mr. President. With this decision, we will be contributing once again to defend the interests of all Portuguese. Have the courage to vote in favour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u232	Seven Members have signed up to request clarification from Mr José Luís Carneiro, who wishes to respond first to three requests and will then answer two to two. To begin with the first three requests for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate you on bringing to this House an issue of this importance, which we will soon have to discuss, but you would agree that the Socialist Party should ensure that what has been reported is not true, that hundreds of thousands of people have disappeared from the unemployment registers in Portugal. So we are giving the Portuguese a number of unemployment that is no longer real. Today we have been alerted to this and agreed that the Socialist Party would clarify whether it was giving the Portuguese a real number of unemployment or, once again, misleading them with unemployment numbers. But he wanted to say more: a few months ago, we were going to make a recovery in « V». Now, it is a recovery in "V" cox, in which, in fact, only a series of avulsive measures are presented to ease the perception of Portuguese. Payments on behalf of IRC? Oh, my God! Does anyone think that's what's going to solve the Portuguese crisis? Oh, my God! Does anyone know how many companies pay for IRC in Portugal today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u234	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u235	We urgently need to put liquidity in the hands of those who need it. This programme is a set of empty, avulsive measures without a long-term perspective. This government brings us a plan, and it wants us to vote in favour, without telling us where it will cut the expense or where it will recover more tax revenue. Or there is magic or no party that thinks of the future, in Portugal, may vote in favour of this proposal, but it was agreed that the Socialist Party could explain at least what is the magic recipe, beyond the extended hand to Europe, which will bring Portugal to such a « V » recovery, announced by Minister Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u236	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for the second request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Carneiro, we recognize that some of the concerns that the Greens have brought to the government under this programme have been partially heard. We refer, for example, to the need to extend over time measures to support families and also to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We also refer to the need to guarantee income to thousands of people who have been out of support, especially to people linked to arts and culture, and, in general, to all self-employed workers or who, in a precarious labour situation, have been unemployed and have been without access to any support. As for small businesses, we note the intention to maintain the exemption of TSU ( single social rate ) and the suspension of payment on account of IRC. These are measures which, in our view, can contribute to ensuring that small businesses can breathe, but which we still consider to be insufficient. Apparently, there was a proposal from the Greens, for example, to set up a treasury fund so that small businesses could cope with fixed expenditure they had incurred during the period when they had not recorded any revenue. On the other hand, in terms of public investment, we will expect it to reflect in particular on the level of the National Health Service, not only to ensure Portuguese access to health care but also to prevent a possible second wave of the pandemic. We will expect that there will also be investment in public transport and that the plan to remove asbestos in schools is actually a reality. As for the movements in the layoff regime, they are in fact reducing the penalization of those who work, but we believe that what would be right and fair was that workers were not penalized from a wage point of view, not only because people are not working because they are prevented from doing so, for everyone's sake, but also because this solution does not remove the bad part of the possible anti-recessive nature with which the layoff regime is so often presented, since this breakdown of income will reflect on domestic demand, which, in turn, will have consequences from the point of view of the revival of the economy. That is why, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, I would like you to speak on this matter, i.e. whether or not you think it would be of the most fundamental justice that layoff workers would not be penalized from a wage point of view.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u238	For clarifications, Mr Jorge Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Luís Carneiro, the honourable Member has presented us here with the general lines of the Economic and Social Stability Programme, which is not a recovery or growth programme of the economy, is just a repetition of programmes and action lines that are in previous budgets, especially in the Budget which we have adopted here very recently, in February this year, in which you have presented a set of millions and millions on investment — which has led this bank and other Members to say 'Now it is what it is. Now it is going to be' — that they are now re-launched in this stabilization programme. COVID-19 cannot be an excuse for the weaknesses of government or government. The Government is called upon to respond to the difficult time we live so far, but also to apply appropriate measures to Portuguese, workers and businesses. The PSD has already stated in this House that the measures were insufficient — like the credit line, which should have been increased for a long time now to 13 billion — but also that they should have a timely application of the needs. And we must not forget that several speakers — in this House and outside, the business confederations — have warned of the difficulties of the arrival of the money you need, to the companies and to the workers, but also to the public sector. There has also been no reference today, besides vague lines, to tourism, tourism representing 11 % of GDP and 10 % of national employment, and cannot rely on mere guidelines or plans of intent. In particular, what do you want to do with tourism, which is strategic for the relaunch of the economy in Portugal? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u240	In relation to growth, there are estimates. You are perhaps more optimistic or less pessimistic than some international bodies, but in the CFP, at the time of the Stability Programme, they have been omitted. What's going on? Are you convinced that these estimates are going to be achieved or are we going to have problems next, which we are not looking at? Oh, my God! With regard to exports — and to end, Mr President — today companies face internal and external demand problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u241	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u242	I will finish, Mr. President. What are the concrete measures to support exporting companies? You mean me? Is it alone? Oh, my God! It's not enough! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u243	You have the floor to answer, Mr José Luís Carneiro, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by answering the questions put by Mr Ventura, particularly about the hundreds of thousands of unemployed who have disappeared from the registers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. With regard to the January figures, I have a reply to give you, Mr : it is that since we have taken up government functions from 2015 to 2019 we have been creating more than 350 000 jobs and all those who have found new employment opportunities have disappeared from the employment and vocational training registers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As regards unemployment figures, they are public, and, as has already been stated by several authorities, in particular by the Government and the Employment Institute, we have considered more than 100 000 jobs that have been lost with this crisis since the COVID-19 pandemic began. In reply to Mr Luís Ferreira, I would like to say that the measures he has just mentioned are all very relevant and are, as I said, integrated in this Economic and Social Stabilization Programme. Among them, I would like to highlight, on the one hand, the guarantee of income to families and the protection of the most precarious work, particularly with a great fragility in everything that has to do with the contribution career, and on the other, the effort that is known in this Programme with a view to constituting a new social support network for so-called informal workers and intermittent workers, which will not only reach the workers of the cultural sector,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... but also many other workers, who lacked this attention from the public authorities. Investments in the National Health Service are planned in this Programme, as well as investment in public school, in particular in the removal of asbestos, in a planned programme of EUR 60 million, as well as investments in the hiring of about 3000 more employees to strengthen the National Health Service, in an investment that meets the investments made between 2015 and 2019. There is one measure which has not been referred to by the honourable Member and which is worth stressing, because I know it is a very important measure for the ENP, which has to do with the programme for the requalification of more than 5000 km of water lines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u246	... in particular with the replacement of ecosystems, ensuring greater balance and environmental sustainability. It seems to me to be an innovative measure, which has an environmental effect of the greatest importance, particularly for the territories within the agricultural and forestry sectors. As for Mr Jorge Mendes of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to convey to the honourable Member that if you go to pages 12, 13 and 14 of the Journal of the Republic you will find all the measures to support the tourism sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u248	I would also like to convey to you that the measures which have just referred to strengthening credit lines, investment protection, export or credit insurance, on an initiative we want to develop with the European Union to enable credit insurance to protect economic activities also within the national territory, are measures provided for in this Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u249	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u250	...for which also the Social Party of Democrat has made its contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u251	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Luís Carneiro, the PS has decided to bring to this debate the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme presented by the Government. The problem of this programme is that it does not look at the scale of the economic and social crisis that this epidemic has rushed or responds to structural problems that have already been accumulating and that the pandemic has been exposed in a brutal way. We have noted the approach to the proposals which the CFP has been presenting, such as the increase in the proportion of salary paid in layoff situations, which we do not defuse from the initiative that the CFP has developed, and continues to develop, by paying the salaries in full; by supporting management partners or suspending the payment on account, which has already been approved on Friday, on the initiative of the CFP, and which the Government includes in its Programme; by improving the conditions of access to social unemployment benefit and to the CSR (social income for inclusion) or by increasing the amount of family allowance; or by the CFP, by creating a social benefit of €438 for all those who have been without any means of subsistence; and that the Government has welcomed independent workers, leaving out of other atypical working links. Yes, we have seen these approaches, but we are still far from what is necessary to deal with the size of the problems. Structural responses are needed to structural problems that have worsened with the COVID-19, and there is a question that we cannot stop asking. It is that, in a context where restrictions will be prolonged at international level, the internal market needs to be stimulated, which is done only by safeguarding income and not by prolonging cuts in wages. It is necessary to ensure 100 % wages, to prohibit layoffs, to readmission of redeployed workers. It is necessary to channel public resources to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, preventing their failure and ensuring the maintenance of jobs. So, Mr President, I would like to ask the PS if it is available to ensure the full safeguarding of income in the discussion of the supplementary budget or whether it will continue to be in a regime which, even if amended, continues to cut wages, which are already very low? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u253	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u254	Mr President, I believe that there is another request for clarification here as a whole. There were seven and I respond first to a group of three and then to two groups of two.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u255	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. I didn't know I was missing, but I suspected it was, so thank you. Mr José Luís Carneiro, the Member brought here the plan, presented by the Government, of economic stabilization. Mr President, I must start by telling you that I think this plan has very little to be a plan. I would call it a "cut-off blanket", because there is no real recovery plan. And this is, in fact, a fundamental divergence as to what the country should be focused on, which I think is difficult to overcome. Nevertheless, as you speak in a constructive spirit, I would like to leave you here with several doubts/suggests, whose clarification I think would be very useful and to which I am already going to proceed. Point one : reimbursements of IRS ( income tax for natural persons ). The latest data known in 2019 are in the sense that the State has charged more people, which have brought more than EUR 3000 million to the State. Although, however, the retention tables in the source have been reviewed, and since there is no single measure aimed at the overall income of workers, for those who are taxpayers paying IRS, would it not be wise to review the tables of IRS so that everyone could forward a little less money to the state? I would even say that this would be more than sensible, it would be fair, at this difficult time. Point two: layoff simplified. Mr President, I can say that the Layoff has always had very little, but now it will not just cease to be Layoff as it will also become manifestly very complicated. What I ask you is whether it would not have been possible to find a mechanism that would not be divided into two mechanisms, which, in turn, are subdivided into 3, 4, 5, 10, 20 different cases, which will bring a huge complication in specific cases. Point three: payment on account, which applies, yes, to all companies on behalf of an IRC that must or should not be due. What this Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme says is that the limitation of payment on account is up to 50 % or up to 100 %. To make it clear, I'd like to understand if the payment itself disappears or not. And after all, since the impact here is on the treasury and it is not even on the state, why is it not eliminated, once and for all, by 2020, this payment, what was the most basic justice?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u257	Now, yes, to answer, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, would like to answer the questions put by Mr Duarte Alves, telling him that this stabilization plan is not a recovery plan, which will be the third stage of this strategy developed by the government. This is a plan to stabilize the conditions of economic and social life. From that point of view, as a plan to stabilize economic and social conditions, we will not, firstly, be able to untie it from what is the country's development strategy that we have been pursuing and, in this context of the country's development strategy, we must look at how we have come to guarantee economic growth until we enter this truly destructive crisis of many living conditions, not only in Portugal but in Europe and also in the world. Our economy was growing, affecting all variables of economic growth: increasing exports and market diversification; encouraging income policy, and, with income policy, stimulating consumption; promoting national production and production structure, and also stimulating selective public investment, in sectors considered strategic, since the country's critical infrastructures, with a view to positioning the country's economy in international markets, but also in the social functions of the State, that investment in the National Health Service, investment in public school, investment in transport and mobility infrastructures are examples, as well as investment in housing policies. However, it is in order to continue these investment policies that this stability plan is assumed, of course, not exempting the adoption of a recovery policy, which will have much to do with one of the concerns that has been pointed out here in the speeches of some of you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we look at our productive structure and how we manage to reframe it in the structure of opportunities, taking into account not only the European financial instruments but also a structure of opportunities which results from the fact that the European Union wants to gain autonomy in strategic sectors that are vital to us: the agri-food sector, the health sector, the defence sector, among so many other sectors that are strategic and for which Portugal, in terms of an opportunity structure, sees a great possibility for its inclusion in the new international value chains, particularly in Europeans. Let me point out that this programme does not forget to combat structural issues that have much to do with inequalities. It is assumed in this Stability Programme to combat poverty for which everyone will be called, political parties and social development institutions, because it is fighting inequalities, combating poverty, promoting an inclusive public school and creating opportunities that we are looking after a less asymmetric country, more developed and able to compete not through low wages but because it is a more competitive country, because it has innovated in its productive structure, because it has innovated in its conditions of insertion into the global value chain.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u259	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u260	I conclude, Mr. President. Mrs Cecília Meireles, on the questions of the layoff, the proposal presented here is to maintain the layoff system for companies which, by legal determination, continue to be unable to recover their production, and at the same time there are a set of two phases that stimulate the recovery of labour activity, in a distribution of efforts between the State and the companies, also with the objective of protecting workers and their contributions to social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u261	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u262	Mr President, Mr Luís Carneiro, I have listened carefully to your statement and also to the replies you have given to the requests for clarification which have been made to you on the various measures that the Government has submitted, and which Mr Carneiro has also mentioned here, and I would like to ask you three questions: firstly, I would like to insist on the need for a more robust mechanism to guarantee wages without cuts to workers who have their contract suspended under the layoff, which is particularly important for those who earn less. Secondly, and on unemployment benefit, we note that the Government has already accepted a proposal which we made in mid-May, in order to reduce the guarantee period for access to social unemployment benefit by half, but we do not realize why it is not done the same with regard to unemployment benefit itself, because the social unemployment allowance has a resource condition, which means that not everyone can access it. In fact, access to unemployment benefit, for which people have discounted and contributed, should be facilitated and, more importantly, we should now resume the grant period that existed before the Troika was cut, which still exists in unemployment benefit because it has not been revoked. Thirdly, on unprotected workers, that is, those who have not yet been covered by the support that exists, I want to say the following: tomorrow we will discuss an unemployment and cessation allowance for extraordinary activity. The Left Block presented this proposal in mid-May, to reach all people who are not covered by the other support. The government announces that it will double — as we stand for — the minimum amount of support for self-employed and informal workers. This duplication of the minimum amount is progress, but it is still strange and wrong to think that informal workers should be enrolled in the system of self-employed people because most of them will not be self-employed. Therefore, it is a wrong option from the point of view of how the measure was drawn. However, in addition, there are also groups of workers who are not in the protection measures of workers on behalf of others, are not registered in the self-employed scheme and are not informal workers, so they are outside the support provided. I will give you two very concrete examples: should there be or should there be no measures to protect domestic workers, about 40 000, who are discounted for social security but do not have access to unemployment benefit? Nor will they have access to the measure for informal workers, because they are not informal workers, nor will they have access to the measure for independent workers, because they are not included in the self-employed regime. We also have the case of lawyers and applicants, about 30 000, who are discounted for their own funds and who will not have access to any protection measures, because they are not workers on behalf of others who are registered in social security as such, are not registered in the independent regime and are not informal workers. These are, therefore, two groups for which there is no support and tomorrow we will discuss a proposal from the Left Block which would guarantee support for all workers who are not included in the protection mechanisms that exist. So I wonder if the Socialist Party is available to approve this support in order to ensure that no one is really left behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u263	Mr. Deputies, you have exceeded your time but you have concluded. For a question, you have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u264	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, we have listened carefully to what brought about this debate and thank you for the relevance that this theme presents. However, it seems to us, from the outset, and there are some criticisms here that we can not fail to do to this programme that has been presented to us, that it is not only very vague in the field of intentions as it does not realise what may then be the important answers to this social and economic crisis that we are living in. It also falls far short of what is an economic and social recovery programme and is omitted as to how its effective implementation will take place. Therefore, we must not fail to criticize some aspects because, although we understand, and we welcome, that gives an obvious fundamental answer to this economic and social crisis, for example, the commitment to climate change, by opening the hand of a flag which is supposed to be a programme flag of the Socialist Party, because it does not assume the commitment on which environmental counterparties will require polluting companies in return for support that may be allocated. In view of this, we can no longer say that, for the NAP, this is about a policy of almost greenwashing, rather than a serious commitment to all these measures that have been taken so far. More: in the context of economic support, particularly in the field of labour protection, this plan also does not mention exactly how it will respond to about two thirds of Portuguese cultural fabric professionals who continue to expect social security support. You may also be able to bring us here some of the intentions with regard to this, because it does indeed seem to us that there is too much dependence on some activities, on the other hand a weak response to others, and it does not say how it will transform the excessive dependence on tourism, because 8 % of GDP ends up being dependent on tourism. There are also some issues, such as ensuring access to housing, in relation to the number of people, and the area of health and education, in which the commitment of digital transition is not made, for example, in schools. In this regard, however, we must bear in mind the issues of poverty. This is because, indeed, not all students in this context have access to the same conditions and it seems that this is actually out of the plan. We must not forget that there are still these unacceptable inequalities, which persist, in addition to the geographical distribution itself, and so it seems to us that the plan is short in this matter. But more: let us imagine a scenario in which in the future Community funds do not arrive, because we are here to count on something that is not yet approved. Now, Mr President, in this respect, I wonder what you are going to do. Who's gonna pay that bill? Will it be taxpayers or will it be those activities that have to be effectively taxed, in particular polluting activities, in line with the one that has been the European Commission's guidance on polluting activities? In fact, it seems to us that, in this respect, the Programme is incipient, despite the kindness of some of its measures, also failing, by default, not telling which key areas will invest in order to make our country more resilient and sovereign also in terms of national and local production, with less extensive production chains, less aggressive to the environment, thus responding to the various challenges we still face.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u265	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish this set of answers, I would like to begin by suggesting to all of you. Members who sought to read the Economic and Social Stability Programme carefully. I have heard some speeches that have raised doubts as to whether or not they have read this programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u267	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u268	Let us start with two or three questions that are cross-cutting to the set of questions that have been raised. For example, this Programme, which, as I said, is a stabilization programme, follows up on the emergency measures that have been adopted during the crisis period and maintains as priorities all of the measures climate change, digital transition and the fight against inequalities. It is very important to verify the measures referred to there. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Starting with the specific questions put by Mr José Soeiro, I would like to remind you that the measures are set out on page 23 of the Decree-Law. I recall that the measures have the investment forecast and, at the same time, the sources of financing, therefore, it cannot be said that they are general and abstract issues, without compromising the financing conditions, in particular. With regard to social unemployment allowance, we have the automatic extension of benefits by the end of 2020. With regard to RSI, we have changed the reference period for the last three months'remuneration records in order to ensure that the benefit is granted on the basis of the actual conditions of need and poverty for its recipients. These measures, such as combating poverty and strengthening social policies, can also be duly signalled with the careful reading of this same Programme. As regards the measures referred to in relation to housing and digital transition in schools—with a very specific concern with children, adolescents and young people who do not have material conditions, not only from a technological point of view but also with regard to digital content, so that we can guarantee equal opportunities in public school—that is to say that there is already a very close forecast of investment. With regard to the transition to digital school, we are talking about an estimated investment of EUR 400 million in the preparation of the entire school universe so that, from September onwards, as Mr. Prime Minister said, and gradually, all children in our country can have equal access to those who have other conditions of accessibility by economic resources, by financial resources and also by social status. These conditions are laid down in this Stability Programme. In conclusion, I recall that emergency measures have been adopted during the emergency period and measures for the stabilization of the economy and for the whole of the social needs of our country are the Economic and Social Stability Programme. At the start of 2021, we will have to have an economic and social recovery programme for which we will count on the financial instruments of the European Union, and, as I said, seeking to align the country's strategy with the structure of opportunities that will be opened both on the European market and also on the international market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u269	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The turmoil of the crisis and the foam of the days has hidden the fact that Portugal — and indeed, much of the rest of the world — is coming to a fork in its democratic course. We have before us a choice between two paths: on one hand, the path of freedom, on the other, the path of extremism, what Hayek called the way of bondage. It is therefore more important than ever to defend the path of freedom and to block the path to populist charisms. These populist extremisms, whether on the right or on the left, have much in common: they both devalue freedom, open society and liberal democracy; they are both united in the apology of collectivism, of more power for the state, less power for the people; they both have messianic visions of a person or a group of enlightened with simplistic recipes and they both oppose free trade and the market. They are similar in their hatred of freedom and in their attacks on democratic institutions, one on behalf of social justice and the other on behalf of economic security, one on grounds of ethnic prejudice and the other on grounds of class prejudice. They are so similar that it does not scare the electorate from one end to the other. For those who love freedom, especially for the Liberals, it is essential to continue condemning these maneuvers and defending freedom whenever extremists attack it. And freedom is attacked when a left-wing extremist party defends the Chinese communist regime that violates human rights, which imprisons a Muslim minority in concentration camps and blatantly violates Hong Kong's autonomy. Freedom is attacked when a right-wing extremist party wants to limit freedom of expression and censor a social network, in a ridiculous imitation of the American President's positions, which made a picture of the liberal tradition of the Republican Party. Freedom is attacked when another extreme left party closes its eyes to the excesses of the Venezuelan regime or, as it has been days, rejoices with violence and pillage in the United States. Freedom is attacked when another right-wing party cannot condemn the democratic troupe in Hungary and, increasingly, in Poland. The dictatorial regimes these extremists defend have persecuted, arrested and killed millions of people, condemning millions to starve. This does not deserve any kind of romanticism, it deserves condemnation without reservations and without historical whitening. There are no cute dictatorships that killed or tortured a little less than the others. All must be condemned because they all rely on the same idea of subjugation of the individual and his or her freedom to the dictates of facial collectivism. Relativizing authoritarian regimes by any affinity or by electoral calculation is inviting the same relativism on the opposite side and is the broth in which populism grows. The path to freedom to which we must choose must then be clear to all those who defend liberal democracy; all those who reject fascism and racism in front of the front, as well as the excesses of antifascism and chic antiracism of shellfish; all those who defend the market economy who, with all their imperfections, have brought hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and, in the last 70 years, have brought prosperity and peace to the world. In Portugal, who is most unbelievable with the emergence of populism is precisely the one who has the most responsibility in this matter. The PS, for example, which is said to be surprised by populism, is the same one that gave the arm to the extreme left and normalized the populism to the left. It is the same PS that often—and has already done so in votes in this Parliament—it attempts to minimize the atrocities of communism instead of defending freedoms. Having said this, I cannot forget those, few, who, in the PS, fight against this tide that denies the history of the party. For them, here is my recognition for its verticality and courage. In Portugal, the extremes gained strength as the system—in particular the two major parties of the system, with the PS at the head—did not solve the problems it promised to solve. They used billions of euros of taxpayers to save ruinous, public and private businesses; they established a culture of state dependence rather than a culture of merit; they accumulated a gigantic public debt that mortgages the future of the younger; they maintain intact the privileges for political parties, voting against our proposal to eliminate these privileges; and they were once again involved in conflicts of interest, sympathy and corruption. The Liberal Initiative does not compact with this system and does not compact with the stagnation of Portugal for more than 20 years, which is overcome by several countries that can compare with us. We were therefore the first party to present a detailed economic recovery programme with dozens of measures. The Liberal Initiative does not compact with compassion and corruption. We therefore insist on a possible commission to combat corruption, while last year the Government set up a working group with great fanfare for which nothing is known and which, judging by the latest report by GRECO (Group of States Against Corruption) did not do so. The Liberal Initiative does not deal with conflicts of interest involving rulers or appointments such as that of Mário Centeno to Banco de Portugal. We therefore put forward a proposal for the Governor's choice to be made by international competition, as is already the case in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this fork he was talking about at the beginning, in which we are called to choose between the ways of freedom or bondage, democracy or extremism, we know which side we are on. We are and will always be on the side of freedom and democracy, on the side of those who believe that Portugal can be a freer country and those who do not give up fighting for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u271	The Bureau recorded Mr. Deputies Pedro Delgado Alves and João Piinho de Almeida to request clarifications. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u272	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u273	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, his intervention is relevant, at the time when the planet crosses, before the growth of so-called liberal democracies, which, as he said, compress fundamental freedoms, call into question the independence of the judiciary and social communication, transform electoral systems into systems manipulated by the parties themselves, right here in Europe, as well as he mentioned, in the cases of Hungary and Poland. As far as these aspects are concerned, there is no doubt that you are following up on the concerns expressed by the honourable Member, because it is a problem that we have identified at various locations and points around the world. Populism is a virus that is installed in the body of democracy, which takes advantage of its instruments — which guarantee fundamental freedoms — and which seeks to undermine it and corrode it inside. However, there is a point where we necessarily depart from the interpretation and reading it does. We are moving away from it to the extent that he confuses two things: the real threat to democracy with the exchange of arguments that must have room in a democracy. It is by anathematicizing all those who believe that the State has a role to play—because it is the guarantee of solidarity, the protection of the weakest, the redistribution and social rights—that we cannot follow it, because it mixes two things that should not be confused. As the gentlemen who have inspired us since 1820, we are all liberal, in the sense that we all believe in a democracy with space and with construction for all. Where we move away, it is to think that this is enough and that it only builds a strong state, with the ability to protect people and to guarantee their fundamental rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, putting everything in an almost mystical evocation—forgive me! — at this point there is no way to serve. On the contrary, it is the guarantee of social rights that the State promotes that prevents us from staying in bondage and depending on who, economically, dominates us at a certain time. It is the need for intervention and regulation by the State which will continue to be part of the ideological matrix of the Socialist Party and for which, with all respect, Mr Deputies, we take no lessons from the Liberal Initiative. If in the past, in this House, one has tried to confuse what is not confused, trying to put in the same bag distinct historical experiences, trying to paint on the canvass of the same reality facts that are manifestly distinct — ideological options that, in their essence, deny human dignity and others that have also translated the violation of fundamental rights, but that do not have this identity germ that seeks to destroy citizens — that is why we cannot follow all their concerns. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u275	Mr President, I ask you to conclude by way of conclusion because you have exceeded the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u276	I shall conclude by stressing only that, if we look at the best indicators of democracy, Portugal is on the front line of the Freedom House index. In the safety indicators, Portugal always points out in every location as a robust and quality democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u277	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u278	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, brought a very important issue, which is the relationship between combating populism and crises in liberal democracies. There are many people who really like to talk about one of the parts of this discussion completely ignoring the other, especially when it comes to the analysis of their own country and their own reality. Mr President, on five points which are now part of what is happening in Portugal, I would like to ask you whether or not you have a direct relationship with what you have brought us today. First of all, what should be a balance or balance between organs of sovereignty, essential in a democracy, is being challenged by a culture of unanimity in which the mutual praise relates only to its own benefit, questioning what must first be put, which is the service to the people and the balance of the representation of all in a democratic regime? What about the crisis of regulators and supervisors, which allows the Minister of Finance to move directly to the supervisor, who, for example, has the responsibility for the New Bank process, a process which the Minister of Finance has so often criticized and which will now supervise as supervisor? Then, the issue of the press, which does not have enough freedom to maintain its independence from an economic point of view and which needs a public money injection with very questionable criteria. We also have a justice that, as it is slow and late, inspires less and less confidence for more and more citizens in our country. Finally, even in the exceptional rules of an emergency or calamity state there are some who are children and others who are entities. Mr President, is this, or is it not, a swamp in which relativism grows and which allows totalitarianism and totalitarian vision to grow? Calling again what he did at the beginning of his intervention, summoning Hayek and contrasting him on the way to bondage, also summoning Popper, who did not quote directly but referred, are or are not the enemies of society open to gain space with this swamp that is being installed in the country? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u280	To reply, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u281	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put. First of all, with regard to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves' questions, it is true that we have common concerns. But, Mr President, the common concerns are not enough to agree on a common path. When you point out what I did not say in this case, Mr President, it may have been more time for you to be there. — the danger of excessive state dependence on individual freedoms when using this example shows that it has not been sufficiently attentive to the rest of what I wanted to say, in particular to the relativisation that the role of the PS has played in recent years in making the distinction that it has once again tried to make between types of dictatorships, some worse and others better. That is not how it works, Mr President, because they are all subjects of individual freedom and must be criticised equally. Then we can discuss the degree of atrocities that was behind it. But let me also tell you that it is not only in minimizing the damage caused by dictatorships that are a little bit more cute or with greater affinity to us. It is seen when the PS defended a vote that was not in favour of the equalization of Nazism and communism. Review the reading of this vote and the speech at that time to see the degree of relativization that is already introduced, giving action that the opposite side also does, as I said in my intervention. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, I am grateful for the question he raises and, yes, I agree very much with many of the things he refers to as examples of what he has just called a « swamp ». I add an element to the question of sovereignty bodies, which has to do with justice and how it often begins to be confused and how there is almost deliberate confusion with the separation of powers, between executive power and judicial power, which have occupied us in this Chamber at the beginning of the year, which is not yet resolved because we have not yet heard the Attorney-General of the Republic in relation to that opinion which, as it is recalled, has called to mind, called into question the way in which guidelines were given to conduct the proceedings. Regarding the rest, yes: in the regulators, in the press, in the state of emergency itself, not only in the way it was decreed but in the ease with which the Portuguese accepted a set of limitations. Unanimism is not only a way of avoiding confrontation between political forces and contradiction, it is also a way of habitualizing people to feel badly when they disagree, a way of diminishing critical sense, a way of reducing the strength of each one of us, the strength that each individual has to change society around him and to change society as a whole, and that is why we have to fight. The more relativized the problems that you already feel today, the harder it will be to return to that dynamism and to that energy in the future. So we can't be pleased. This House has the responsibility to look at reality, not to be deluded by the difficult circumstances of the present and to think about the future. And, in that future, we all have responsibility, starting with those who have the most votes in this House, starting with the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u282	For a political statement, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs. Isabel Moreira, I thought she was leaving as soon as we needed you... so I hope you will stay to the end. My Dear John Cotrim de Figueiredo, today I was sure that I already had, that very little separates you, really. It is this cute speech that has led Portuguese and Portuguese to believe, increasingly, that arriving is the only political force that tells the truths as they are to be said. Today it became clear that there is the true right and there is the other right, a right that is afraid of being on the right. Because we don't have and we've been here on April 25, saying that we need another one, that this one no longer gives. Structural racism is a ghost that does not exist in Portugal, it is a ghost that wants to bring us to discuss topics or to hide others, as was the case with the New Bank or with several cases of corruption that we have known in recent weeks. How can we cry the death of George Floyd, in the United States, and completely ignore a dead são-tomese here right next door in the Sixth? How do we look at our compatriots and say « where is SOS Racism when we need it most »? It's silent, because, actually, it doesn't believe it exists. But today all the canons were surprised! We agreed with a megasound of the TSF to find out the following: does it or does it not require a major plan to combat racism in Portugal? I almost wanted to jump to the question and say « of course it does», but 80 % of the Portuguese said no. « Malandros, racists! », spread throughout the country, in each district, to vote as if there were no tomorrow, to say that a shame is to continue to believe in ghosts that do not exist and to throw them to the face of the Portuguese just to make them believe that self-imposed subsidiarity and marginality can be a solution for Portugal. It's not, it's not gonna be and sooner or later it's gonna be over! But:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u284	No, no! That's enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u285	...we had yesterday, as we all saw, what we had. Offensive to the security forces, «the devil wears heavy clothes», «good police is dead police»... Today, the responsible for SOS Racism came to say that if they come after him criminally it is racial and social discrimination. Country shame, in which hate is encouraged to the police, the magistrates, those who work in the front line and it is said to them "Be careful! That's racial discrimination! », such a cute thing that they like to talk about. It won't be past and sooner or later it will fall! When we watch the attempt to illegalize the Arrival and the Abolition—keep trying! — one Member said yesterday 'they and they, the whites, are practicing true racism, not blacks and blacks, they are them and they are! We white people practice racism, but with this, no one has risen. She is a Color Member, she is a Member known for her anti-racist struggle, so it is not worth creating waves, it is better to turn our focus always to the same. It was said yesterday, in the sight of all and of all, before the passivity of this House and of this House. When we say that there is a problem of subsidiarity in the Gypsy community, when we say that there are marriages of minors that the courts should not allow or when we say that there are girls withdrawn from school, systematically, 45 years ago, we are racist and extremist. When André Ventura says that... [[Who's André Ventura?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u286	... a specific plan is needed for the Gypsy community, he is racist, but when the author of Azambuja, of the Socialist Party, says the same, Antonio Costa says it is necessary to put the words in its context. The author of Moura says that the camp will be isolated and accompanied in permanence by the GNR and that all food goods will be delivered by chamber officials, but if it were André Ventura to say it, my God, where this country would have fallen on that day. So, no, as an author of the Socialist Party, there is no problem anymore. This was the stigma we created in Portugal! No, it was not the stigma of almost populism and the permanent phantom of extremism and populism, which today is all that does not like the system installed. It's just the words started to count! When André Ventura said that what had happened to the footballer Marega was not a case of racism, Mother of Heaven! When it was the President of the Football Club of Porto himself to say that "it wasn't racism, it was stupid", it was all right, there was no problem. We must end this non-existent ghost, we must put the fight where it has to be done, we must give voice to the common Portuguese, to those who feel that they have been paying taxes to sustain this Republic for many years, without any return and always to them. We are the country of the poor, where there are those who do not want to do anything at all and always have the system ready to give them and deliver them everything, where there are some who are permanently cornered by work and others who live from the work of others. This is the truth that it is difficult to hear, but it is the truth that Portugal will have to hear more and more. [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]] Yes, Mrs. Member, I'm speaking loudly! It is the voice of the Portuguese out there that wants to echo, once it is, in this House. Only this year, in the first three months, 203 cops were assaulted. Where was the Left Block? Where was the Socialist Party? Where was the Liberal Initiative? They weren't! Where was SOS Racism? I wasn't! Only this year, to be known, were several murders in the hands of people of colour, as we recall, for example, of Pedro Fonseca. Who said a word for him? Nobody! Then it was no longer racism, it was nothing anymore, it was the same story as ever.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u287	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u288	I will finish, Mr. President. Who doesn't remember the neighborhood surrounded by the Waves, with police surrounded and assaulted, to whom no one spoke? Oh, my God! Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will end with a sentence that may come to be considered a racist phrase, the most racist ever said in here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u289	So it is best not to say, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u290	... but I challenge you to show me the opposite: tell me a district, repeat, a district, where there are no problems with the Roma community.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u291	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u292	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, what we have just heard is a terrible irresponsibility. And it is irresponsible precisely because racism kills, sir! The racism and indifference or inflamed speech that you bring to this House, and with which you will probably also provide us in your answer, kill! And we can't compact with that! It is not for you to come here to speak louder, to open your arms or to say, to whom you hear us out there, that comes to bring the Portuguese voice to the House that is becoming right. It is because of the color of the skin, either because of the functions that people can perform, or because of what it is. It is not only acceptable for a 21st-century society to tolerate discrimination based on the color of the skin, nor is it justified to be a response of violence or intolerance, particularly against the forces of authority. Mr. Deputies, that's enough, pass the redundancy, from Here! In fact, when you come here to make a speech that does not take account of the people who have died in the hands of racism and intolerance, you forget something: 'eye for eye' and the world will end blind! Violence is not fought with violence or intolerance, it is fought with strategies and proposals that we have not yet seen bring it to this House of the Republic. That is why the question I leave you with, Mr President, because it points the finger to this whole House of Democracy, which is not about intolerance, but, yes, about respect, is this: what answers do you have to offer? We have not heard him talk about it yet, and we would like him, once and for all, to bring serious answers, for example, to combat racism, to combat the intolerance that persists in our society. As far as this is concerned, Mr President, we have not heard anything yet, we are still waiting, and most likely you will have nothing to offer. The only thing you have to offer are easy speeches, speeches that grab populism, instead of a serious answer to a very serious problem, because, and I end up as I started, Mr President, racism kills! [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u293	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Catarina Marcelino, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have listened carefully to Mr André Ventura, in his style of screams, of excitement, but his style is, above all, radical and his speech is, above all, extremist. It is therefore regrettable that, in this Parliament — which defends equality, because it is a constitutional principle, and which defends the common good — the honourable Member is spreading and speaking of hatred and saying that there are Portuguese first and second. You know, honourable Member, the fight against racism is a fight for all, it is a fight for human rights. And yes, Mr President, we are against the death of all people who lose their lives in a crime situation, in a situation of inequality, who are victims of violence. We are against all these deaths, we are not like you, which is only against the deaths of some. This is deeply regrettable in a democratic society! What I think, honourable Member, is that he never says so, but the honourable Member has problems with the democratic system. Mr. Deputies speaks of a 4. the Republic, as I've heard it speak, and I'd like you one day to explain here what you mean by that,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because what you want is a country that excludes and what we all want is a country that includes. Therefore, Mr President, take your position. As for the posters against the police, Mr Deputies, no one agrees with those posters, but a tree does not make the forest and therefore does not want to divert a demonstration that has had as many Portuguese and Portuguese as you say, because the people there were Portuguese and Portuguese, fighting for a greater cause, fighting for those who feel discrimination, every day in their skin and their lives. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u295	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u296	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member is a professor of law, the honourable Member is a lawyer and therefore I would like to ask you if you do not know Article 13. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u297	To reply, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u298	Mr. President, I was counting on Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira to make this call... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u299	It was too bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u300	It's fetish!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u301	...will stay for another moment. The answer may soon come from an opinion paper. Since I don't like running away from questions, I'm going to answer all the clear questions that have been put to me. [[PS protests.]] Calm down! It's all very nervous! True, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, racism kills. But it also kills when we stop looking to the other side and forget that there are thousands of people in the front line against this, against the fight, for example, to COVID and also for our safety, and that every day they die at the hands of minorities. The honourable Member then says « Intolerance also kills». Well, kill! She exists too! And it is not to pretend that there is structural racism in most Portuguese people, because they have had a colonial past, which will solve the problem, that is to say that they all have to be treated equally. There can't be a neighborhood in Portugal, mostly attended by the Roma ethnic group, where the police don't come in! And I was a councilman in a chamber where that happened, Mrs. Member, and...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u302	Run!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u303	...the police didn't get in there or only came in with very high-strength measures. You think that's fair? That also kills, Mrs. Deputy! And not seeing this is closing your eyes to the Portuguese people who pay their taxes today. Mrs Catarina Marcelino, regarding such an extremist, lamentable speech, we know that the Socialist Party is tolerating the difference, but, Mrs Deputy, you know something, I have already said this to your colleague — today, I have an obsession with Mrs Isabel Moreira —... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u304	...and I'm going to say it again, arriving came to stay. The honourable Member can do whatever she wants, she can embrace and say that we are this and that but we're here to stay. And you know why? The honourable Member asked me if I knew Article 13. that of the Constitution and I know, is the article of equality. You know what it's like to treat you the same way? It is not to treat anyone differently because it is a minority,... [[Protests by PS Deputy Catarina Marcelino.]] ...for being the poor of April, for being those who have been living for years from our taxes and you ignore. The whole country cries out and you prefer not to see. That is why what happens in the Alentejo, in the Ribatejo, in the suburbs of Lisbon, in the suburbs of Porto. Your autoarchs, like Azambuja's and Moura's... do you want more names? They want me to tell you more names, to forget the hypocrisy that it is to come here to say one thing and go to the authorities to say another, why do they need votes? Oh, my God! Then populism doesn't matter anymore? Oh, my God! Assumam! We have a problem with minorities in Portugal! Pretending that there is nothing is the worst thing for one day to replace us here in the system. [[Protests by PS Deputy Catarina Marcelino.]] He asked me about that 4th. the Republic, but don't worry, Mrs Deputy, because it's neither a third Reich nor anything like it. Do you know what this Republic is? It is a Republic where there are only 100 Members, not to go here 230 ; it is a Republic where there is less than 50 % tax burden than we now have; it is a Republic that does not have a ghost president, but one that effectively decides because it is elected by the majority of Portuguese. And you know what, Mrs. Member? I am almost sure that, if we did a survey to the Portuguese, they would even agree with this, but, of course, the Socialist Party would immediately say "Well, there are also aspects with which we can agree".
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u305	You would like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u306	What I'd like to see here was a Socialist Party defending what it stands for in the authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u307	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u308	...and that I wouldn't be fooling the Portuguese, with cute speeches,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u309	Cute is your rabbit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u310	... pretty, which then results only in one thing: the increase of racism and intolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the period of political declarations. Let us now proceed to the debate on Petition No 639 / XIII / 4. a ( Common Front of Public Administration Unions ) — They request the adoption of measures to ensure the proportionality of the levels of the single remuneration table, together with Resolution Projects Nos 481 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government review the single remuneration table with a view to ensuring proportionality levels and 489 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the urgent negotiation of the single remuneration table of the Public Administration with a view to ensuring its proportionality. To present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and trade union representatives of the Common Front of the Public Administration Unions who are here and who have brought us a problem of wage injustice that exists today in the Public Administration. It is true that the increase in the minimum wage and the basic salary of public servants was important to combat a reality that exists in Portugal, particularly among those who work and do not receive enough to escape poverty and low wages in the Public Administration, and that it is outraged. But these increases did not correct all the injustices that prevent other objectives, both in the Public Administration and in the economy, in order to ensure that the rise of these lower wages continues and leads to the general rise of wages in Portugal. These injustices underlying the single remuneration table ( TRU ) and the public administration's wage policy have to do with virtual and residual positions that have to be resolved fairly in some careers that have not yet been consolidated. On the other hand, we have the subtraction of points. From Decree-Law No. 29 / 2019, anyone who has had a salary increase due to the basic increase in the remuneration of the Public Administration loses the points for which he worked and which result from his performance assessment, and these are then reduced to zero. This means that a worker with 10 years of Public Administration, seeing his basic salary increased, loses the points for which he worked and may be 20 years without receiving further appreciation through progression and therefore can be 20 years in the same remuneration position as a worker who has just arrived at the Public Administration. These workers are, not least, the operational assistants to whom we so much appreciate and to whom we need to do so much justice. They are those who have been in hospitals, every day, risking their lives for our safety and also those who have risked to keep our streets clean. These are the workers who earn less in the Public Administration and deserve this appreciation. The other factor leading to this injustice is the lack of proportionality in the single pay table. With the rise in lower levels, career entry is now due to the fifth pay position, making the wage difference between an operational assistant, at the beginning of the career, and a technical assistant, at the beginning of the career, very small. This proportionality means, in fact, that the career of the Public Administration is not valuing the experience, neither the differentiation, nor the specialization, even academic, of workers. We therefore propose that, in a negotiating process, the Government be able to conduct this negotiation to correct these inequalities, so that the remuneration table is reviewed for the introduction of proportionality in careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u313	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u314	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe this is a national plan of justice to value the workers of the Public Administration, but it is also a national plan for the benefit of our economy, for the benefit of public services. An economy with a strong and valued public administration always works better. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u315	You now have the floor to present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Vera Silver.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the more than 25 000 subscribers to the petition we are discussing today and the Common Front that has stimulated it. We also welcome all employees of the Public Administration who, despite more than a decade of freezing their careers, without fair wage recovery, continue to ensure the functioning of public services and the realization of the social functions of the State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intervention of the CFP made it possible to ensure in 2018 the defrosting of careers and progress in the Public Administration. These workers finally saw a piece of light at the bottom of the tunnel. Subsequent wage updates, with changes in the remuneration base and the most recent increase of 0, 3 %, in addition to clearly insufficient, destroyed the initial proportionality of the TRU to which the Government would be bound and obliged in accordance with Article 147. that of the Law of Labour in Public Functions, and that has not been fulfilled. To this reality joins the loss of points. Even in the years of freezing these workers were evaluated, and they were assigned qualitative references and the corresponding points. It should be remembered that the Government has determined the loss of points and their qualitative terms. This situation, in addition to unfair, called into question the rights acquired and the interests of these workers. It is fair to demand the maintenance of the assigned points, and they must count for future changes in the remuneration position. The PCP, in addition to having submitted a proposal in the last Budget, has already submitted a bill for the correction of this injustice. The claim to maintain the proportionality of the TRU is fair and should be negotiated with trade union organisations in a timely and urgent manner, as proposed by the CFP in the present draft resolution. The remuneration issues of the employees of the Public Administration, who have concrete examples in this petition, demonstrate the fairness and need for a general and significant increase in wages as a matter of national emergency, as well as the increase of the national minimum wage for the €850, as proposed by the CFP. It is also necessary to enhance careers and professions and to negotiate with their trade unions with a view to replacing, creating and valuing the careers of these workers, as the CFP has already proposed in the last Budget. Public administration workers have been very praised in recent times, because they have guaranteed the public services of our country, even in such an adverse context as we live. Its appreciation cannot remain in the words, and it must be reflected in its wage valuation, its right to progress, its right to career and its careers. Public administration workers can count, as they have always counted on the CFP, on their initiative and intervention to give voice to their righteous struggles and demands. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u317	The next intervention is for Mrs Germana Rocha, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall, of course, begin by congratulating the Common Front of the Public Administration Trade Unions and the thousands of subscribers to this petition, which demonstrates the dissatisfaction of the employees of the Public Administration. And so I confess, I have even come to think that today we would hear in this debate by the left parties an apology to these workers, because what is being discussed here is precisely legislation approved in 2019 by the socialist government, supported by the left parties. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] What demonstrates that saying bad is easy, doing good is that it's difficult. And even more difficult it becomes, when it governs quickly to win elections or to think about political survival and not in the workers as a whole. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u319	Because the increase in basic remuneration and lower income is very important, other workers cannot be forgotten and serious injustices can be created in the single pay table, which resulted in an average wage closer and closer to the minimum wage, removing the due proportion between the different levels and categories. To value public administration workers is not to set wage increases that are automatically swallowed by the IRS, it is not to have a performance assessment system that does not meet its objectives. To value the workers and the work they do is not to give with one hand and take the other, increasing the basic remuneration, but subtracting points in the progression of careers. It is not to fill your mouth with the reinstatement of income, in an attempt to make you forget that whoever frozen the Public Administration's careers was a socialist government, led by José Socrates in 2010. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u320	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u321	This soon after having given the greatest increase in memory, to win the elections in 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u322	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u323	Valuing these workers, Mrs. Members, it is to comply with the rules and deadlines of PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), it is to promptly reimburse workers of their health expenses and of the money retained in IRS, above all at a time of pandemic, in which so much lack is done to these families. To value these workers is to define a remuneration table that takes into account their skills, training, functions and responsibilities, fulfilling the principles of equity and justice and respect for seniority in careers. Valuing the workers is not promising everything to everyone and giving nothing to anyone, because it is of no use that we treat the tree if we abandon the forest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u324	You now have the floor on behalf of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by greeting the Common Front and all those who have signed the petition we are discussing today. What is at stake is the respect the government must have for the civil service workers. The government that said it would turn the page of austerity is the same as it has done so little to dignify these workers. We must not forget that between 2009 and 2019 the purchasing power of workers decreased by more than 7 % and that the increase in the basic remuneration of public service did not accompany it compensatoryly. We must also not forget that changes have been made that have called into question the proportionality of the single remuneration table. For example, by shortening the distance between the value of the pay base and the admission value in the career of technical assistant, the distance and proportionality between pay levels and the various categories and careers were reduced. This causes, in practice today, even though there is a formal differentiation in the law, operational assistants with 10 or 15 years of career gain the same as a newly admitted operational assistant. This does not mean that new professionals should not take this value, that is to say, for the most experienced, it is a consolidation of injustice and a distortion of the logic of career progression provided for in the law. Another example, for which we have recorded concerns, is the shortening of the difference in the level of remuneration between the category of operational assistant and the category of technical assistant. Therefore, if the remuneration table is not reformulated, after having ended this progression logic, in the case of operational assistants, there is a risk of ending the difference between categories as well. It is therefore more than fair to follow these demands of the Common Front and the draft resolutions that seek to open the negotiating process. The Government has a duty to revisit the single pay table, also in order to dignify the working conditions and wages of these professionals. Although they are of the worst payments from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), these professionals — for example, health professionals and essential services — have in fact been real anonymous heroes in caring for our country. As we have said, palms are important, but the most important is to consolidate them in the Reformary Budget and in the State Budget for 2021. From now on, and to make it clear, we mean that we do not accept that, when it comes to valuing public service workers, we are told that nothing can be done because the rumbe would be inappropriate. On this issue, the NAP has already come up with a number of solutions for the government to be able to match thousands of euros either by combating corruption or by ending environmentally perverse subsidies. In conclusion, we say that we cannot hear a no, after we hear Minister Siza Vieira say that companies should prepare themselves, because the country has never received so much money. Business support? Of course! But there can be no two pesos and two measures: the Public Administration and State officials cannot stay behind. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u326	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by congratulating the more than 25 000 petitioners who present this petition, for the relevance of all points, for the progressive nature of the career, for proportionality at the levels of the single pay table. The petition is from the Common Front of Public Administration Unions, which are, in fact, in defending their legitimate interests. There is, however, a general principle that I would like to remember, while we are discussing this: there is only one country. When we say this and we discuss this petition, which has to do with legitimate aspirations of public service workers, we are in fact discussing the future and the remuneration of several public administration workers who, in many cases, have risked and have been working during the pandemic. This is the case for health professionals or, for example, cleaning workers. But it is also the case of some workers who work in private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ) or who work in cleaning services that are not public, are private. Just as there are workers in public service who, during the pandemic, were at home, there were workers in the country outside, in factories and shops in the private sector, who were at home. With this I mean something as simple as: there is only one country. What should distinguish workers is not the fact that they are in public or private service, what should distinguish them is their work, their merit and their value. It is in the light of this principle that I believe this petition must be examined, because the truth is that we cannot turn off what we are analyzing here from the period in which we are living. During the period we are living, we have about 800 000 workers who are in layoff and that means they are receiving about two thirds of their salary. In fact, when it was said here that "no worker can stay behind and it seems that there is a lot of money from Europe", the workers who stayed behind, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was these workers. Why? Because what this Parliament understood and what the government said was that there was no money, there were not enough public resources for the maintenance of its work and its employment to be able to pay the whole salary. Therefore, when we analyze other measures and other fair and legitimate aspirations, we also have to analyze them in the light of what there were no resources. I think it was fair and legitimate, the aspiration of these workers to receive all their wages. Therefore, what distinguishes workers should not be in the public or be in private, it should be the situation in which they are. This said, and in the light of this principle, that no one has yet seen mention, but which I consider fundamental and essential, and of the situation in which we live, I believe that this petition must be examined. Justice must be analyzed of what it proposes, because what petitioners say is true: there was an update of the minimum threshold, which went to 635, 07 €, and still well, only that means that there are many workers who have stopped being able to distinguish themselves. So here is an aspiration for relative justice among public administration workers with which we agree. We believe that it must be interpreted in the light of justice, among all workers, whether they are public or private. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u328	I now give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, if anyone has to apologize is the PSD who, in four or five years of government, kept the careers frozen in the employees of the Public Administration. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u330	“ Keep Your Minds Fixed on the Things Above ”! He didn't freeze them!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u331	So if we want to value the workers, we have to put the PSD in the opposition, because it is when you remember the workers! When you are in the government you forget about the workers and keep the career freeze. But I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, to welcome the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are discussing, which naturally extends to the Common Front of Public Administration Trade Unions, who have taken the initiative to make use of this important instrument of our democracy, which we want to participate in: petition. in this case, this is a petition whereby measures are required to ensure the proportionality of the levels of the single remuneration table. The first note that the Greens want to leave is that they fully monitor the aims and objectives of the petitioners, because, in fact, as all, we are certainly reminded, in view of the new parliamentary framework out of the 2015 legislative elections, it was possible to promote some progress with a view to the materialization of the defrosion of careers and progress for public administration workers — as it is known, an absolutely frozen decade, including during the time of the PSD Government / CDS-PP — first, through the recognition of this right through the State Budget for 2018 and subsequently with the Decree-Law No. 29 / 2019, which came to update the Public Administration's remuneration base for the 635, 07 €, which was the value corresponding to 4. the remuneration position. It follows that this solution found by the Government not only proved insufficient, but also distorted the original proportionality of the single remuneration table itself, proportionality to which the Government was even bound by Law No 35 / 2014. More recently, through Decree-Law No. 10 - B / 2020, the Government came to increase the single remuneration base corresponding to 10 years for remuneration between €635, €07 and €683, €13, and the increase of 0, 3% for the remaining remunerations. However, these wage increases are absolutely insufficient, especially if we take into account that public administration workers have been a decade without knowing any increase. In addition, these slight wage increases have also increased the problems around the progressive nature of the single pay table. In fact, this measure continued to distance the short distance between the basic remuneration value and the admission value in the career of technical assistant, and it also reduced the distance and weakened the proportionality between the pay levels and the various categories and careers. The Greens therefore consider it imperative that the Government immediately begin to develop a negotiation process with the public administration's workers'organisations with a view to reviewing the single remuneration table in order to ensure the proportionality of this remuneration table. We therefore follow the concerns of the petitioners, as well as the legislative initiatives which are also under discussion and which, in our view, seek to respond to the purposes of this petition, and which, after hearing what I have heard, will certainly have the support of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u332	The last recorded speaker to speak on this point is Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Maria Germana Rocha, you, like me, are civil servant. You know, as I know, what happened in public service during your government. You know, for sure, and you saw what happened to the operational assistants, technical assistants and senior technicians. The reduction of income was your responsibility! The ban on public service, as a result of changing the age of access to reform, was your responsibility! [[PSD protests.]] As for the precariousness, Mrs Deputy, it was with Antonio Guterres and now with Antonio Costa that we re-regulated the precarious links of public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[What about Socrates?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u334	Having said this, Mr President, my first words are to greet all civil servants of general careers who, in time of pandemic, have maintained and ensured public services. They are invisible faces and often forgotten when we thank the work produced in the necessary public services in our country. Today we analyze the petition of the Common Front of Public Administration Trade Unions. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes all petitioners — 26 000! There are 26 000 petitioners who tell us that the public administration's appreciation is an urgent matter. Two draft resolutions are attached to this petition. It is therefore important to begin by stating clearly that the Government, in its Programme, states that the debate about the careers of the Public Administration is inevitable. To implement human resources management policies, to think about the present, focusing on the future, plan recruitment according to the effective needs of each area of Public Administration and value wages and technical careers is our way. We are aware of the need to promote the correction of the inequalities that we know exist, but this amendment will respect the budgetary responsibility, the negotiations that are always necessary with the trade union structures and the existing legal system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore state that the motivation of employees is the guarantee of good services and this, of course, is related to the capacity that the State has to recognize. The PS Parliamentary Group closely accompanies these concerns and has transmitted and expressed them to the union structures with which it meets. We finish by recalling that the time for negotiations is the time of the government and they begin today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u335	We are thus finishing this debate and we are going to move to the third point of our order of business, which is from the assessment of Petition No 609 / XIII / 4. a ( Ana Raquel Oliveira Lima et al.) — They request the regulation of the profession of Portuguese Gesual Interpreter, together with the Resolution Project Nos 412 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By regulation of the profession of Portuguese Gestive Interpreter, and 422 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Measures to achieve the rights of deaf persons and to enhance the profession of Portuguese gestal interpreter, and, in general, Bill No 402 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Amends Law No 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions for access and exercise of the exercise of the performance of the performance interpreter activity. To submit Bill No. 402 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u336	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the petitioners and the petitioners who have requested us to put an end to a omission of more than 20 years in the regulation of the Portuguese Gestive Interpreter profession. The person who appears in a small window on the left side on the screen of those who follow us through television is who allows what we say to reach many thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese. Without the work of this person, without the work of Portuguese gestal interpreters and interpreters, these thousands of people would be deprived to communicate with health professionals, to understand what their teachers say or to be part of the community that participates in a conference or is viewer of a telejournal. The work of Portuguese gestal interpreters and interpreters is an essential support for the practical exercise of the rights of deaf people and it is in this perspective that we have a duty to value this profession in law. They spent 21 years on their legal acceptance in Law No. 89 / 99 which was a founding element of the recognition of the importance of the social function of Portuguese gestal interpreters. But the passing of time made it necessary to adjust the content of this legal device and made it imperative to regulate access to this profession that has never been done. This imbalance and omission have allowed the performance of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters to be made, largely, in a precarious setting, without recognizing the specificity of the functions concerned, without an appropriate working time, ignoring known requirements for the prevention of occupational diseases, without the prospect of a professional career and without the affirmation of fundamental social rights. It is to meet these requirements that the Left Block presents Bill No. 402 / XIV / 1. a. Our first concern is to adapt the contents of the 1999 law to current conditions. To this end, we propose an update of the legal definition of Portuguese gestal interpreter, including its performance by deaf professionals, an update of the list of functions performed by the Portuguese gestual interpreter and the establishment of the title of a bachelor's degree, with a minimum duration of 3 years, in the area of translation and interpretation of Portuguese gestual language as an essential requirement for access to the profession. The Government is responsible for regulating the Portuguese Gestive Interpreter's career, and the Left Block proposes that this regulation, which should be adopted within 60 days, should include clarifying the working and ethical conditions of the activities of these professionals. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a debate about our smaller task as legislators. They are the rights of thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese who are concerned with the work of Portuguese gestal interpreters and interpreters. It is not possible to pretend for longer that these professionals, who support the realization of these rights, do so by altruism. They are workers, highly specialized workers and it is their dignity of workers that the law has to recognize. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u337	To present draft resolution No 412 / XIV / 1. a, of the NAP, has the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 petitioners who have applied for regulation of the Portuguese Gestive Interpreter profession for bringing this issue to debate, but I also want to thank the work and the high public service that they provide to our entire society on a daily basis. Gestal-language interpreters have, in fact, an essential role to play, promoting the inclusion and participation of deaf people and ensuring their access to essential services. In spite of this, these professionals have often come to see themselves in a contractual situation with unstable bond, since they have been hired as independent workers, not contemplating the legislation the changes that over the years have been operating in the profession and in the training of these professionals, thus creating various inequalities and vulnerabilities. In fact, Law No 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defined the conditions for access and exercise of the activity of Portuguese gestal interpreter — the law is almost 21 years old — was adopted in a context where the Portuguese gestal language still did not enjoy the essential public recognition it has today. It also had a very small number of translators and interpreters in view of the number of graduates today and the deaf community itself did not, unfortunately, yet have the full perception of the support that can and, above all, have to have with these professionals. After more than 20 years of promulgation of this diploma, successive governments have not yet regulated the process of access to this profession, which we regret, since they contribute to the precarious work of these professionals. In addition, Article 8. this law, referring to the transition period, is established that people who frequent, with use, the higher course of interpreter of Portuguese Gestive Language. However, it adds this same diploma that those who confirm certification obtained on a date prior to the entry into force of the Law will also continue to have access to the profession. It turns out that the training of Portuguese Gestive Interpreter before the entry into force of the Law was of professional character and was later considered a bachelor in higher education and, under the Bologna process, a graduate. Thus, we believe that a term should be established for this transition period, given that the study plan that is currently in force is different from that practiced almost two decades ago and that it may no longer correspond to the current needs of the profession. Finally, we recall that the 2020 State Budget, on a proposal from the NAP, ensured the strengthening of working conditions of Portuguese gestal interpreters, establishing that, in 2020, the Government should review Law No 89 / 99, defining the conditions for access and exercise of the activity of gestal-language interpreters, regulating the process of access to the profession, with the consultation of the integrative committee of elements of the representative associations of the deaf community and also of the gestal-language interpreters, and creating a fellowship of hours per school year, not less than 12 hours / year, to be used, for example, by families with deaf parents with children of school age. In addition to these measures we have also asked for the strengthening of the number of gestal-language interpreters in the National Health Service because of the importance of it. With this project, we intend to comply with the provisions of the 2020 State Budget Act, which is achieved through this regulation, with a view to dynamizing, facilitating and ignifying the exercise of this profession and promoting the recruitment of their services, thus improving access to the conditions of the profession's exercise, recognizing and valuing the important work carried out by these professionals. I end by thanking all Portuguese Gestal interpreters once again for the public service they provide to all of us with the exercise of their profession, building a society, no doubt more inclusive. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u339	To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greets the petitioners, who request the regulation of the profession of Portuguese-speaking interpreters. The Portuguese gestual language must be recognized and dignified by its real status as the first language of the deaf community. The access of deaf people to all public services depends on a Portuguese gestal interpreter, either in family planning consultations or in delivery preparation classes, either in a consultation of the IPO (English Institute of Oncology ) or until the deaf person is subjected to surgery. Not always this support, which is a right, is safeguarded, because, once again, those who can pay the service of an interpreter will have all the conditions to keep themselves informed and integrated in society; those who cannot pay these services, keep up with the effort that family support is giving and with the complacency of them. Even if difficulties remain, the deaf person already has access to compulsory education guaranteed. However, the guarantee of interpreters in higher education is dependent on the institutions, being related to situations of precariousness among the interpreters, so necessary for the integration and success of the student. Despite the evolution that we have witnessed, the reality shows that there is still a shortage of gestual-language interpreters in public services, as well as several issues to be resolved, especially with regard to the fulfilment of the rights of deaf people and the appreciation of the career of translator and interpreter. The accessibility of deaf people to public services is still not fully guaranteed, which means that there are enormous barriers to communication, and this constitutes a serious obstacle to access to services. It is essential to hire Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for public services, as well as to take the necessary steps to include the Portuguese gestal-language interpreter profession in the database supporting the inclusion of data relating to higher-level qualifications. It is essential to review Law No. 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions of access and exercise of the activity of gestal-language interpreter, which is about 20 years old and was approved in a context where this language did not have the essential public recognition, the number of translators and interpreters was reduced to the present and the deaf community itself did not have the perception, that it has in our days, of the support it can and should have with these professionals. The truth is that in Portugal we are making an important but still insufficient path to the shortcomings evidenced, with a view to a truly inclusive society. As regards, in particular, deaf people, for example, the Greens have fought in Parliament for translation into the gestual language of television content, particularly information content, among many other measures. We therefore hope that the other parliamentary committees will accompany us, so that we can continue to build an inclusive society without discrimination and equal opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u341	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Germana Rocha, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 4000 subscribers of the initiative under consideration, whose main aim is to regulate the profession of Portuguese gestal interpreter. I also leave a very special compliment to all professionals who, daily, contribute somehow to a more inclusive society. Since the gestual language is the means of expression of the deaf community, through its own knowledge and dynamics, it is therefore a fundamental instrument for the inclusion and equality of opportunities in access to basic and essential services of life in society. But if there are moments for inequalities to be accentuated, it is undoubtedly this pandemic reality in which we live, especially in the difficulties of access to education by those who have specific needs or who do not even have a computer to do so. A reality with territories where you do not even have access to the Internet to study or to work, and that is why television is the only means of access to information, the presence of gestal-language interpreters makes, therefore, all the difference as a form of communication with the deaf community. The Constitution provides that the State is responsible for protecting and valuing the Portuguese gestual language. The Government could have already made some further contributions to this valuation and protection of the gestal language by fulfilling its obligation, which was approved by this Parliament not only in the State Budget for 2019, which provided for the strengthening of the recruitment of gestal-language interpreters in public services so that they could communicate with all but also in the State Budget for 2020, in which the revision of the legislation applicable to the exercise of this profession is being discussed today. A review of the legislation which, of course, should be heard by representative organizations, monitor the developments in this area, in particular by improving the working conditions of these professionals, so as to ensure the quality of the service provided to this community, resulting from the existence of an increasing sensitivity to the need for the presence of the interpreters of the gestal language as an inclusive factor. But, in fact, there is still a long way to go in guaranteeing the conditions essential to its development and recognition of its social function, a path cemented in equality, by including the difference and without leaving anyone behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u343	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CDS, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, firstly, and on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, to congratulate the petitioners, from the outset the National and Professional Association of Interpretation — General Language, and to say, as all other parliamentary groups have already said, that recognition for the importance of this profession and, in addition to the profession, for the public service these professionals perform is obviously something that unites this Parliament, unites the Portuguese society. It is clear that it is difficult to do justice to the relevance of this service, because it is unfortunately only aware of its importance that those who cannot, in any way, escape the need to resort to it. Sometimes he spends a little time with the rest of society, and Parliament cannot let it be so — in fact, he cannot leave Parliament and he cannot leave the government — and 20 years is too long to be able to respond to the ambitions which, once again, are expressed in this petition, but unfortunately they are not new. There are issues raised here which are general and which have to do with regulation of professions or, for example, with access to the status of a rapidly worn-out profession. These are subjects that we have already discussed and which require a global analysis. But there are others who are specifically concerned with the profession of Portuguese Gestive Interpreter and there is no reason for this Parliament not to respond. During the PSD / CDS government, in 2013 the then Minister of Solidarity, Employment and Social Security, Pedro Mota Soares, began the Core for the Portuguese Gesture Language, seeking at the time to give an impetus that this profession would be accompanied, evaluated and from there could be regulated. Unfortunately, another seven years have passed and we continue without this advance. on the part of the CDS Parliamentary Group, the commitment that I have made to the question of access to the profession and to the regulation of the status of the rapid wear-out profession which require a global analysis, with regard exclusively to the career of Portuguese gestal interpreter, is that we can collaborate in a legislative process that makes this progress and that, above all, does justice to a public service which is essential and which cannot, in any way, go along with the obligation of this Parliament, which is the one to consider and find solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u345	You have the floor for an intervention by the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to welcome the more than 4000 petitioners who claim to regulate the profession of Portuguese Gesture Interpreter and to greet the National and Professional Association of Interpretation — Gesture Language, which has also placed this claim, often at various meetings and also in this petition. Law No. 89 / 1999, which defines the conditions of access and exercise of the activity of gestal-language interpreter, results from a bill that the PCP then presented. Knowing at the time the legal vacuum that existed in this area, as well as the importance of responding to this reality, we advanced with a draft law to define the access and exercise of the activity of the interpreter of gestal language, in particular the functions of the interpreter, the conditions for it, with particular emphasis on training, and its obligations during the performance of the function, also providing for the responsibility of the State in this matter and ensuring the participation of the deaf community and its associations. We then affirmed that, and I quote, "Ensuring the possibility of full communication is one of the most important factors for the real integration and inclusion of deaf people and is indispensable for their school, professional and cultural training. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this context, it also takes particular importance to dignify the portuguese gestual language as the main instrument of this communication, as it also provides for our Constitution of the Republic, in its article 74. the, which determines that it is the responsibility of the State « Protecting and valuing the Portuguese gestual language, as cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities; ». Proper use and interpretation of the gestual language requires qualified and properly trained professionals to ensure communication between deaf and hearing people. And if initially the role of interpreter began to be played predominantly empirically by the family members of the deaf people, nowadays the reality is very different, and today these qualified, trained and specialized professionals. The CFP follows what is required by the petitioners, such as the need for regulation of this profession — indeed, provided for in the Act itself — which we believe to be a primary responsibility of the Government and which several governments, over 20 years ago, have ignored. Gestal-language interpreters have a fundamental role as bridge between deaf and hearing people and even between deaf people and access to public services, helping to overcome persistent communicative obstacles that, in many situations, mean the exclusion of deaf people from the realization of their rights. Furthermore, the CFP, still recently, discussed here an initiative that proposes the hiring of interpreters for public services, which the votes against PS and the abstention from PSD rejected. But we accompany and defend the appreciation of professionals in this area, which goes through the regulation of the profession, its effective recognition and consideration of a set of specificities of this profession to prevent the emergence of professional diseases and also minimize the wear inherent in it. An appreciation that also goes through the fight against the precariousness experienced by these workers, and stability and wages should be guaranteed, as well as the presence of these professionals in public services. It is in this sense that the CFP will continue to intervene. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u347	Mrs. Members, now in exceptional circumstances that have been decided to maintain the parliamentary work during this period, Mrs Marta Freitas of the Socialist Party, who is in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, will make her intervention by videoconferencing. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group the 4110 subscribers to this petition, which is being appreciated in the Assembly of the Republic, and this is certainly a civic act that elevates our democracy, as the activity these professionals carry out. The Socialist Party accompanies these concerns and has already demonstrated appreciation for the importance of Portuguese gestual language. It is always important to remind the honourable Members. Members and Members present that there are studies that say that political measures directed at people with disabilities have had great impulses two decades ago, beginning visible measures with Antonio Guterres as Prime Minister and with documents such as the Law against Discrimination of Persons with Disabilities or 1. the Action Plan for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities 2006 / 2009, being currently the socialist government leading. It was also the Socialist Government that was leading when Law No. 89 / 99 of 5 July came into force which defines the conditions for access and exercise of the activity of gestal-language interpreter, thus undermining linguistic barriers. Even in the previous legislation, there were significant new advances in promoting greater inclusion and autonomy of people with disabilities, highlighting, among several measures, the social provision for inclusion. Already in this legislature, the Government Programme plans to disseminate the Portuguese gestual language and ensure its effective availability in public services. In the State budget, the provision of recruitment funds for gestal-language interpreters is maintained, the strengthening of the working conditions of these professionals, the regulation of the process of access to the profession, the creation of a grant of hours available to families, as well as the provision of video-interpretation responses in Portuguese gestual-language in all public services. I also refer to the VAT exemption (value added tax) in the services provided by these professionals. The National Health Service also provides a platform for this, so that deaf citizens can have access to Portuguese gestal interpreters available 24 hours as well as a pilot project for 112. The underlying concerns in the projects under discussion are set out in the State Budget for this year. Thus, the National Institute for Rehabilitation is responsible for the provisions laid down in the law, through the Nucleo for the Portuguese Gestual Language. The Socialist Party considers that this profession has many specificities, it has changed both in the number of professionals and in the demands of the services of these professionals, and therefore through its own mechanisms it should be given continuity to the committee which includes representatives of the representative associations of the deaf community, as well as of the interpreters of the gestual language, with the effect of regulating the access and exercise of this professional activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u349	Mrs Sofia Araújo will now take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau and also of the Members. Members who, in the autonomous regions, followed us by videoconferencing. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Office of the President of the Assembly of the Republic in draft resolutions Nos 506 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government an extraordinary set of support measures to the agricultural sector as a result of the adverse climate phenomenon in the North and Central regions, which falls to 7. the Commission, 507 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government initiate all necessary procedures for the European Union to lead an investigation into China's performance throughout the pandemic scenario, which falls to 4. the Commission, and 508 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — National strategy for the promotion of urban arbores, which falls to 11. the Commission, with connection to 3. the Commission. I also give the information that they were present, through videoconferencing, at today's plenary meeting, the Deputies of PS João Azevedo Castro and Lara Martinho and PSD Member António Ventura, elected by the Autonomous Region of Azores, and the Deputies of PS Carlos Pereira and Marta Freitas and PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-08.u351	Thank you very much, Secretary. Tomorrow, our session will start at 10 a.m. and we will have 34 initiatives under discussion. At the first point, we will generally appreciate Law Projects Nos 400 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Provide the consumer with information on the purchase price to the producer or fisher of foodstuffs, 344 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated measures to respond to the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on the wine sector, 374 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Immediate support measures for small and medium-sized farms which compensate farmers for the serious damage caused by the outbreak of COVID-19, 381 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a cost support measure with electricity in the agricultural and agricultural sector ( green electricity ), 382 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, 412 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Measures to promote fish flow from artisanal, local and coastal fisheries and to create a simplified public regime for the acquisition, distribution and exploitation of low-value fish in lot, 422 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the obligation to inform the consumer of the environmental costs of food production, together with Resolution Projects Nos 459 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures for the formulation of fair prices to the producer and to the consumer and 477 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — By drawing up and fixing a minimum price to be paid to the producer and by combating unfair practices in commercial relations between large distribution and food suppliers. In the second point, we will discuss draft resolution No 64 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Granting of honours from the National Pantheon to Aristides of Sousa Mendes. At the third point, we will discuss draft resolution No. 432 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government apply the reduced VAT rate to nutrients or nutrients ( vitamins and minerals) that strengthen the human immune system. At the fourth point, we will appreciate Decree-Law No. 23 / 2020 of 22 May, which lays down the rules for the conclusion of management partnership contracts in the field of health[ Parliamentary assessments Nos 14 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 16 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 19 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). At the fifth point, we will discuss, together and in general, the Drafts of Law Nos 393 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures extraordinary social protection support for workers without access to other social protection instruments and mechanisms, 367 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates the extraordinary unemployment and cessation allowance applicable to workers on behalf of others, self-employed and informal workers excluded from other support, 415 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Decreasing to half of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit, end-of-activity allowance and end-of-life allowance( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 20 - C / 2020 of 7 May ), 427 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional and temporary work contract suspension scheme for non-pocket payment and 428 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improvement of conditions of access to social unemployment benefit. At the sixth point, we will also discuss, together and in general, Law Projects Nos 394 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Appointment of members of independent administrative entities, 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( 8 ). the amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ), 423 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Alter the functioning of the Banco de Portugal bodies ( 8 ). the amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ) and 433 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Scheme for the appointment and removal of members of the board of directors of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors( 2 ). the amendment to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August. At the seventh point, we will generally discuss Law Projects Nos 256 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the need for impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive way of tree species, 25 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Determines a minimum distance between the extreme of superintensive permanent agricultural crops and housing nuclei, 86 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Visa the protection of migratory and winter bird species through the prohibition of the mechanized harvest of olives during the night, 105 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Regulates the installation of olive and almond in intensive and superintensive regimen, 146 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The third amendment to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April, determining the impediment of nocturnal mechanized olive harvest with a view to the preservation of avifauna, 156 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Safeguards and Environmental Impact Assessment Scheme ( AIncA ) of intensive and superintensive agricultural holdings, together with Resolution Projects Nos 13 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Calls on the Government to ensure that superintensive permanent agricultural crops are not eligible for public support, 98 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government prepare a study on the sustainability of olives in sebe, 159 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Assessment study on the extensive agricultural production areas in intensive and superintensive and 274 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratory to the installation of olive and intensive and superintensive almonds. Finally, on the eighth point, without time for discussion, the Bill No. 233 / XIV / 1 is scheduled. a ( PSD ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Passos » in the municipality of Fafe, for « Paços. It will be followed by a period of regular voting and only after lunch. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Our work for today is closed. See you tomorrow at ten o'clock. [[It was 19 hours and 31 minutes.]]
