ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Culture, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 9 hours and 6 minutes.]] We will start this plenary session, which has as its first item on the agenda the urgency debate required by the PSD, on the current state of culture in Portugal. Before we start the debate, I give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, so that she can give two information to the plenary. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good day to all and to all. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 454 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the legal type of crime of offence to the physical integrity and honour of security forces and services agent ( fiftieth amendment to the Criminal Code) and draft Resolution No 535 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — The creation of a regime effectively deterring the breach of obligations arising from the state of emergency or disaster. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u3	Let us now start the debate. Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u4	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: From an extended set of topics that require reflection and discussion at parliamentary headquarters, the PSD today chose the area of culture and this choice was made for the worst reasons. Portugal has been hit by the pandemic for months, but the culture sector has been hit by another pandemic for years. It is enough to remind us that the Minister is still in charge of herself, that is, the inheritance he received is heavy and the divorce between the Ministry of Culture and cultural agents was evident and visible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the activities most directly linked to culture were the first, if not even the first, to close doors and suspend the activity. This sector, strongly marked by seasonality or intermittentness, accompanied by strong job precariousness and poor ability to converge people and wills, turned to the protection and to the Minister of Culture, in expectation — low expectation! — to find urgent, transversal and specific measures which reflect valid responses for entities and professionals. Mrs. Minister, the answers were short, late, opaque and none transversal. The first bright idea was the delivery of 1 million euros to RTP's Fest TV, to help some, about 150, in their words. He retreated, in the face of widespread challenge, and still today does not understand the reason for the challenge. Next, we had the Emergency Support Line to the Arts Sector — Emergency Support Line to the Arts Sector! — and for this line there were only EUR 1 million, later reinforced with €700 000. They were more than 1000 applications, but supported were only about 300. Does this make sense? Is it consistent? Is it transversal? In part, they protected the performances not performed and maintained contractual agreements. And everyone else? All of this at the same time, without well-known and syndicable rules, without transparency and even abetting, the independence of the recipients was achieved by EUR 15 million for the social communication. Is this consistent? If we join these measures €430 000 for the bookstores and publishers sector, we can close the participation of the Ministry of Culture in response to the pandemic. And neither the government nor the PSD can complain — that was all there was to it! We have been with the government to support and help build solutions and answers. We supported the few measures, without prejudice to the fact that we did not see coherence and even transparency in decisions, but it was time to unite and give a vote of confidence. In a short time, the Minister was in charge of breaking down this confidence and compliance capital of the PSD and returning to more than that, i.e. zero. The measures taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security were transversal, but it was obvious that they would leave wide ranges of cultural agents unprotected. And the Minister of Culture, you know? Of course I knew it! Even the trapping form as the Government has shaken responsibilities for the authorities, with the indication of early payments to the cultural professionals and the promise of EUR 30 million, which are passed from one fund to the others—it is even socialist, always the same money—has the effect of the complaint of the authors themselves in this House, that the application of these measures runs the grounded risk of the censure of the Court of Auditors, which has already begun to speak to the authors about this issue. This reality is so loud and so serious that, slowly, the structures and cultural agents themselves have ceased to recognize in the Ministry of Culture the ability to be part of the solution and, at this moment, the apparent heavy silence that lives in culture is equal to the heavy silence of a cemetery. In Portugal, the Ministry of Culture has shown that it does not meet the challenge that the pandemic carries and, in despair, cultural agents have turned to the other organs of sovereignty. The PSD has never been the subject of as many contacts, requests for hearings and dramatic appeals as it is now. Some of the hearings in the Committee on Culture and Communication are shocking because of the complete abandonment of people who pass below the support radar. This week we were impressed with the delivery, at the door of a theatre, of food bags or food to go to the professionals of the culture. And the PSD asks: what is the Minister of Culture doing, besides commenting on the circumstance? Isn't this against you? What else has to happen in order to stand up and wake up? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate that we have discussed is a debate of denunciation, denunciation of arrogance, incompetence, lack of strategy and coherence and the absolute absence of a true Ministry of Culture to the extent of the responsibilities of the moment we are going through. [[PSD applause.]] But, unfortunately, we bring another complaint. I speak of the unbearable cultural policy based on the Minister's personal tastes. There is the Minister's culture and there is another, smaller and ostracized. It does not concern the law, history or the social or economic relevance of cultural activities. In the use of the law, the circus is culture, deserves protection and projection, but for the Minister it is not, only being supported the contemporary circus! In the law, Tauromachy is culture and deserves recognition and non-discrimination, but for the Minister it is not and even allowed to ignore the basic duties and the sense of state that the function requires to display, in the Minister's clothing, his preferences and his personal repugnations. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Members, fill the Small Camp with thousands of people for a musical show is possible and it is culture, but to serve as a bull market are already more people and capacity is reduced to one third of the lot! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u5	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u6	I will now finish, Mr President. The PSD has had a responsible and collaborative attitude over the past few months and we are not sorry, but we will not allow our responsibility to become complicity and our silence to be applauded. Don't! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u7	Ideas, zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u8	For the Government, Mr. Minister for Culture, Graça Fonseca. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u9	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. For an honest debate on the area of culture to be possible, it is essential to have a brief memory exercise. When the Government led by the Socialist Party began the previous legislation we had a very clear objective: to reverse the downward investment curve to which the previous government had relegated culture, in a framework of total lack of strategy for this area. And that's exactly what we did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u10	They've been there for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u11	Overall, the budget for the area of culture increased by 40 % in the four years of the previous Parliament and this year increased by 10 % compared to the previous year. Support for the arts grew by 75 % between 2015 and 2019, and only this year grew by 17 %. Overall, support for arts and artistic creation in the 2020 approved budget means a global investment of around EUR 90 million. But we did not limit ourselves to strengthening the DGArtes budget (Directorate-General for Arts) and increasing State investment in cultural foundations, which the PSD Government had abruptly cut. We created structuring projects for the future, such as the National Plan of Arts, which met, this month, its first year, involving thousands of artists and students from our schools. We have redeemed interrupted public policies for more than 20 years, such as the policy of acquisitions of works of art. With the creation of the Committee on Contemporary Art Acquisitions, the State will invest 800 000 euros in works by Portuguese artists for the collection of the State. But we went even further, with the integration into the state's heritage of a set of very important collections, such as the 85 works of Juan Miró, that the PSD government wanted them to be out of the country,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... or the 196 works of the ex-BPN Collection, which today are integrated into the State Collection and which represent an investment of EUR 65 million in the acquisition of works of art. Similarly, in the book and library sectors, investment has increased and policies have been resumed for a long time. This is the case with the scholarships to support literary creation, which the Government has reactivated, and with the literary awards and support for internationalisation, the budget of which increased by 10 % by 2020. In cinema, ICA's budget ( Cinema and Audiovisual Institute ) reached EUR 20 million, a growth of almost 50 % compared to 2011. I recall here that 2012 was known as the « zero year» of cinema, in which they did not open contests for ICA in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Also in this area, like the other areas of culture, we launched structural projects for the future, such as the creation of the Tourism Fund, Cinema and Audiovisual and Film Commission Portugal. So far, 49 film projects have been approved in Portugal, totaling a global investment of EUR 59 million. It is also important to highlight the increase in investment in Cinemateca, museums, heritage and finally the creation of the Autonomy Statute of the Museum Directors, and now the opening of a competition for the directors of museums, reversing the concentration in DGPC ( Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ) of the PSD time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a very brief summary of what has indeed been done in March 2020, an unprecedented crisis has occurred in the world. A public, economic and social health crisis for which no one was prepared was brought down on all. There is no memory of anything similar in our contemporary life. We respond to cross-cutting measures adopted by the Government, but they apply and must of course apply to the culture sector because there is no reason why the worker in the culture should not be supported by social security. There's no reason for that to happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And yes, we approved the Arts Emergency Fund, created an emergency line for bookstores, and in three months we did what, on average, took nine months to be realized. That's what we did in the short term of three months. But more, and this is the relevant point in this urgency debate required by the PSD: in this House, the Supplementary Budget is under discussion, with the Economic and Social Stabilization Plan, and in this Budget, we are talking about a financial package greater than EUR 34 million of direct support for people and structures, divided by a social support line for professionals independent of the culture sector, by a line of support for equipment and structures, in order to support the activity, and by a line of adaptation of spaces in response to the demands of the pandemic. This is added to EUR 30 million via Community funds for cultural programming with municipalities and more EUR 8, EUR 5 million for cinema through the release of the ICA management balance. In total, we are talking about a global budget boost of EUR 70 million for culture. There has never been similar reinforcement in the history of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And once again, the measures are not limited to strengthening the budget. The PEES ( Economic and Social Stabilization Programme ) also includes structural measures for the present and future of culture. The Statute of the Workers of Culture, whose work has already begun with meetings with the trade union and the representative structures of the sector, the national inquiry to artists and workers of culture, which has also begun, a mapping to Portuguese cultural fabric, are measures that have been too long ago, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they are claimed by the sector and they have never been carried out until today. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government has a clear view of culture. We know that only with more public investment will we be able to respond to the problems we have inherited from the past and to meet the challenges that the present has posed to us. This also stands out, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a right-wing government and a left-wing government. It is that a right-wing government has responded to a crisis with cuts, de-investment and arbitrary concentrations of state services, we respond with increased investment and working conditions in the sector. This distinguishes the left on the right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u12	Maybe it's late, but there's a very persistent noise in the room. We shall move on to the first round of speeches, to which Mrs Rosário Gambôa from the PS Parliamentary Group speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is indeed unusual to be convened today for this emergency debate by the PSD. It is unusual because the PSD has always had the same position of disinterest and disinvestment in cultural politics when it was government and, paradoxically, now intends to dress in the clothes of its palate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Only two brief questions: did the PSD strengthen the budget for culture? Has the PSD strengthened investment in heritage, in support of arts or artists? Have you created the PSD new funding lines? Has the PSD defined any structural policy? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] To ride the difficulties, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, because it gives us public visibility is neither synonymous with solidarity nor with solution, it is exploitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there are more important facts for the country than lamenting the amnesia of the PSD, its infuriated embrace, based exclusively on reactivity, instead of solid ideas and configurating alternatives to an urgent project for culture. The situation of culture and its authors, interpreters and agents is, as we know, and it is important to say it, fragile, fragile. If this was not visible to many, the pandemic brought chronic diseases to the surface. It is therefore important to recognize the situation, to express our solidarity with a sector where problems are evident from day to day, and to do so not merely with words but by responding responsibly to the emergency situation in which these professionals live and, at the same time, giving concrete form to the commitment to the construction of a more solid future. This, yes, is the urgent debate that calls on us and we hope that this debate will not be missed. For women and men who make the multiple tissue of culture, the question that it is important to ask in this debate is just one: what policy do we have, in response, for this sector? Now, the Supplementary Budget, which is on the table, has this vocation: it mobilizes about 70 million in the necessary and urgent reinforcement to the field of culture, and we have just learned that they add 8, 5 million more to the Institute of Cinema and Audiovisual ( ICA ). We have several structured support lines, such as the social support line for artists, authors, technicians and other arts professionals, through the payment in July and September of the value corresponding to the benefit allocated to self-employed workers, amounting to three times 438, 81 €. We also have the support line for the reopening and maintenance of independent cultural equipment throughout the country, worth about EUR 3 million. It also refers to the line of support for the adaptation of spaces to the measures resulting from the VOCID, aimed at non-profit cultural equipment. It also refers to support for network, inter-municipal or regional cultural programming, financed at 100 %, amounting to EUR 30 million, to carry out projects in partnership through territorial and institutional cooperation networks throughout the country. But the present, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to build the future. In parallel to the emergency, the program that is on the table and cannot be forgotten or left to the side, advances with crucial measures for the sector, such as mapping, at national level, of the situation of cultural professionals and artistic structures, collecting quantitative and qualitative data that allow not only to better assess the impacts of the pandemic but also to inform important decisions for the future. The most important issue, perhaps a long time ago, is the definition of a legal status of the intermittent in artistic areas, capable of recognizing, protecting and dignifying the nature of many of these professionals, ensuring basic working and social security conditions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our responsibility is not merely internal, it is for those who are outside the gates of this House and who have our work, with our capacity for understanding, to respond to the moment and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u14	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u15	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I knew it! I knew that the best way to present to the whole country was to put Mrs Minister today in this debate and in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u16	More: when we prepared this debate, I had hope—it was not great, but I had it—to see the Minister surprise us, in a blow of wings, with any measure to which we could say it was new. I don't know if you've noticed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are absolutely in need of political support, spend half the time of intervention in an urgent debate on the PSD governments. I never thought this was possible! [[PSD applause.]] Having nothing to say, I don't know how many years I have had to go back, and yet, the way the government and the Socialist Party retreat is selective, i.e., they just retreat until 2015, because they retreat further becomes worrying. Or do you want us to put it on memory? Who were those responsible for such cuts that the PSD made? Many of them are still in the government today! Mr.Minister, this debate is urgent because of the pandemic, and you intend to make the 2015 to 2019 balance, when we had elections a year ago, it is something that we don't even understand. In the urgent debate we called for, we pointed out serious situations and the Minister did not deny them, did not challenge them and did not explain to us what she was going to do again to overcome the situation. [[Zero!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u17	He's having hearing problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u18	If you're going to tell us about the increases you made between 2015 and 2019, who's out there will ask what world the Minister of Culture lives in. The cultural agents who are attending our debate at this time are asking: "Is this the answer that the Ministry of Culture has for us? Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Minister, instead of coming here to do an analysis of all the work of this Ministry, I was careful to focus on those that are the emergencies at this difficult time, which Mrs. Minister even declared, and well, that it was a true tsunami. But we know that there is an extended set of actors, artists and cultural agents who did not have any kind of support, which therefore passed below the radar, to which specific solutions needed to be found. The answer was zero, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u19	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u20	More: I didn't even tell you about other serious situations, like what happens to Lusa's funding. For the PSD, today is not the day to talk about it, next Tuesday we will have a debate in committee. I did not talk to you about what is happening in the RTP, which is also serious, even serious, and determined a discussion of the entire committee to clarify some matters relating to RTP. I didn't tell you that, today is not the time. I haven't told you about the state secretary's bullshit that has the protection of social communication, which, curiously, is also part of your Ministry, but the Minister has no idea what it is. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the times that this Secretary of State appears in the newspapers are more because of him than because of the sector he guards. [[PSD applause.]] Ms. Minister, the PSD comes to this debate in search of answers, in search of good surprises. We have no answers, nor do we have any good surprises, but I repeat the questions: Mrs Minister, do you think it is appropriate, in the range of support that has been given, in which there is an emergency line for those who have not had any support, of EUR 1 million, which can be reinforced at EUR 700 000, there is EUR 15 million for the press? Do you understand this is appropriate? Do you understand that it is appropriate to support 150 artists with 1 million euros and to have an equal value for all others? Do you understand that it is appropriate for the delivery sector to have €430 000, which gives about € 1500 to each one, excluding those who are independent and those who do not meet very specific criteria? What does it do to those who do not meet such very specific criteria? The cultural agents today had to look at Parliament and withdraw from this debate some hope, some answer, something that would tell them that the situation would change, but they know today that everything will continue as heavy as the silence of a cemetery. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u21	Mr Beatriz Gomes Dias, for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u22	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Culture, Mrs. Members: The debate we have today is extremely important. The government has failed to implement a structured response to the crisis that has devastated the lives of workers and workers of culture. At the time that industry professionals claimed the creation of an emergency support fund that would guarantee subsistence in the face of the great loss of income, the government, ignoring the sector proposals, created the Emergency Support Line to the Arts Sector. In fact, this measure, much contested, was another competition to support artists and structures, with a clearly insufficient amount of money in the face of needs, and the results, as expected, were very unsatisfactory. of the 1025 projects only 311 were supported; many projects received funding far below the request, in some cases 60 %, in other than 50 % or even 25 %; and the selected projects have not yet received funding. What is the reason for this incomprehensible delay in making the funds available? Is it available to extend the number of structures eligible for this support? In a discretionary way, the traditional circus was excluded from the application for support under the pandemic. According to information provided by the Ministry of Culture, only the contemporary circus would be covered by support. The National Register of Professionals of the Sector of Artistic, Cultural and Spectacular Activities (RNPSAACE) includes, expressly, circus artists, no distinction between contemporary and traditional circuses, so this distinction does not only have legal acceptance as it constitutes an unacceptable form of discrimination among professionals in the artistic sector. Were there any instructions to exclude professionals from the traditional circus from the support to be allocated within the pandemic? On what basis was this instruction given? Is it available, Madam Minister, to issue guidelines for the allocation of support to all circus activities, including the traditional circus, and to review requests for support that have been refused? Another issue has to do with social distance measures, which make most live shows economically unviable. The return of industry activity will not solve the problem, since the vast majority of these workers and these workers will continue without activity or remuneration. In addition, many structures and workers who carry out artistic-pedagogic work with other communities (in educational services, schools and prisons) cannot resume their activity. Will the Government allocate specific support for compliance with health standards in the cultural areas managed by independent entities? Another information that has worried us has to do with Culture for All. Culture for All has suffered a reprogramming of its funds, which have been directed at other programmes, in particular for networking cultural programming, and the Prime Minister has already announced 30 million for its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u23	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u24	I would therefore like to know whether, indeed, the programme has been suspended and how the question of Community funds will be reorganised. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u25	Mr Paula Santos has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The PSD today brings the debate to a very important issue. The difficulties of workers in the area of culture and cultural structures are very evident. And the difficulties are not today. They have indeed been aggravated by the existence of the outbreak, but they are not today. We recall the PSD that, when it was government, he was responsible for the biggest cut in support of the arts. It is unfortunate that at that time they had not taken steps to ensure that the culture sector was valued, and not devalued, as it was in your government. If the PSD had intended to effectively support these structures and these workers, they could have voted in favour of the proposal that the CFP here brought of support to workers in the area of culture, who were left with no support whatsoever, and of support to cultural structures. But, by the way, the PSD chose to vote against! But, look, you're going to have a new chance! You will now have a new opportunity in the Supplementary Budget, because we have concrete proposals that will meet the difficulties of this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u27	Wasn't he there? Ask!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u28	Therefore, we will see what the PSD wants: whether it is effectively to support and contribute to solving the problems or if it does not pass a farce to try to deceive people also in this area. As far as you are concerned, Mrs Minister, I should like to say that in her speech she referred to a number of support which the Government has already launched, but in addition to the Government having taken a long time to intervene on this subject, all measures are, in fact, very insufficient, because thousands of art and culture workers continue to exist in a very difficult situation, without any support, without access to any social benefit, without access to any income. The Minister tells us about the PEES, but what is in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme has no translation into the proposal of the Government of Supplementary Budget which came to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic. It is clearly insufficient to deal with the difficulties that are on the table today to ensure that companies and artistic creation structures can continue to work and that their workers can continue to have their incomes. The Art Sector Emergency Support Line, which you mentioned here, has supported only about 300 projects and we do not know with what criteria, nor with what transparency regarding their results. Support for booksellers and independent publishers is insufficient, there are no concrete measures aimed at museums and cultural heritage, there are no concrete support aimed at the traditional circus, which is also going through a moment of extreme difficulties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u30	... and as for the cinema here today was announced by the Minister, a set of support, but I remember that the CFP had already raised this issue and it also takes an answer there. What we have seen is that there are a number of problems affecting these workers which result from the profound precariousness they are in their day-to-day, without stable working ties that allow them to achieve this stability. We can give the example of the workers of the House of Music, who today is news, in which the Act (Working Conditions Authority) states that there are signs of false green receipts and of hidden work existence, in a structure in which the government also has responsibilities. And what did you do about this in order to ensure stable working links to these workers? These are the answers that are needed, Mrs Minister: a concrete intervention and measures to support these workers without any incomes, but also with regard to their precarious links.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u31	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. Is that why the Government is going to set an example and that, in the structures that are the responsibility of the State or the structures supported by the State, it will put an end to these precarious links? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u33	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : The Minister has repeatedly said that "culture was one of the sectors in which the pandemic had a greater impact". We agree, even because it's a fact. It has also said several times that the culture sector closed before the rest of the country, at the time of the state of emergency, which is also another fact. I should like to see these statements by the Minister deserve a proportional counterpart with regard to the support measures, and, even if they did not at least ask for a counterpart as to their speeding up and their application, what has clearly not been the case. Here are some examples. I do not have the time that the Minister has had to make such a long historical review, but, after all, we are in 2020, perhaps this year we are interested in setting ourselves up. Mrs. Minister, then let's start with the case of performing arts professionals. The restrictions were lifted by the Government on 1 June, as was expected, there were difficulties in rearranging the cancelled events and these professionals, especially those who have no support, kept their fixed costs while their revenues dropped to zero. Therefore, there were a considerable number of professionals who failed to maintain their commitments and obligations with the Tax Authority ( AT ) and with social security. Paradoxically, and as a result of this failure, which is based on the very crisis for which they ask for support, these professionals have entered a loop here and are prevented from applying for State support. Therefore, they failed to honour their commitments because they had no support for it and now they cannot ask for support, precisely because they failed to honour those same commitments. In other words, Mrs. Minister, this time the bureaucracy pandemic is that it is really affecting the culture sector and I ask you if you intend to take some action to deconstruct this loop and finally bring the support to these professionals. By now, these same professionals have directed, through the Movement by the Professionals of Performing Arts, an open letter to the Minister, in which they said: « what have they given us? Nothing or almost nothing. We have been officially stopped for more than three months». Many actors, dancers, technicians and producers, and other professionals, continue without receiving the support that is due them because social security responds that the cases are under consideration. But why does social security take so long to respond to these cases under consideration when, as the Minister herself says, this sector has been most affected and has even been affected before all the others? Oh, my God! It seems incomprehensible to me. Another example, Mrs Minister, of the various I have here to bring you today, is the Tauromachia—it has already been mentioned here, I know that I would expect to bring the subject and therefore have to have a prepared answer. It is that sector in which there is always an exception. There's an exception, but for worse. There is always the exception, which is the exception of its cultural policy that always gives way to the temptation of its policy of taste. And, after the discrimination on VAT, now the discrimination on the lot of squares comes. Yes, there may have already been bull racing—I imagine it cost you—but unlike all other shows under similar conditions, the lotion is now reduced to one third or one quarter, instead of the 50 % that all other shows in identical circumstances have. It was contrary to the agreement, it was not justified and will lead to the impossibility of many bull races. So, Mr. Minister, with the same frontality that Mrs. Minister answers to this issue, I have to ask you: was it an intentional decision?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u35	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The COVID-19 health crisis has led to negative impacts in almost all sectors of society. However, there is a particular sector that has been historically and structurally weakened over the last decades, which is precisely the sector of culture. In view of the contingencies in response to the global health crisis, it is virtually paralyzed, and the fact that it is a sector particularly exposed to seasonality further aggravates an already worrying scenario. as we look at the response given by the government in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, we are led to conclude that the government wants to cure with aspirin a problem that only goes with a surgical intervention. We come to this conclusion when we see, for example, that the Government does not introduce structural changes or provide for effective support to sector professionals in the Amending Budget, only by devoting an increase of EUR 3, EUR 7 million to the Ministry of Culture, which will be channelled to the Cultural Development Fund, but also when we see that the Government only allocates EUR 550 thousand to a line of social support to artists, authors, technicians and other arts professionals, when it does not devote any money to the bookkeeper sector or when it dedicates only EUR 3 million to the line of support to independent cultural equipment, which is why we will not fail to defend, in the field of expertise, that these and other responses are reinforced, like what we have already defended in the debate around the responses to COVID-19, thus deignifying a sector that calls for help. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this speech we cannot help but give a word either to the PSD, which devoted this debate to the CDS, or now to the CDS, because we thought this was a debate on culture, but we were obviously wrong. It is only to bring to this debate the Tauromach activity makes us doubt whether we will be in the right debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members accuse the Minister of a policy of taste, when, in fact, political ethics should not provide for support for a policy of violence. And violence cannot be the violence of taste, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u37	It's in the law! It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u38	It's bad taste, I remember, it's actually torturing animals. That is, in fact, a very bad taste in a debate that is serious, around those that are the social needs of many families who see their incomes reduced. Therefore, the Tauromachian sector, which has benefited from millions of euros over the years, does not need you to ask for charity for them or influence them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u39	Ah, won't you allow us to talk?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u40	Yes, we need to have a serious debate about culture. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] The honourable Member may say what you want, but, Madam Member, we have the freedom to disagree! And, moreover, we have the freedom to bring to this Assembly of the Republic the ethics of the 21st century, which is not an ethics of torture or violence, Mrs. Tauromachy is, in fact, not a culture, whether they want it or not, contrary to the wishes of the sector that you have seen in the crop shed the ideal pretext for deceiving the most unwary and continuing to receive high public subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u41	It's in the law! It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u42	In fact, Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira, the PSD who talked so much about the difficulties of the artists is the same thing that prefers the political decision to support the Tauromachic activities rather than being focused on what is essential for the professionals of culture. The NAP understands that the true professionals of culture cannot be the poor relatives of the economy or those for whom the state only looks in the free times. On the contrary, they should be considered for the relevant role and for the decisive contribution they make to society. For those, the NAP will always say present!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u43	Mr Mariana Silva, from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « The acquisition of culture means a constant elevation, served by a flowering of what is best in man and by an ever-growing development of all its potential qualities, considered from a quadruple physical, intellectual, moral and artistic point of view. It means, in a word, the conquest of freedom," said Benedict of Jesus Carça. Freedom, defended at the time when there were no more basic elements but assumed in its entirety the right to create and enjoy, the right to dream and build, the right to design and realize. Today, we are debating the state of culture in Portugal, on the initiative of one of the parties that made gross cuts in the Budget of all areas of culture, from arts to heritage, revealing contempt by artists and cultural agents, and handed over to private exploitation the heritage, closing dozens of cultural structures by strangulation caused by their political options. But, of course, it's not yet today that you're going to blame me. But if that was the black picture that PSD and CDS left, the timid progress made as a result of the struggle of cultural agents and the new framework that emerged from the previous elections, which, despite everything, we valued, faced with the obsession of the PS to pursue a part of the previous path, continuing to subject the essential of defending culture and the arts to the dictatorship of deficit, financial balance, of the Brussels orders, and were not enough to reverse that disaster path that came from behind. These days of insecurity, uncertainty and doubt were far worse for cultural agents than that. The total paralysis of his activity, associated with a widespread precarious situation for the overwhelming majority of the workers in the culture and the smallness of the public resources available, led thousands of women and men in the culture to a dramatic situation. Some days ago, we could hear his screams, in Rossio square, here in Lisbon, in the Allies, in Porto, in Coimbra, in Évora, in Faro. The diagnosis was very clear. The PS government did not respond to culture at the time it would be required. We heard theater companies, heard book promoters, heard circus artists, heard movie dynamizers, heard plastic artists, heard artisans, heard musicians. Is it because they're used to walking hats in their hands? Don't! It is because, in addition to having no means of subsistence, without the creation and use of art, culture, leisure, convivio, feel themselves defining and dying. Do you have the Minister and your government fully aware of this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u45	Mr. Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Thank you for the questions and for the speeches. I will not respond with the same language as the PSD, between the indigent and the cemetery, because I believe that the debate should have some level and I will try to maintain the level of this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the present is not a blank page, it has a story, it is not just a chapter in a history that has not been written.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u47	It's been five years!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u48	And, yes, honourable Member, it is very important that we realize the differences, because parliamentary debates really serve for that, for the people out there, the citizens, understand the difference between the PSD and PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u49	You got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u50	This parliamentary debate is very important. That is why, Mr President, it is very important to highlight, in the face of the crisis we are facing and in the same way as you speak openly about the crisis they have had to face, what are the answers given on the right and on the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm just going to give one more example, to illustrate. In 2012 all the companies supported by DGArtes received a letter informing them that there would be cuts in some cases of around 60 % of the contracts they had signed for support of the arts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u51	In 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u52	That's right, sir. Do you know what happened in 2020? I explain to you: in 2020, in the face of a crisis and the difficulties we all experienced, DGArtes, ICA, all the cultural institutions, maintained their financial commitments, kept the contracts under way and, although there was no programming, no company ceased to receive what it was entitled to receive by contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is a very important difference, Mr, because it is from these differences that you see the role of the State that each of these two parties believes it should maintain. It is also very important here to highlight that the PSD ignores, or realizes that there is no debate in this House on the Supplementary Budget. Be careful; pass on, as if the Supplementary Budget was not being discussed here. in this Supplementary Budget, in fact, there are very important measures that you choose not to mention, certainly because I would have done something similar and at the time the PSD did not do so, contrary to what this government is doing. But I will highlight and clarify the measures that are at stake here. First, we have a line of support for all cultural structures and equipment that obviously had a very significant damage when the government and this House have decreed the need for the closure of cultural institutions. When something unprecedented happens in contemporary history of having happened, which is to close cultural institutions, of course the damage is enormous. That is why in the Supplementary Budget there is a line of EUR 3 750 000 to support cultural equipment for damage and adaptation to the rules of the Directorate-General for Health. But more: for the first time in history—which I know, perhaps there were other times—the Ministry of Culture has a line in the provisional appropriation, in the Supplementary Budget, of EUR 30 million for additional social support to the workers of culture. This is the first time that the Ministry of Culture does not just support creation and programming, it supports independent workers—artists, authors, technicians. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is an additional support for the support that social security already gives, because, and I highlight this point, there is no reason for the workers in the area of culture not to be included in the universal social security support. That is why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who exist a social state in Portugal, because there are universal support to which everyone, including cultural workers, has a right and in which all must be included. But precisely because, just like you here. Members have raised the question over the years, the labour and contribution problems of careers and the conditions of cultural workers have not been solved, which means precisely that this additional support is necessary, in view of the low values that workers generally had of social security. That is why there is this line of EUR 30 million for additional social support for cultural workers. Moreover, as I said once and for all, if we do not solve the problem of the status of the worker of culture, this support which we are now giving, of EUR 30 million, will be consumed in an environment and it was very important, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, because this is an issue which will also have to involve, necessarily, and well, this Parliament, which we would understand from the right to the left, on the fact that, by the end of the year, we have done this work and we can finally solve the status of the cultural professional here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The meetings began, the work is under way, a first meeting was held with me, with Mrs. Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, with Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, with the union, with the platforms. We will promote a set of hearings and our commitment remains: by the end of this year, we will have a proposal for the status of the cultural worker. And we will do it in this working group, in which all three ministries are deeply involved, and here I leave the appeal for Parliament to also be involved. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the years, many have called for an inquiry into the working conditions of culture, so that we all know more about the concrete situation — not just in large numbers, but the concrete situation — of people working in this area. More data are needed, not only quantitative but above all qualitative, and that is exactly why we started a work, with the observatory of cultural activities, in order to do, during this year, an inquiry into the working and career conditions of workers—artists, authors, technicians—and the mapping of the cultural fabric, because we all need to know better, more in detail, the Portuguese cultural fabric, the network of cinematraps, the network of cinematubs, the spaces that exist of presentation and where they are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to have this knowledge. This one, as I said, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a crisis like any other, it is a very particular crisis. There is no memory, I insist, in our contemporary life, of our necessarily staying at home. This has a brutal impact on culture in all countries of the world, it is not a Portuguese singularity. And it is precisely because we realize that the impact is extraordinarily strong that we do not limit ourselves, on the contrary, to the emergency measures taken for three months, because we knew, and we know, that it was not possible, in that three-month period, to adopt measures that would be able to respond to the brutality of the crisis that was imposed, from a public health crisis. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this Supplementary Budget has the budgetary strengthening of culture at a global value of EUR 70 million. This is the response of the Government of the Socialist Party to a crisis — to an unprecedented crisis, it is true — in which we did not choose to cut investment in culture; on the contrary, we chose to increase and strengthen, in culture, in equipment and in workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u53	For all the purposes they consider useful, I must say that there are already more than enough records for quorum purposes. We are going to the second round of this debate. Mr Pedro Cegonho of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is an urgent debate required by the PSD. I still brought a notebook to take notes, because I thought the PSD was urgent to make its contribution and to present its measures on this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u55	Mr. Deputy is a lyrical!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u56	But after all, I'm going with my blank book. PS does not receive PSD lessons in terms of culture. It was not the PS that extinguished the Ministry of Culture; the PS created and restored the saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u58	It looks like the memory channel!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u59	The only person in this Chamber who actually brought measures, ideas and a programme for the future of culture in Portugal was the Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It did so not only by referring to the work done so far, with the National Plan of Arts, with the acquisitions of works of art by the State, with the Scholarships of Literary Creation, with Portugal Film Commission, with the competitions launched for the directions of the museums, with access to the cross-cutting measures that the Government has presented in an unprecedented period of crisis, but also by referring to and presenting a Programme of Economic and Social Stabilization where, truly, cultural employment is dynamic... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u60	... with 30 million for network cultural reprogramming, with a line of support for adaptation of space to measures resulting from the COVID-19, with a line of support for independent cultural equipment of 30 million, with 34 million for social support to artists, authors and technicians — social and non-competitive support. Social support! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It must be stressed that this measure will be very important for more than 18 000 workers in the cultural sector. These are the ideas, these are the measures that the Government has brought here and that the PS wants to support, not only by seeing the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme implemented but also by helping to review the status of professionals in the arts. It is necessary to review the working conditions, the modalities of the legal links, the contribution schemes of these workers, the vocational conversion regime, access to social support, the revision of their tax system and, therefore, we want the Assembly of the Republic and the parliamentary groups — starting with the PS Parliamentary Group — to be alert to the great joint work that will be done with the entities of the sector, led by the government, but which will then have to have the commitment of this House to the creation of a true status of the intermittent, which does not leave the people unprotected in the face of crises such as we have so far lived. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the urgency debate required by the PSD the only urgency we see here is to approve the Supplementary Budget by 2020, so that the measures of the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme come into force and indeed help those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u61	Mr Alexandre Poço of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u62	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: I was just saying to the Minister that there is no memory of a crisis like this. But then, if there is no memory of a crisis like this, we do not realize that it is coming to Parliament today, giving us a history class for which it says there is no memory. If there is no memory of a crisis like this, we do not understand the comparisons with 2012, with 2015, because, truly, what artists and cultural professionals need today is answers; they do not need a history class of Ms. Minister of Culture or the Socialist Party. I therefore ask you a very specific question: why have 1000 applications for the EUR 1 700 000 line, less than one third — more than 300 — been supported? Why has this support line not distributed any more support? We can go back to another issue which has also been mentioned recently, the advertising purchase programme, the famous EUR 15 million. There are many ways to support the social communication, but the government has chosen one that has only resulted in controversy, squabbling and doubt, many doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u63	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u64	The Government chose a model that did not meet transparency criteria, an opaque and omitted model in the distribution of funds, a model that led the Association Transparency and Integrity to send a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to explain the criteria for the allocation of these 15 million euros. Mr Minister, it is a model that has also led to media media bodies—the result of the jokes and doubts the Government has managed—to say that this programme had an unfair distribution and that it was a punishment to the most uncomfortable social media bodies for the PS and the Government. However, Mrs Minister, I ask you: do you mean that the funds of this EUR 15 million have already been transferred to the media? If so, when and for what organs have the money already been transferred? Finally, Madam Minister, under the EUR 30 million funding line for municipalities, we want to know—maybe, it is not the most appropriate minister to respond, since the measure was announced by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Territorial Cohesion—if these funds are to be implemented, when they are to be executed, if the municipalities are to be involved and if the municipalities are to be deemed to deserve more or less support from the Government, given that they are the municipalities that dynamize the largest cultural agenda in this country. It's just that if it weren't for the municipalities, with your cultural policy... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] You don't have to get angry, Mr Secretary of State! As I was saying, if it weren't for the municipalities, with your cultural policy, we wouldn't have any response within this pandemic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u65	It's the time of the Left Block. Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason that has led the right to mark this debate is a mystery. Yes, a mystery, since when it was government, culture and ministry had it. The problem does not seem to be the attempt to make them forget what they were doing when they were government. The real problem is that you still don't know what you want to do. The PSD is now in favour of increasing investment in wealth, but not to subject it to tourism, how does the Socialist Party do? Does it intend to increase investment in the arts? Do you have a single policy to present in this debate? Do you have proposals for structurally solving the problems of the sector? Are you willing to regain workers' rights and combat precariousness? The biggest crisis that the workers and the workers of culture have already lived has brought to the surface the costs of decades of de-investment, in which cultural policy was an approach and not a programme, in which the policy in favour of the prince has surpassed rights and democracy. The political option continues to ignore the structural failures of cultural policy that normalized precariousness, that of which, now, the House of Music and the Serralves Foundation abuse. The State failed to normalize informal work, the green receipt, the punctual services, which open and close activity, the independent worker, with mandatory schedules and unique customers, which left thousands of workers of the culture without a contributing career and without a back-up. Until the pandemic came. It will never be too much to remember that the culture sector was one of the first to stop and feel the cut in income. We therefore welcome the demand of the workers of culture, who demand a number of voices, but in unison, that those who work in culture must have the right to a contributing career and unemployment allowance at least. We welcome the Government's decision to create an exceptional support scheme for workers in this sector — it could not be otherwise — and the announcement of the start of negotiations with a view to creating the status of the cultural worker. The idea that the work of culture has to be precarious and without contract has to end. So, Minister, are you willing to integrate precarious workers into museums, monuments, sites, laboratories and archives? Is he willing to intervene in the scandalous way the precarious workers of the educational service of the Fundação Serralves, Casa da Música and the Teatro Académico Gil Vicente were dispensed? Finally, is he prepared to structurally resolve the precariousness of work in a sector that contributes to the wealth of the country, which promotes a public service, which guarantees a constitutional right and in which thousands of people and families have withdrawn their livelihood? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u67	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u68	Mr President, Minister for Culture, cultural workers need neither alms nor investigations. What they need is recognition of artistic and cultural work and the guarantee that this work is paid, corresponding to their social protection. That is what is necessary, these measures are urgent and that is the responsibility of the Government. It is because artistic and cultural work does not exist only when the show is presented or completed, regardless of whether it is transformed into a commodity that is sold. Artistic and cultural work goes far beyond that and is a social and permanent need of the country. Therefore, artistic and cultural work must be recognized as such by the State and the corresponding working and social conditions must be assured to the workers of culture. This assessment, Minister, is the primary responsibility of the Government. We understand the hypocrisy with which the PSD made this debate, without seeking a single objective of those who are the true objectives of the workers of culture and who meet their needs. But the responsibility of the government is not diminished due to the hypocrisy of the PSD. The government's responsibility is not to throw money into the air, as if to throw maize to the pigeons. The responsibility of the Ministry of Culture is to ensure the structuring of the artistic and cultural fabric throughout the country, from the coast to the interior, including autonomous regions. In the villages and villages of this country, we also need artistic work with the children. We need music, plastic arts, theatre, cinema in the most remote areas, because there too people have the right to access cultural creation and enjoyment. It is the government's responsibility to combat the precariousness of work, to combat the precariousness imposed on workers and creators, who are therefore also more vulnerable to a number of forms of censorship of artistic work. It is the responsibility of the Government to ensure wages and social protection for all the workers of the culture who live in their work and who, therefore, have the right to be valued not only from the social point of view but also from the point of view of the working conditions and living conditions of those who execute it. So, Mrs Minister, do I leave you with some specific questions: will you, or will you not, end the green receipts, starting with the State structures, integrating workers into the frameworks? Will the Government take measures to ensure that cultural workers and professionals throughout the country, including artistic creation structures, their labour and social rights, and to value working conditions with labour contracts corresponding to situations of defence of these labour rights? Will the Government follow up on the proposal presented by the CFP for emergency social support in the culture sector, in addition to what is proposed in the Supplementary Budget? Will you or will you not assume that, in the context of the support for the arts, the funds are still insufficient, the criteria and rules for their distribution are still inadequate, the information on the results continues to be not transparent and that all this requires a profound change in the options of the cultural policy that have been made? The Minister made two important references: to the Miró Collection and to the recovery of literary scholarships. Even so, what the Minister here has done in this regard in the Alentejo is called 'to greet the boss with the hat of others'.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u69	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u70	I conclude, Mr. President. It is that, Madam Minister, if the Miró Collection has not been sold and if the literary creation scholarships have been recovered, it was by proposal of the PCP! It was through the PCP struggle that this was guaranteed, starting with the collection that was not sold and by the literary stock exchanges, whose proposal for recovery was presented by the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u71	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. These two references, Mrs. Minister, removing the way you did them, are inspiring to those who should truly be a cultural policy at the service of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u73	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u74	Mr President, Mrs Minister, I have listened carefully to your initial speech. The Minister gave us a lecture on the difference between a right-wing government and a left-wing government and the idea she left us was that this difference is demarcated because, in times of crisis, a left-wing government makes the choice to invest rather than to cut. And I thought about it. Well, this would give you a long talk about the contours of the crisis and the degrees of freedom of choice, but I don't need to have this conversation here because the parties on your left have to explain to you that perhaps the Minister is not doing well with a left-wing policy. Look, you have been told that there is a lack of money, that there is a lack of precariousness, that investments have not arrived, that the workers outside have complained, and there has even been a Member who said that the Minister is in part continuing the policy of the PSD/CDS government. I therefore believe that this is an existential issue for the Minister to think about. It will remain for your reflection if, in fact, it is so left-handed as it likes to sneeze or is half lost, somewhere between the left and the right. But this is a conversation to have later on the closed door, when they close agreements to sign the same budget! Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u75	In any case, while thinking about it, even because it is a fundamental reflection, I would like to ask you once again what prevents you from doing your job, which is actually to perform the support you are committed to. It is, Madam Minister, that you may even put, for example, an infinite word in the Budget, but then, if you do not execute it, it is irrelevant. It was good to start by agitating what he was committed to. Another example which I would like to give you — if you could also respond to the others — was that in relation to the social communication already mentioned here, Mr. Minister opted for direct support for the purchase of the state's institutional advertising instead of, for example, doing what was suggested to her, which was to use, within IRC (tax on the income of the public) increases for those who invested in advertising. Mrs. Minister wanted to make a direct purchase of advertising. All right! It was EUR 15 million with VAT ( value added tax ). I'm not even going to discuss the criteria, which nobody knows - it's going there! What I ask you is why this money hasn't arrived yet. But I explain to you why this money has not yet arrived. He did not arrive because apparently the contracts are in the Ministry of Finance awaiting signature. So, Mrs. Minister, until they could be EUR 400 million, it was irrelevant! As long as this doesn't get unblocked, it's not enough. If it's not enough, don't solve it. If it doesn't solve, your policy is nothing! Mrs. Minister, when are you going to switch from contracts to acts? Finally, on the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, the Minister spoke in millions of euros to cover workers who have no other support and who are essentially self-employed in the area of culture. It is referred to in the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme that will cover 18 000 workers. However, at the beginning of June 2020, the Minister, the GEPAC, the Office of Strategy, Planning and Cultural Assessment, recently published an investigation explaining that this quota of workers in the cultural sector, workers on behalf of others, is around 40,000. Now, 18,000 to 40,000 are missing, more than half is missing! Mr. Minister, if this support ever gets there, how will you choose? What are the 22 000 that are left out and what are the 18 000 that are going to be covered? But please, Minister, speed up the measures. That's what the workers ask you to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u76	You now have the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u77	Mr President, Mrs Minister, after having listened to your explanations, there are still some doubts, in particular regarding the strengthening needed in the field of culture, from the very moment on due to the phenomenon caused by the state of emergency and the state of calamity. All the support that was being debated was needed to cover the needs of the artists themselves, who were left out of many of the support that was planned and who, even, came to this Assembly of the Republic to manifest themselves. in this sense, Mrs. Minister, we need to understand how far you are actually willing to go, because structural changes are not made without investment. Understanding that there has been a successive disinvestment in the culture sector, not only by this government but also by previous governments, we are now at a critical and turning point in our country, in which, indeed, we have to make choices and look at who we want to support. The area of culture, in which social communication is included, also includes other activities, such as, for example, that of bookkeepers and that of independent publishers. With regard to these, Mrs Minister, we would like to realize what you are actually willing to do, even because the NAP has already tabled a proposal to amend the Supplementary Budget to reinforce the support funds for cultural equipment, on the one hand, and artists, on the other. We also proposed that a specific support programme be considered and set up for small bookkeepers, along with the issue of traditional trade, and for independent publishers. We cannot forget that culture — access to education, books, music, art — is undoubtedly fundamental to having a population that has what is fundamental to its development and knowledge. It is structural and fundamental, Mrs Minister, that there is now, in this Budget, an efficient and more effective support to give these answers. Madam Minister, we want to know whether you will follow the proposal submitted by the NAP to strengthen these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u78	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u79	Mr President, Minister, it has not yet been that culture has had the signs that it is waiting, that it is becoming a priority in the attentions and measures of the Government. The problem is that culture can't wait any longer. The president of the trade union of the sector, the CENA-STE (Sunion of Trade Workers, Audiovisual and Music) said a few weeks ago that the sector "is living a reality never seen" — as you have just said in your speech — and that it was only not worse because "what is worth is there solidarity in the sector". There are still many workers living in solidarity. But solidarity cannot be eternal, for some of those who were solidarity yesterday are already in need of help. the Government must act. And now! It is necessary to act by ensuring the lines of support for the resumption of cultural activities in a very unbureaucratized, simplified and transversal way to all sectors, taking into account the new requirements of hygiene and safety but knowing, as the days that have passed show, that it is possible; ensuring, in the State budget, the necessary money to defend the heritage; regulating working relations and combating precariousness in the sector, because, Mrs. Minister, until the end of the year, the workers of culture need to live, not survive! It is necessary to ensure all tender structures for regular support, with the essential funds to support all those who demonstrate that they have conditions, affecting the funds to support artistic and cultural structures not covered by DGArtes'support, but considered eligible in accordance with their assessment and needs, avoiding their closure and consequent unemployment. Of course, it is necessary to take the commitment and take measures to ensure 1 % of the State budget for culture already in the next budget. Also because culture is not just a means of livelihood for workers, creators, agents and because it is certainly not a service that the Portuguese people have to get used to, as Mrs. Minister of Culture has suggested. Culture is, first of all, a right of those, but mainly a right of all. It is an inalienable right enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, an essential right and not, as some see, a privilege of only a few. But today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Government members, culture is a necessity, a basic aspiration of those who have been closed at home for months or limited in their movements. to the creators, to the agents of culture, to the painters, men and women of theatre, cinema or circus, to the writers, artisans, musicians, to those who care for heritage, to all who draw in their dreams a better world, where the beautiful, the color, the word said and written, the stone or iron worked, music and dance have a central place in the construction of happiness, to all of them, the solidarity of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u80	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister of Culture, Graça Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by answering some questions put by the Portuguese Communist Party. Mr. João Oliveira, we agree on almost everything,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u82	...except in a matter. The honourable Member says that there is no need for an investigation, but it is necessary. Mr President, it is not by chance that the Union itself has come to do so and will do so, precisely because in this sector there is a structural lack of information and data. The same numbers as some of the Members. Members have already mentioned various sources and different universes. We need to know more about the culture sector, both quantitatively and qualitatively, because this is a fundamental basis for public policies to be as appropriate to reality as possible. This is therefore the only point we do not agree with. The honourable Member speaks of the importance of culture throughout the country. All right! In all villages, in all municipalities. All right! That is exactly why, even during July, we are going to have a public discussion on the regulation of the film network adopted in this Parliament. As you will recall, the public debate was scheduled for June. The pandemic has made some calendar difficult, but by the end of July the public discussion will be put on the regulation of the film network throughout the country, which results from a series of discussions and conversations that were held between November and March with different entities. Also until the end of July, in conjunction with the regulation of the film network, the discussion will be put on the new cycle of support supported to the arts for 2021. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must always work on two levels and on two paths. We must respond to the crisis, which is what is currently under discussion in the Supplementary Budget, with the measures that need to be implemented throughout 2020 and 2021, but we must also keep up with what is planned and what is needed for the institutions to continue to support. I recall that in 2019, for the first time in many years, the competition to support the arts for the two years 2020 - 2021 was opened and completed in the same year. Fortunately, support contracts were still signed in 2019, because if they had happened as in the past, in which contracts were only signed in May of the following year, the situation would be much more dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I stress this point to say that it is very important to focus on the response to the crisis — how we are doing, I insist, on this Supplementary Budget — but it is also very important not to forget and pursue the path that was set. That is exactly what we are doing with the film network, with the new cycle of supported support, with the revision of the programme contracts of national theatres, which have to be revised at the end of this year, and continuing with the extension of networks, such as the network of contemporary art centres. Mr President, the first centre of this network will open on 4 July — and I would like to invite you all — in Coimbra, precisely with the placement of works of art that did not remain in Lisbon or went to Porto. They went to Coimbra, precisely so that in the Central region there is a pole that can dynamize a network of contemporary art centers throughout the country, which is exactly what we will also do by the end of July. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr João Oliveira raised the issue of the need to combat precariousness. That's right, sir! It's true! That is exactly why we started the discussion with the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, with Tax Affairs, with the Union and with the platforms to identify the problems we have to solve and the answers we have to give. throughout these months — and fortunately, this work began in November 2019 — we have done a whole compilation of comparative regimes, how other countries in Europe have been regulating these issues, what their answers are and what the balance sheet they make, because this issue is cross-cutting to all the countries of the European Union. We are looking for the best solutions and, at the moment, we are identifying the paths we must pursue. That is why, once again, I stress that we have the conditions to ensure that, by the end of this year, we will have a proposal to discuss the status of the worker of culture, and this is precisely the designation that resulted from the meeting with the Union and the representative platforms. Mr President, this means pointing to the future, it means ensuring that, in any circumstance, there is a pandemic, which is important if the level of precariousness and the careers of cultural workers have their own status, which can respond to the particularity and specificities of those working in this sector. That is our commitment and, therefore, Mr President, we agree that more programming is needed throughout the country and that there is a need to combat precariousness. Regarding the questions raised about the House of Music and some questions put by Mr.PSD... In fact, I must say that I have difficulty with the question about whether the municipalities will be involved in the Cultural Programming programme in the Network, because it reveals a deep ignorance of what is the Cultural Programming in the Network. Mr Alexandre Poço, let us all keep the information that I thought was from the knowledge of the honourable Members. Members, I recall that the Cultural Programming in the Network results from a reprogramming of Community funds that are in the so-called regional OPs, regional operational programmes, which are operationalized by regional development coordination committees, CCDRs, and which are available to municipalities. That is, they are municipalities, inter-municipal communities, they are not government money. Mr. Deputies, in this particular case, the difference is that in the context of the reprogramming work of the Community funds, which occurs regularly, the Ministry of Territorial Cohesion, in conjunction with the Ministry of Culture, understood that in this summer and for the next 18 months, it was important to strengthen the financial capacity that municipalities should have precisely to contract and finance artistic projects in their regions. That is why it is called « Cultural Programming in the Network », because it will support projects, which implies that municipalities and artistic structures present projects to be financed. In fact, I take advantage of your question to leave a challenge to all the municipalities of all parties so that they do not let this notice of Cultural Programming in the Network. It is EUR 30 million which is essential, on the one hand, to support artistic structures in all regions and in all municipalities and on the other, so that, from this summer onwards, all Portuguese in all corners of the country, either in the most remote village or in the urban centre, have cultural programming from which they can participate in the coming months. This is fundamental for the country, it is fundamental for the regions, and we all have to take this opportunity. Therefore, I leave this challenge, so that all municipalities can present projects to this line of cultural programming online and that these EUR 30 million are all invested in cultural structures throughout the country so that everyone can participate culturally, regardless of where they live. I leave one last note, not to run away from the House of Music issue, which has already been put to me several times. I have always said this and I will say it again: the questions concerning the House of Music have been put in the public space — and well! — by workers who understood to disseminate the situation that existed there and that they lived. From the moment these situations were made public, two things occurred. First, there was the initiation of the Labour Conditions Authority's investigation and second, a set of hearings which this Parliament has been holding within the Commission. I think it would be quite disrespectful on the part of the Government, so I will say if I were to anticipate the one who will become the report of the Working Conditions Authority - which was indeed heard yesterday in this Parliament - and the work of Parliament itself. So what the Minister and the Government are waiting for is precisely the conclusions of both the Act and the hearings. More: over the course of this time, and to make it clear, the Minister or the Government, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, have never known exactly what the situation was.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u83	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Minister, until you have the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. We never stopped knowing and articulating. Moreover, with regard to situations of « retaliation », as was said at the time for some workers, there was an intervention by the Minister in order to warn that this was unacceptable. That's exactly what was done. Now, this can be done without being in the public square, giving answers to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u85	Mrs. Members, having completed the second round of requests for clarification, we will move to the closing stage of this urgent debate required by the PSD Parliamentary Group on the current state of culture in Portugal. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mrs Graça Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, I wanted to leave two or three final notes. On the one hand, on the subject of the PSD propose this urgent debate at the time when this House is discussing the Supplementary Budget and when it is under discussion what will be the position of the various parties in relation to the Government's proposals which total a budget boost of EUR 70 million for culture. This is when, for the first time, a line of social support is placed in a budget, plus the social security line, which will be allocated by the Ministry of Culture and when, also for the first time, it is placed in an Budget to supplement the commitment to work on the Statute of the Artist and to respond to precariousness. History is very important, because in 2011 this Parliament discussed precisely the Statute of the Artist and also approved an amendment to the 2008 Act. How did the PSD vote? He abstained. This is exactly what we're waiting to see: what's going to happen from here forward with this Supplementary Budget and what's going to be the PSD position. By the way, I remember Mr Pedro Cegonho's words, because I also brought a block—I always go with blocks—and mine also leaves here empty, with zero ideas from the PSD for culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Zero! Not one! So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, history helps us to understand and to see what the future can be. Because, in fact — I really want to highlight it — the future is never a blank page, it is the chapter of a story, it is the new chapter of something we have already been writing. The future that the PSD points to culture is no different from the past that it left us when it was in government, when it made extraordinarily hard cuts and, at the time, with a huge impact on cultural fabric. This was seen in the way that was the period for cinema, arts, RTP ( Portuguese Radiotelevision ) and Lusa ( Portuguese News Agency ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u87	What about the height pandemic? The Socrates pandemic? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is why it is important to remember history. History teaches us what the future will be. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the whole, what this debate reveals is that in fact, the Government has presented to this House responses to the crisis — public health crisis, economic crisis and social crisis — which points to a different future. But, above all, this debate turns out that, when the time comes to discuss issues such as the status of the worker of culture, the need for, in 2021 — I am talking about the future — to have a plan to relaunch the economy and social activities and how culture and creative areas must take place in this plan, we will all wait to see what position the PSD will have. I hope, Mr President, very sincerely, that at that time the PSD has a lot more ideas than it has brought here and that, above all, it has no plan to remove the culture from the place it should have: at the heart of any economic recovery strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u89	Notice, note!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u90	It is in the crises that one perceives the priority that each party gives to culture. In the crisis, Mr President, culture must be the first sector to be supported.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u91	But it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u92	You know, Mr, when, for the first time in this Parliament, an Supplementary Budget is discussed with a budget of EUR 70 million, which adds to the 2020 budget, Mr President. Members call for an urgent debate. And why? Because of ideas they have zero and therefore they have to try to keep a smoking curtain on what the government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u93	What about the 15 million? He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u94	To close the debate, Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u95	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : At the end of this debate, there are some assurances. The first is that the PSD went well when it promoted this debate with an urgent nature, because the situation in the cultural sector is deeply dramatic and requires serious discussion and immediate and effective responses. The second certainty is that, with this debate, it is demonstrated once again that the Ministry of Culture has never been able to meet the main challenges of this sector, which has become even more evident with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The third certainty is that effective and immediate measures are needed to ensure the survival and human dignity that cultural professionals deserve, that guarantee working conditions and the exercise of their professions, now so threatened. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the cultural sector remains the most affected — this is a finding recognized by all, including by the Minister — and it is undoubtedly the most time to return to normality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after this debate, protection cannot continue to ignore the seriousness of the situation in which cultural professionals and structures are present. Culture is in a state of emergency and so, Minister, it is your duty, it is your obligation to take care of the cultural sector of our country. It is time for the Ministry of Culture to leave the height of its coldness and arrogance and look at those who are in the perimeter of its sphere. [[PSD applause.]] Let us hope that, after this debate, it will be possible to do what Mr. Prime Minister promised as soon as he arrived at the government: put culture at the heart of government policies. Mrs. Minister, it's time to stop treating culture like something precarious and minor. Do what you said you liked to do when you took possession: solve problems that are to be solved. So far, you haven't solved any! It is time for your Ministry to hear the voices of a sector that is experiencing a dire situation. It's time to take these voices into account! It is time, and it is already late, for the Ministry of Culture to move forward with the expected and due answers, because, already said Plato, there is no one, even without culture, who does not become a poet when love takes care of him. Mr. Minister, do as some of your colleagues in the government, who had a completely different attitude from yours: they fought to safeguard the activities and protect the professionals who are in the areas they protect. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to the already evidenced assurances, if the holder of the culture folder continues in the record that has been maintained throughout his mandates, persisting in this inaction, in the culture of taste, in the culture of friendship, another certainty will become evident: that his Ministry of Culture is a non-existent ministry, without any political weight in the socialist government, contrary to what has been promised, and that it will remain for history, certainly not for good reasons. It will remain for history because it is the ministry of disability, the ministry of cultural nullity! In a short time, the cultural sector stopped believing in Mrs. Minister of Culture, and also the PSD! This feeling is not from today, before, and much, the pandemic crisis that affects our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after this debate, will the most hopeful and restful cultural professionals remain? Certainly, the answer was guessed. The answer is no! Therefore, the PSD is even more concerned about this debate. Mrs. Minister's answers : zero! I'm finishing up with one more certainty. If there is no guardianship, the necessary perception of the cultural sector, something is more and not culture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u96	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. I have the floor by the Government, the Secretary of State for the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without prejudice to the detailed discussion of this proposed law in the field of specialty, where, of course, there is availability to discuss and evaluate adjustments to it, I stress, firstly, that the proposed amendment to the Budget Framework Act ( LEO) does not have an impact on the entry into force of important amendments provided for in the 2015 Act. For example, the adoption of financial accounts for the purposes of accounting in 2021 on the 2020 Budget or the presentation of the State Budget Report for 2021, with amendments to the maps of additional information. The proposals submitted maintain the essence of the structural changes to the 2015 Budget Framework Act, based on predictability, but now strengthening the transparency of the budgetary process and the quality of information associated with the decision-making process of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. Additional information requirements are proposed, with the introduction of new elements to be made available by the Government, such as quarterly information on multi-annual structured investments or the annual provision of the framework of invariant policies, with information for the current year and beyond, allowing knowledge to the Assembly of the Republic of departure before the presentation and discussion of the State budget. On the other hand, and, above all, in support of the decision-making by the Assembly of the Republic of measures with budgetary impact, strengthening the credibility of the proposals submitted, they are expected to be accompanied by their quantification by independent entities. With this proposal, some flexibility is also introduced in the discussion and approval of the State budget as regards the multiannual expenditure framework. An adjustment is made to the timetable for the production of effects of the Budget Framework Act as regards the model of budgetary programmes, with the proposal for the creation of a pilot programme, as shown by international experience. Finally, I stress the adjustment of the deadline for the submission of the State budget. We propose the date of 10 October so that it is possible to incorporate relevant indicators for the preparation of the State budget, which are made available only at the end of September, on national accounts, by competent authority. There is also an increase in the period for discussion and voting of the State Budget Act in the Assembly of the Republic, from the current 45 days to 50 days. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes spoke by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u99	Mr President, Secretary of State for the Budget, Mr. Members: I begin by welcoming the Secretary of State for what I have interpreted from her speech, i.e. the fact that the initiative goes down to its committee without a vote and expresses our commitment that by the end of July we should be able to complete the procedure, because the law, as it is objectively not. I heard the Secretary of State and I read the report from UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) and it gives the idea that we are talking about another bill that is not the one that entered the Assembly of the Republic. This was a lightning proposal, which entered on 17 June and we are already discussing today, whose argument was that supposedly adjusting the timetable and adding additional requirements. But that is not what deals with the proposal that you have entered the Assembly of the Republic. So I'm going to start by highlighting a positive point. I think it is very important, when there are differences in the macroeconomic scenario of the European Commission, that there is an obligation to justify these differences. That is positive, but on the positive points, unfortunately, I will have to stay here. On the negative points, I have some difficulty speaking, because I don't know where to start. But perhaps I will start with the UTAO report, which says that if this proposal comes into force as the consequences are as follows: decreditation of spending limits; elimination of forecast financial statements; backwardness in budgetary and financial transparency; lack of accountability; introduction into the legislative process. Because I don't have much time, I'm going to give three examples. The first relates to the information that the government was obliged to provide regarding tax benefits and that it will no longer be. The second example is the multi-annual framework for public expenditure, which had ceilings and limits that should not be exceeded. The Government's proposal — and UTAO recognises it — basically says that these can be overcome for reasons of force majeure at any time of the year. The third example that I am going to give has to do with the UTAO proposal to analyse all proposals that will come into the House with an impact on expenditure above 0, 01 %. I repeat again: the Government believes that all proposals that enter the Assembly should be examined by UTAO. Let us see, for example, the State budget which, in half a dozen days, had 1332 amendments. The Government wants UTAO and its five technicians to examine 1332 proposals for amendments in half a day, without, of course, counting on all the initiatives they make every day in the Assembly of the Republic. Question : will this be to block the work of UTAO? Is it any retaliation for legitimate criticism that UTAO has done to the opacity and lack of data dissemination, as it still happened in the Reforming Budget? I hope that is not so, because we have several statements by the former Minister of Finance Mário Centeno, who accused UTAO of being illegitimate. I hope this is not the result! The last criticism is the lack of foundation, because we do not know the reasons that have led to an internationally praised law as is the case with the 2015 Budget Framework Act, which is the cornerstone of national public finances, to be completely torn apart without us being able to know, at least, what reasons for doing so. So the law, as it is, doesn't work! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u100	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This 'liberal minute' starts with a phrase that you will not hear me say often, namely, Antonio Costa was right. The new Minister of Finance is indeed the continuity of the previous Minister of Finance. What is proposed here today is the continuity of an intransparent way of managing public accounts. [[PS protests.]] The Government wants to postpone the implementation of the Budget Framework Act, a law approved by the Assembly in 2015 to enter into force in 2019. The then Secretary of State of the Budget John Leon had postponed to 2021 and now wants to postpone to 2023. I don't know if you're looking at the pattern here! Is that what you're talking about? This Budget Framework Act was conceived as a way to increase transparency, scrutiny and accountability of those who manage taxpayers' money and it does not occur to me, especially after the shameful opacity of the Supplementary Budget, no need more quickly. A supplementary budget which does not have the costs of the various measures, whether to reduce the previous visas of the Court of Auditors or to ask for a blank letter to change the headings to its bel-prazer well illustrates the importance of this Budget Framework Act. It must be because it is so important that the government wants to postpone! The government wants to postpone the adoption of budgetary programmes, or delay the implementation of the State accounting entity, or delay the production of interim financial statements and eliminate forecasts. All that would help the Portuguese to know the cost—and the benefit—of each measure, to evaluate the performance of each public service, to respect the limits of expenditure, namely the state's capital situation and to take responsibility for whoever manages its money, all this is proposed by the Government to postpone. But don't worry, this transparency doesn't matter at all when we have the Champions here in August.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u102	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members:To the issue of the adjustment of deadlines for the implementation of amendments to the Budget Framework Act, Bill No. 37 / XIV / 1. a, of the Government, seeks to introduce unacceptable limitations to the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic in the budgetary procedure. It would suffice to provide for the addition to the LEO provided for in Article 4. to justify the vote against the CFP to this bill. In this addition, the Government says that « the analysis of the proposed legislative initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, including the amendments tabled in the budget of the State, with potential impact on revenue or expenditure in future budgets above 0, 01 % of the expenditure(...) is preceded by a technical study, which would be carried out by UTAO and would include « the indication, in a framework of budgetary neutrality, of which would be the corresponding revenue ». In addition to the imposition of this technical study and the concept of budgetary neutrality, in another article, the bill states that "the binding limits by organic basis...", i.e. the map of the Budget, «... may be amended by the Assembly of the Republic (...) including in the state budget approval, if they are compensated for equivalent changes within the limits of other basic tasks". The Government therefore intends to limit the discussion of the State budget in the Assembly of the Republic, obliging each of the parties' proposals to have budgetary compensation and to require a prior study to prove it, in the case of proposals with more than 0, 01 % of expenditure. Mrs. Members, recently, the Government has shown its temptation to condition the discussion of the budgetary procedure which, in accordance with the Constitution, is an allocation by the Assembly of the Republic, using legal opinions entrusted to its objectives. It is not by chance that, at the same time as the law-work is mentioned to try to condition the debate on the Supplementary Budget, at the same time that a presidential veto introduces the unacceptable idea that there can only be the approval of a measure if the Government agrees, this bill is seeking to limit the political initiative of the parties and the Assembly of the Republic. In addition to these aspects, we do not follow the consecration in the law of the structural budget balance, which has been used to impose restrictive budgetary policies. We also do not accept that we seek to give more powers to the Council of Public Finance, a body created by the PSD/CDS government to justify its policy of burned land sponsored by the troika and that the cover of supposed independence has served to cover the basic options of the right-wing policy that the PS governments have pursued. We are in favour of increasing the information contained in the budget proposal, although we agree that the investment framework reflects only investments worth more than 0, 01 % of the expenditure, which represents a regression towards the detail of information containing a map such as the PIDDAC ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ). As for the delay of deadlines for the implementation of LEO, we have nothing to oppose. We do not accept that, on the basis of this need, there will be conditions for the budgetary procedure and for the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic, and we will therefore vote against this bill if it is to be voted on. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u104	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the Budget Framework Act and I believe that anyone who has read the UTAO report on this amendment will be very anxious, because in fact this Ministry of Finance and this new team are not just a team of continuity, I would say that it is a team of continuity even with new tics of opacity and authoritarianism that are manifestly unacceptable. In good time, therefore, the request has come for the bill to go down to its committee, without a vote, because, in fact, if it does not go down without a vote, I suspect it would not go down at all. Availability to work will certainly have, but availability to, the horse mackerel, we will be approving laws that are fundamental and that fall within the scope of all budgetary and public finance activity in Portugal for the next few years we will not have, especially when the PS was trying for all means 15 days ago — even with some success, I must say — delay processes that are in the center of expertise. This is a little a la carte. In other words, the processes that do not interest the Socialist Party are drawn from the Committee on Budgets and Finance — look, the supervisory processes have been dragged down for three years in the past legislature — the processes that interest the Socialist Party and which are, above all, to introduce opacity and mismanagement in the Portuguese public finances there is no longer a problem and must all be approved in two or three weeks, especially when the processes of the depth of the initiative under discussion. In the proposal for a law, there are two amendments which seem to me to be deeply worrying. The first has to do with the end of planning and responsibility. What this law does, and not just delay, is to introduce amendments to the 2015 Budget Framework Act and generally ends responsibility. What we agreed in this House of the Republic is that there would not be a good management of public finances without the responsibility of the various leaders, and that is done with a budget for several years, with ceilings for several years, that the leaders are responsible not only for respecting but also for the results they achieve with them. If we end this principle and enshrine the principle that everything can be changed at all times, that means that in the end no one is responsible for anything and there is always a bad tape, which is the Minister of Finance. I don't know if this reminds you of anything, but that's exactly what we want to avoid! The other question concerns the accounting of the measures. In contrast to what I have heard many say in this House, I do not, in principle, disagree that there is an accounting and evaluation of the budgetary impact of the measures, especially of measures in the State budget. I make only two comments. First of all, if we are going to have this debate in our specialty, we will have to ask ourselves which means of strengthening UTAO, because otherwise it will not be possible to make this accounting. Second, I leave a question in the air: if it was not possible for the Government, in this Amending Budget, to count even what it spent on the emergency period and how much it is planning to spend on the stabilization period, if it was not able to quantify virtually any of the measures that come to the PEES, I would like to know how it is now that it is UTAO to make that accounting and to account for the parties' proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u106	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Secretary of State brings us today a proposal which essentially aims to strengthen transparency; however, we all know how the government has very little to do with what the Council of Public Finance says, for example. That is why it is somehow ironic to bring here a proposal which apparently reinforces the Council of Public Finance, but we already know how it has been treated. More serious: there is still a white card for the transfer of expenditure between budget headings in organic missions without any justification. The Government shall be free to make amendments within the budgetary framework which must not be approved by this House. Is there greater discretion? That's what the PS comes here to ask us. But the most serious of this proposal is to request, or request, UTAO to make for each initiative proposal with an impact of more than 0, 01 % of the Product a technical study. This is a retaliation to UTAO. In fact, the same UTAO that has been criticised by the previous Minister of Finance and the current in relation to the criticisms he has made is now flooded with bureaucratic work, when the Government knows very well that this will divert UTAO from its main objective, which is to analyze the major proposals of the Plan and to criticise government action.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u108	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u109	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only this: this proposal wants to strengthen transparency, but it is no more than a white letter to the Government, which we will not accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u110	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u111	Mr President, I begin by leaving a note on the case in the field of specialty. Obviously, Members and Members are always available to try to ensure that these processes are discussed as quickly as possible and with quality. However, we must not fail to note that this tendency to present at the end of the legislative sessions diplomas with this level of importance, which requires an accelerated legislative process, should be a little careful and until there is some attention on the part of the Government, because we have to be able to discuss the processes with quality. Nor can I fail to note the discrepancy, depending on the interest of the Government and the Socialist Party in this matter, between the care that is available to pass some diplomas in the field of specialty and then the rush with other diplomas, which would require much more time and much more reflection. The debate on this diploma has been long, there has been a lot of controversy, particularly with regard to the deadlines and procedures, in particular those relating to the imposition of European rules and which, in our view, make little sense, condition and are an interference in the budgetary procedure, which should comply with democratic conditions and rules. Two examples: one is the very concept of a structural budget balance, which is such a transparent, transparent concept that no one can calculate it unless it is the European Commission itself with its algorithms. So what is meant is to put the government in the hands of a concept that does not control. The other example is the Public Finance Council, which has no democratic legitimacy and has immense power over the budgetary process. As if this were not enough, the Government is now proposing a third interference in the democratic process, which is to put UTAO to the political judgment of legislative proposals. Because it is obvious that there is a political judgment in this analysis, thus conditioning a democratic process to a technical pseudo-evaluation. This is how democratic processes are conditioned, it is imposing technical pseudo-assessments on the process of discussion and evaluation, which is purely political. Yes, there may be technical advice, but those who make decisions are not technical bodies, they are political bodies, they are the parliamentary groups represented here. This attempt at interference in the budgetary process takes place after a very creative interpretation of the Constitution, in which the Government itself and the Socialist Party also try to condition a reformive budget process. There is therefore an attempt to condition budgetary and democratic work by imposing, once again, pseudotechnical or legal interpretations a little too much, when, in fact, the government's concern should be another: that of bringing more transparency and more data available to people in general, UTAO and the Assembly of the Republic. To finish, I give just one example: the controversy of teachers and the salary increases of teachers. The Government has never given the data either to UTAO or to the Assembly of the Republic to be able to discuss this process transparently, it has manipulated the debate by confusing the data, mixing raw data with liquid data so that no one can make a serious discussion and now it has proposed that the proposals be submitted to UTAO, when in fact it is the government itself that refuses to deliver the data that allow a clear, clean discussion among all of us on very precise proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u113	That's why, sirs. Members, against this type of interference in the budgetary procedure, in favour of more transparency and more data to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u114	Mr André Silva of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u115	Mr President, Secretary of State for the Budget, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we discuss another proposal for a revision law of the 2015 Budget Framework Act, which has the merit of introducing some - few - changes and clarifications with a positive sense and which deserve the agreement of the NAP. This is the case with the increase in information made available by the Government in the context of the documentary collection of State budget proposals, which will have to include, for example, the justification for differences between its macro-budgetary scenarios and those of the European Commission and information on unproductive loans granted by the State. This is an amendment that allows for better frame and analysis of budgetary policy choices. But there are aspects that deserve our concerns and I will mention only two. The first relates to forecasting the need for all initiatives with potential impact on revenue and expenditure to be subject to a technical assessment by UTAO. This proposal brings us, Madam Secretary of State, contradictory feelings. On the one hand, it is in line with the NAP's concern that there is a financial impact assessment of the proposals presented in Parliament, which brings budgetary responsibility and financial sustainability. On the other hand, however, the way in which the proposal is designed does not cease to sound like an attempt by the Government to interfere with the functioning of the Assembly of the Republic and the initiative capacity of Members and parliamentary groups. In addition, we know that with the resources available to UTAO today, it will not be possible to implement this proposal in appropriate terms — and I think you will have an understanding of this — and therefore, before considering its introduction, we must allocate to UTAO the appropriate means to ensure that this good proposal can be implemented effectively and does not sound to a 'roll law' on legislative initiatives or to an initiative that has no practical impact. Finally, the second aspect relates to the practical impermissibility of the introduction of a medium-term dimension in the management of public financial resources by the central administration and social security and the postponement of the implementation of the State Accounting Entity ( ECE ) and of the budget programming corresponding to the tasks of the organizational base, the innovations of the 2015 LEO and deserving of the praise of various national and international entities. As we know, these were reforms aimed at ensuring stability and predictability of spending appropriations and aligning the incentives of sectoral ministers with those of the finance minister around budgetary responsibility, which would focus on medium-term planning and structural reforms, so necessary to the country. The country and the right accounts will be lost with these imperabilizations and delays.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u116	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Budget Framework Act, as we know, defines the rules of the game for all subsectors of the Public Administration, central administration, local administration and social security, so all amendments to the Budget Framework Act must always compete for greater transparency and to improve the quality of public finances. In the view of the PS Parliamentary Group, this revision proposed by the Government brings good news and proposes innovations that need to be brought to the debate here. In the budgetary plans — i.e. the Stability Programme, the State Budget and even the Supplementary Budget — the Government includes its macroeconomic forecasts and compares its macroeconomic forecasts with the macroeconomic forecasts of other national and international bodies. in this review that the Government brings to the Assembly, the Government proposes not only to maintain this comparison but also to justify the differences in the forecasts made by the European Commission. And UTAO, in this regard, says that this is a "welcome" news. Therefore, a positive note for an innovation that the revision of the Budget Framework Act brings by the hand of the Government. Another innovation that values comes to the meeting of what is a claim by the Council of Public Finance and values up to its role because it becomes the Council of Public Finance to alert for recognition of the significant deviation from the medium-term objective. Another innovation is that the existence of an annual report by the Ministry of Finance on the scenario of invariant policies with the indication of the impact on revenue and expenditure is mandatory. Another innovation is that the Government will include in the State budget individualized information on live guarantees and loans granted by the State. Regarding this, UTAO says « good news ». This is extremely important, from our point of view, because we know that there are still many successive BPN, BES and BANIF vehicles, to whom State guarantees have been given, and thus we will have individualised information on each of these vehicles, as well as on the loans granted by the State to the Resolution Fund and also on the COVID credit lines, because all of them, as you know, have State guarantees of 80 % to 90 %. Another good news for Parliament and for the budgetary procedure of the State budget is that we no longer have 45 days to do the budgetary procedure and we have 50 days to go to the budget process — and even UTAO says 'good news' and calls for those five days to be reserved for the technical studies of UTAO. Finally, the central issue is that the Government proposes that its proposals for legislation can be quantified with the impact on revenue and expenditure, which is an innovation that has not yet been discussed here. Just as we also find it extremely important that the draft laws, for reasons of transparency and even for strengthening the information that must be provided publicly, tell us what is the budgetary impact they have on revenue and expenditure. It also seems very useful to us that the proposals for amendments to the State budget can be quantified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u118	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u119	This will enable those accompanying budgetary procedures — entities accompanying budgetary procedures and the general public — to know what is the impact of each project and of each proposed change in revenue and expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u120	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not have much time to clarify what is the proposal and the focus of the proposals for amending the Government's budget framework law — and we will have the opportunity to do so - in the field of expertise - I do not want to lose the opportunity to clarify two or three questions. There is, in fact, a very clear objective here to increase transparency, with an additional report of different information throughout the year — not only in the submission of each State budget but also in the course of the year — with different quarterly information at the end of August regarding the situation in the context of invariant policies. And we will have the opportunity to clarify and demonstrate that the process is intended to be much more transparent, with much more information, to be made available by the Government. A second aspect which I would like to clarify is precisely the quantification of the proposals. For example, 0, 01 of the Product is EUR 10 million. We are talking about proposals that have an impact of more than EUR 10 million. I believe any Portuguese would like to have that information. What is intended in relation to an independent entity is exactly the quantification of the measure—and not necessarily its assessment, its economic-budgetary assessment—to make this issue very clear in relation to the measures presented in the State budget. A third aspect is related to flexibility. The Budget Framework Act, in the draft in force, prevents, within the limits of the State budget, any proposed amendments which include expenditure. In view of the fact that, in April, the Law of the Great Options of the Plan with sectoral ceilings was adopted, this would not allow any budgetary change to be made within the budget of the State at any cost. And it is in this context that flexibility is being introduced, it is in this context that it is intended that, by maintaining the spirit of the 2015 Law, which is not at all being torn off, if you can introduce some flexibility, precisely because the context, economic, macroeconomic and policy measures to be taken, between April and October, may change. It is from this perspective that the proposals are being made. But, of course, we will have every opportunity to clarify all these issues and all the conclusions. And so far, all parliamentary groups will be able to read the law and understand what the proposals here are. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u122	The general debate on the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), we go to the overall assessment of Law Projects Nos 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Interpretation of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, clarifying its subjective scope of application, 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May and 420 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an independent mandatory assessment of the impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ). To present the PS bill, Mr.António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS presents today, in this House, a bill that has a unique and simple goal. Given the doubts that arise to the interpreter as to the definition of the subjective scope of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, which regulates public-private partnerships ( PPP ), it seeks to clarify which entities the legislator intended to include in the list set out in Article 2. the, in particular its application to municipalities and autonomous regions. These doubts and in this regard, for example, were not heard either by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or by the government bodies of the autonomous regions, so it is safe to say that it was never the legislator's objective to submit these entities to the legal regime approved by the Decree-Law defining the legal regime applicable to public-private partnerships. Otherwise, it would be admitted to violating the right of participation in the legislative procedure, which they were and are still today legally consecrated to municipalities and autonomous regions. Thus, by adhering to this Decree-Law an interpretative standard, this draft law of the PS is intended to clarify that the legal regime then approved by the PSD Government / CDS-PP does not apply to entities that are not expressly included in its scope—Article 2. the — as is the case with municipalities and autonomous regions. It is with this objective and framework that we urge the PSD Parliamentary Group, and all others, to work in the specialty that clarifys the position of the PSD, regarding us today, still in a certain way insufficient, because it is not understood that municipalities are not taken into account by the PSD in this matter. In fact, we even ask: Why does the PSD leave the Portuguese municipalities outside this legislative initiative? What is the real reason for this discrimination of municipalities against autonomous regions? We affirm that, because we believe that it is also possible to resolve, in addition to the question of autonomous regions, the situation of municipalities, with regard to various situations and circumstances of dubious interpretation and application of the law over time and that they do not have any correspondence with reality, namely, in the way of knowing which the legal regime applicable to public-private partnerships created between 2012 and 2020 and, above all, those which are currently in place and which either of their assumptions or of the rules of procedure for initiating, developing and amending them, or of their monitoring and monitoring, need to be clarified. Of course, the Portuguese legal doctrine on public-private partnerships has always assumed that PPP contracts did not, in their subjective scope, have neither the municipalities nor the autonomous regions. The law is only lacking to clarify this fact. And the bill that PS presents today definitely solves this issue in the law for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u124	To present the PSD bill, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative is very important because it allows us to affirm a reality that, 44 years later, still remains very unknown to the Portuguese. This initiative is very important because it values what is one of the most successful innovations carried out following April: the regional autonomy of Madeira and the Azores. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for a daughter of autonomy, like me, it is a great privilege to be able to participate in this process and in this debate of affirmation and deepening of regional autonomy. With our initiative, we intend to clarify, in a definitive way, the powers and competences of the autonomous regions with regard to public-private partnerships. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the PSD this is not just a question of semantics. For PSD this is not just a grammatical issue. For the PSD this is not even a purely interpretative issue. For PSD, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a substantial and fundamental issue. It is a matter of respect for a consolidated and affirmed reality through a constitutional dimension and through the political and administrative statutes of each of the two autonomous regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the history of the PPP regime is already conclusively that the diplomas never wanted to apply to autonomous regions. The issue of PPPs is not and has never been the subject of Parliament's reservation, competition or government. That is why the problem is not whether the decision of the PPPs concerns the Minister of Finance or the Council of Ministers. To define the model of how an autonomous region, whether or not it is a PPP, is a matter of specific interest of the autonomous regions, it is the matter of its own government bodies, it is the matter of the autonomous decision area of each of the two autonomous regions, a space that has to be safeguarded and clarified and which cannot be subject to interpretation or to cyclical majority. We are not, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a grammatical problem, but in the face of a constitutional problem. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our solution is balanced. It is balanced because it safeguards the fundamental issue and the normative design of an irreversible phenomenon such as regional autonomy. It is balanced because it does not exempt regions from cost-benefit analysis, cautioning the rigor and transparency of public-private partnerships at all stages. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, our initiative ultimately resolves and clarifys any doubts that might exist in this area. The decision to set up a PPP is the exclusive competence of the government bodies in each of the autonomous regions. The decision to set up a PPP cannot, of course, be in the hands of Lisbon or subject to any political orientation of the central government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u126	Madam Member, the Bureau records Mr António Gameiro's registration to make a request for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u127	Mr President, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, my question is very simple. I was a little dizzy with your intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u128	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u129	...because of two one: either Mrs. Deputy wasn't here or she didn't study. So, the PSD / Madeira Members voted in favour of the law in 2012, without any statement of vote in a blatant manner, and were they defending the Autonomous Region of Madeira at that time? Oh, my God! Where was regionalism at that time? Where was the defense of Madeira's regional autonomy at that time? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's true to ask you, but you're serious? So, at the time of the parliamentary assessment of the decree-law, which had resolved this issue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u130	It was so much worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u131	...that VV. Ex.s voted in favour, were you defending Madeira's interest? What do I look like? Madam Member, the respect which, as a jurist colleague, I do not deserve to let me go any further, but I must ask you, Mrs. Member: how can you imagine this is a question of constitutionality? What about constitutionality? Oh, my God! The Republic must define the PPP rules for the whole country, as defined by the Constitution by the Regional Finance Act. It is not because there are the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira that the law is not in the Constitution. There is no standard enabling the extensive interpretation of the Constitution, as you mentioned here, Mrs. Deputy! It's better to study, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u132	In reply, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I was very clear. What seems to me is that the honourable Member is distracted and, perhaps, he has to look for the constitutional law manuals again. This is not an issue of interpretation and, Mr President, I think it is wrong for the PS, or it was wrong for the PS when there was a discussion on this subject, to use the autonomy of the autonomous regions to try to blackmail Parliament, to cover and mix different realities and that have a completely different constitutional treatment, which are autonomous regions and municipalities. We know that your party wants to use the autonomy of the autonomous regions so that it can cover up what it wants to do with the municipalities. But, honourable Member, this interpretation is quite clear, this initiative also has a very clear scope,... [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] ... this solution is balanced and, as I have had the opportunity to say, the question of applying to autonomous regions does not even arise, because we are in a matter of reserve, as I explained, and well. Therefore, we are on an issue which is the area of autonomy itself in the autonomous regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u134	Please conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u135	So there's no confusion here. We understand very well what confusion your party wants to do between autonomous regions and municipalities, but the PSD does not embark on this conversation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u136	You didn't read our initiative, did you?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u137	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public-private partnership contracts in themselves involve some problems that are not of today and that have passed through successive governments without being resolved. We have problems in the sustainability of the medium and long-term public accounts caused by the logic of "take now and pay afterwards" associated with it and which, in the medium term, brings an increase in the volume of charges, paying excessively the public record. For those who doubt these sustainability problems, it is enough for them to analyze the state budget report this year and Eurostat data on the value of the structures associated with road PPPs and will see that between 2019 and 2040 our country will pay for these PPPs three times more the value of the structures associated with it. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will pay EUR 15 billion per PPP whose infrastructure is worth only EUR 5000 million. I repeat, three times more! But apart from sustainability issues, we still have the Portuguese state bound up with ruinous clauses, such as those that subject the emerging disputes of these contracts to the arbitral way. Again, we have a source of damage to the public record, clearly in the EUR 661 million that cost in the first quarter of 2018 the applications for replacement of the financial balance made by road dealers. Finally, we have the problems of transparency and integrity of these instruments, obviously in the criticisms of the Court of Auditors in December, which pointed out that the Government does not carry out a permanent evaluation of PPPs and that it does not disclose reliable and complete information on revenue and expenditure from public and private partners. This adds cases and judicial investigations related to PPPs involving decisions of former executive, state-level and municipal political officers. The problems are many and it is clear from here that the path cannot be the smoothing of the controls and applicable rules. Solutions to PPP problems should pass through various levels of changes, one to the immediate, another to the future. In the future, and in time, we must be able to make a broad reflection on what legal regime of PPPs we want. The NAP will be for this reflection, since, contrary to other parties, we do not devilize this instrument, which will be useful when it means the provision of better, cheaper and more effective services to citizens and if they are accompanied by mechanisms that guarantee budgetary responsibility, rigour in cost-benefit analysis and effective scrutiny. At present, we know that we are experiencing a health, economic and social crisis that brings a shortage of public resources. That is why, more than ever, budgetary responsibility and a proper cost-benefit analysis are important. More than ever, we have to be able to avoid today's budgeting means pharaonic expenditure tomorrow, as happened with road PPPs. It is also urgent to ensure that expenditure manifestly imbalanced for public partners within the framework of road PPPs is, as in the troika times, renegotiated in order to reduce public charges incurred by the State or by the infrastructures of Portugal. As regards the renegotiation of road PPPs, the NAP proposal is presented and will be discussed in the specialty within the framework of the Supplementary Budget. Today, while complying with its electoral programme and seeking to ensure efficiency in the allocation of public money, the NAP brings to the discussion the possibility of strengthening cost-benefit analysis mechanisms, proposing that the conclusion of any new PPP must be preceded by a technical opinion of the Public Finance Council assessing its impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and certifying the economic and financial viability of the contract. The proposal is simple and, indeed, responds to an already identified problem. We are sure that the different political forces, which are more or less in favour of the use of this instrument, will be able to recognize that this additional mechanism will be beneficial to the health and rigour of our public accounts and, therefore, we hope that, in the context of discussion in the specialty, they will add their contributions to this discussion that we believe is relevant to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u139	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State does not know, nor does it have to know, civil construction. The State does not know, nor does it have to know, to maintain public works. The State does not have to own everything that is providing public services. The State must be able to define priorities, financial and public policy, in order to be able to deliver the best quality of service at the lowest cost to taxpayers, preferably in a low tax burden logic. And by now, the State has to be able to negotiate, firmly and transparently, in defence of the interests of people and not of itself. in this context, public-private partnerships can be a powerful tool for improving services and infrastructure. They may be, but they have not been, not at all, but in too many cases. Because the State is bad to negotiate or because it does not understand enough from a technical point of view or because it is too close to private interests. Economic private interests and political private interests, which ultimately confuse themselves. Or because these private interests used to live side by side with the state, creating the foundations of a genuine solidarity capitalism, which is the denial of the real market economy. The Liberal Initiative cannot allow compassion capitalism to take root even more and wants PPPs to be a tool for good tax money management, people's money. We will therefore make the various proposals available here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u141	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin with a previous point. It is true that there was PPP, road and not only, that they had and still have, more than they had, bad results, and I would say that this has to do with not their public-private character, but with the worst management and with the worst contractualization that the State has done. It is also worth noting that these PPPs were made under a regime that was profoundly changed in 2012. With this change in 2012, many of the concerns I heard here have ceased to make sense because, in fact, the regime has become substantially more demanding. That is what the Socialist Party has tried to change, that is what was analyzed here in Parliamentary assessment and that is what determined the cessation of the validity of a decree of law that was, in fact, to lighten, say so, what everyone in this House thinks should not be lightened, which is the cost-benefit of public-private partnerships and their rigorous analysis. Therefore, projects such as that of the NAP, which has introduced an analysis of the Public Finance Council, do not raise any objection to us, because they are in the direction of this greater rigour. Different things are PS and PSD projects. The PS project, and it is important that this is said here, does not concern the future, it is about the past and the present — from there being an interpretative standard — and it just says what many already consider to be implicit in the PPP regime, i.e. that it is not applicable, in certain matters, to municipalities and autonomous regions, as it already means overwhelming part of the doctrine. This is therefore an interpretative standard which will clarify the regime. On the other hand, the PSD project establishes something different: it excludes regions from the scope, but it has a caution which, to me, seems to make a lot of sense, which is to establish principles that PPPs have to obey, even in the regions. Therefore, from our point of view—and we have already said this here at the time when we proceed to Parliament-, it seems to us that this is the interpretation, but, as far as the regime for the future is concerned, we are open to discussion, so that once and for all, if we realize how far this regime applies or not, and municipalities and regions are, of course, different things. It is clear that it cannot be applied in the sense of government authorization, which would be absurd, but there are, in fact, some principles of rigour that must be applied both to municipalities and to regions, and that the CDS, in the specialty, will certainly not fail to propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u143	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PS intended to bring to the discussion an interpretative standard on Decree-Law No 111 / 2012, the so-called « decree-law of public-private partnerships ». According to the PS, its project aims to clarify that municipal PPPs and autonomous regions are excluded from that decree. The PSD intends to introduce the interpretation that only autonomous regions are excluded. The position of the CFP on public-private partnerships is known. We are against this regime, which represents a genuine bloodshed of public resources in favour of large economic groups, representing almost EUR 1500 million per year in the State budget. The reality is giving reason to this position of the CFP against public-private partnerships. In health, irregularities committed by the private are accumulated, in order to maximize their profits, at the expense of SNS users. On the highway, multinational Brisa, Ascendi, Globalvia, among others, collect millions of euros and fabulous profits, at the expense of public record and users, seeking to benefit from scandalous contracts, the pretext of reducing traffic to which COVID-19 forced. In addition, the CFP has already submitted a proposal under the Supplementary Budget to ensure that private dealers are not benefited from these contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u145	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u146	Increasingly, PPPs become a source of public resources and a fertile ground for promiscuity between the public and the private. Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of the PSD Government / CDS sought to legitimize this ruinous PPP model with the supposed strengthening of control mechanisms on it. But there is no remedy to mask the background problem of PPPs. It is that their existence will always be harmful, from the moment that private entities, which aim to obtain profit, are held responsible for public services which must be guided by another logic, to serve the people. In view of the fundamental position against PPPs, we will not vote in favour of any of the initiatives in question. On the other hand, it seems obvious to us that the PPP decree does not apply to local power or to autonomous regions. Only an abusive interpretation of the decree may lead the Court of Auditors to consider that this decree applies to local authorities and autonomous regions. The CFP will never cease to defend the autonomy of the democratic local power and regional autonomy of the autonomous regions. We believe that the PS proposal is extemporaneous, because the interpretation given to the decree-law is the one that already derives from the diploma itself, without the need to introduce this rule. In fact, there is no other possible reading of Article 2. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u148	Therefore, on the part of the CFP we will not vote in favour, because we are, in principle, against PPPs and against this decree-law, which has only served to legitimize them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The debate we are having here today has to do with the PPPs exactly, and it is a debate that is not new in the Assembly of the Republic, just as it is not new the position that the Left Block has taken on several times, indeed, from the beginning, when it began to use this model, on the PPPs. We have already had the opportunity to hear from several benches here, which, more or less, we believe there are failures in PPP processes and that everyone is guilty — the state is guilty, because it does not negotiate well or because management is poorly done — but, in fact, there is no serious discussion about what the real problem is. And the real problem is that the PPP model is, by itself, ruinous to the state. Since the beginning, it has been built to be ruinous to the state, and this not only happens in Portugal, many other countries have the same problem. But, in fact, in this discussion, we are sick of not wanting to discuss the basis of the problem, which is the PPP model itself. That is why, over the years, even though more renegotiations have been made, as Mr Pan pointed out, they have also been ruinous to the State. As much as we want to improve this model, it has no way of being improved, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This model has to be removed from our legal order, because, as has already been mentioned, and the Left Block has - so many times, on health PPPs, on road PPPs - is a public money ice cream, which has no solution, except for the purpose of PPPs. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to the PS and PSD proposals, I must say that the power of autonomy is not at stake, whether the municipalities or the autonomous regions. What is at stake here is to remove forms of scrutiny from a model which, in itself, has very few forms of scrutiny, which sometimes opens the door to illegalities, but also to abusive ways of using the public record. On the proposal that the NAP brings here, realizing what has been explained by Mr André Silva, the truth is that it maintains the model that exists. And it's not because we're going to add you another audit, another report or another study that we're going to have guarantees that the public record doesn't go wrong. on this subject, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no half-term, there can be no half-discussion: the PPP model has to end in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u151	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, what brings us here today to the discussion are two very different models of understanding what we believe to be the way to catalyze public investment in Portugal. The NAP brings us a proposal that seeks to put the Public Finance Council at the heart of this process, which is legitimate, since today we have under investigation EUR 836 million spent by the State in PPP. More: PPPs are the biggest symbol of failure in justice. Today we have a case of 10 years, in which the defendants have recently been formed and involving some of the most complex PPPs that exist in Portugal. Therefore, along with the model of the Public Finance Council, there was a need to simplify procedures. In fact, this has already been indicated, either by the Court of Auditors or by the Public Ministry itself, in several investigations which have been carried out. But it is also necessary to say the following: those who say permanently that PPPs do not serve anything, that only serve to save public money...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u153	Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u154	... should look at what is happening in the other countries of the European Union, to see and indicate one or two that do not have public-private partnerships. Of course we have one or two that do not have, but it is not right in the European Union, it is more in South America and other similar continents, and we all know the level of development that they have achieved. Just look at Braga’s hospital, Loures’ hospital and many others to realize the importance of PPPs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u155	Oh, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u156	But, as there is a blind ideological sectarianism, it is more important to give action to this sectarianism than to benefit public services and increase public investment in Portugal. That's what happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u157	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u158	The way is very simple: look to the side, to Spain and France ; look down, to Venezuela and Bolivia. That's our difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u159	Ah, the Arrival also likes PPP! He likes it, he likes it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u160	To close this debate, Mr António Gameiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS initiative, as we have stated, brings a benefit and clarifys the situation of autonomous regions and municipalities in relation to the legal regime of public-private partnerships. It is clear that the PSD bill leaves out the municipalities, and we do not understand the justification. With regard to autonomous regions, we understand the non-application of the law, but it is not clear why the law should apply to municipalities, since the PSD and CDS government itself in 2012 did not take this into account, did not listen to them, did not negotiate that was due under the law, having made clear the spirit of the legislator. The law of 2012 was important, we recognize it, because it brought some morality to the process of public-private partnerships, brought a regime and a unit of follow-up to this same regime and model of partnerships. Public-private partnerships are an important tool in public management, but this requires that there is, in fact, a very rigorous study of their conditions and their assumptions, so that there are no Leonine clauses in favour of private persons, always against the public sector. It is necessary and required that there be a follow-up to this technical unit, with published reports, and also discussed by this House every year and, finally, that there be a monitoring of the bodies of all these partnerships either by the higher control institution of the Court of Auditors or by internal control. I believe that it is certainly not in Bolivia and Germany that the paradigms of this issue are. This issue has to be adapted to the reality of each country, and we must adapt it to Portugal, with requirement, with truth and with verticality. And it will be in a balance position that we will then be available to find the best solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u162	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the joint debate, in general, of the Bills Nos 254 / XIV / 1. a, 270 / XIV / 1. a and 420 / XIV / 1. a. Let us now proceed to the joint assessment, in general, of Law Projects No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners, 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. IRS Code 426 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of social security response capacity and 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. o. To present the PSD bill, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD is once again presenting a legislative initiative to redress tax injustices against pensioners. Mrs. Members, delays in processing and payment of pensions have been increasing in recent years in a worrying way. In the face of the government's failure, citizens wait for months and sometimes years for the processing and payment of the pension that is due them. It is an unfair situation, which seriously harms the lives of families, especially the beneficiaries of lower pensions, and which the PSD has denounced by various forms and means, urging the Government to resolve it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to delays in the processing and payment of pensions, which harm thousands of pensioners, there is another serious problem that these delays are causing. It is that the State, in late payment, pays pensions only once, which means that the taxpayer is subject to an IRS rate higher than that which would be due, i.e., the value that is paid to the pensioner is less than the amount he is entitled to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u164	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u165	This is a state behavior that we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u167	In addition, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that, as a result of this situation, there are many pensioners who lose the opportunity to access social support that is due them. This, for the irresponsibility of the state! These are injustices that we cannot tolerate or accept. Furthermore, the PSD has never complied with these injustices committed against pensioners. That is why in 2019, at the initiative of this parliamentary group, an amendment to the IRS Code was adopted so that the pensioner would receive the value that is due him and not be harmed once again by the inertia and delays of the State, a legislative amendment which would put an end to this serious tax injustice. Unfortunately, that is not what happened. The Tax Authority, with the agreement of the Government, makes an interpretation, in our view, abusive of the law, thus continuing with this double penalty, refusing to return to pensioners the values that are due them. Therefore, the State has continued to delay the payment of pensions and to benefit from the same delay, with serious damage to pensioners! That is why the PSD once again presented a proposal for an amendment in an attempt to resolve the problem in the context of the State budget for 2020. However, the PSD proposal was rejected. And thus the parties that rejected this proposal continue to benefit those who do not fulfil their obligations, i.e. continue to benefit the State. Despite the constant warnings of the PSD and the Ombudsman, the Government persists in not solving a problem which it itself created and seriously affects thousands of pensioners. The truth is that time is passing and the situation is not repaired. The PSD Parliamentary Group has repeatedly been saying that it will not give up to see this serious tax injustice corrected, and that is why we are here again today with the introduction of a legislative initiative. What we propose is that, where the processing and payment of pensions are paid late for reasons attributable to the State, the Tax Authority should, informally, charge the income to the tax year in which they should have been paid. This amendment aims to ensure that there is no further doubt that past situations have to be corrected, which we know are many, and therefore the State must return the money it has been with unduly. We also propose that, where the delay in the processing of the pension is longer than 90 days, interest should be paid to the taxpayer at the legal rate in force. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. We regret that until today there has been no political will on the part of the Government and, in particular, the Socialist Party to resolve this serious injustice. But we hope that, finally, justice will be done today with thousands and thousands of pensioners. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u168	You have the floor to present the CDS-PP bill, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue we are discussing today has a lot to do with a question that has worsened significantly in recent years, i.e. the processing of pensions and the beginning of pension payments to those who, having finished their contribution career, having retired or retired, take months, and sometimes years, to start receiving their pension. This should be the first point of our reflection: what state is it that takes years and years, successively, part of the salary, income from work to Portuguese and that then takes months or years to return to them — it is not to pay them, it is to return to them — what was charged to them over the years, when they arrived at the time of their retirement or retirement? This state is not the State that the Portuguese deserve. This is a reflection that we all have to make, and that we have done, for example, in a hearing with the Ombudsman, on the guidance of the authorities of the State. Once again, the Tax Authority, when it is called to interpret a law, interprets it against the citizen, interprets it in this case against the pensioner. This is a mentality that makes no sense that continues to exist in the Public Administration. If we are dealing with the processing of pensions, if a problem has been identified, which was the delay in the processing of pensions, if this delay in the processing of pensions, which is already a problem for you, has a significant aggravating, which is the fact that, when these pensions are paid, all pensions of the period in which the pensioner has been waiting until the first time the payment has been made and this has fiscal consequences. The Ombudsman has alerted many times to this. The government could have solved the problem in the 2019 budget after Mrs. Ombudsman's warning, but it did not! Parliament replaced the Government, resolving this problem: it legislated in September 2019 on this matter, clarifying that obviously a pensioner cannot be harmed by being the State itself to prosecute him for a pension of more than one month, or sometimes more than one year, only once, and thus to see an income taxed within IRS that would often not be taxed at all or would be taxed at a lower amount. Therefore, with the legal legislation approved in this Parliament, everything would be resolved. It happens that the Tax Authority, as I said earlier, has decided to make an interpretation against the citizen, in favour of the State, saying that « good, this law prevails but prevails forward ; in what is behind it does not move». There were taxpayers who were lucky or privileged to have their process treated from September 2019 and those whose situation was already behind and who continued to have the same problem. That is why it is so that the political will of Parliament prevails and, above all, the interest of the citizen in the bureaucracy and in the empire of this bureaucracy, which often works against the citizen and which is not itself of a liberal democracy like ours, which we propose this initiative. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u170	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Delays and delays in the allocation of reforms and pensions, death benefits and other social benefits have been a matter which the CFP has put several times over several years. This is not a recent reality, but it is, unfortunately, a reality that has been dragged for many years and with profound negative consequences on the lives of workers, pensioners and families. These delays and delays mean, in many situations, the lack of income to meet daily expenses and needs. Many of those who ask for access to their reform and wait long months, sometimes more than one year, having situations where delays are longer than two years, especially in situations involving discounts made abroad, have their lives, in these waiting periods, marked by deep difficulties, because what guarantees their subsistence are the reforms and pensions that have not yet arrived. These delays mean the perpetuation of situations of great fragility and social vulnerability and, in addition to the worsening economic and social situation of pensioners and pensioners, they also have consequences on the tax level and on the taxation of pensioners' incomes, situations that matter whether they are resolved and that the CFP is available to deal with in the specialty. And if we have denounced these situations at various times and confronted the government with them, we do not fail to identify one of the main reasons behind these delays: the profound lack of means, in particular human resources, in social security. The Social Security Institute has experienced a significant reduction in workers over several years. In 2008 there would be more than 14 000 workers in social security. Between 2006 and 2015, around 50 % of social security jobs were destroyed. Between 2011 and 2015, the National Pension Centre lost one third of its workers. This bleeding of workers has led to a drastic decrease in the response capacity of social security services, with consequences for users—both in delays in the allocation of pensions and other social benefits, but also in delays in care and responses to citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u173	The answer to this problem is inseparable from hiring workers to social security services. And those who have recently been hired are far from what is necessary. The solution is not to put social security to pay interest on delays in the allocation of pensions. The solution is to ensure that there are no delays in the allocation of pensions! It is therefore necessary to hire more workers, strengthen social security services and ensure that they have all the conditions to perform their duties. It is in this sense that the CFP proposal goes: more workers for social security in order to ensure the replacement of workers who have left since 2008, and part of these must be affected by the National Pension Centre, considering the important role of the National Pension Centre in processing and monitoring the allocation of pensions and reforms and other social benefits. Measures should be taken to ensure that difficulties are overcome, in order to ensure that public social security structures ensure the payment of different social benefits, which meet the social rights of users within appropriate and necessary periods, as well as the full functioning of the computer system, as it is important to value the wages of these workers, to dignify their careers and to ensure better working conditions. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the realization of social rights, particularly through social security. And the existence of quality public services is inseparable from the existence of valued workers and in appropriate numbers to respond to needs. The CFP proposal contributes to resolving the problem of delays in the allocation of pensions and social benefits and for the State to assume its responsibilities in guaranteeing the right to social security. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u174	You have the floor to present the PS bill, Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents a bill to increase tax justice for Portuguese whenever there is a delay in the payment of pensions. Therefore, by focusing on the tax project, it is important to clarify in this debate and in the presentation of this project two dimensions: one, is the introduction of mechanisms for correcting tax justice itself; the other concerns the problems that lead to delays in the processing of pensions and the way we have come to combat it. With regard to fiscal justice, our proposal will have a very significant impact and will meet the legitimate expectations of many taxpayers in this situation, allowing the correction of pensions allocated in 2017 and 2018, paying less IRS, whose increase should not have been imputed to them. In 2019, we had already taken a significant step with an amendment to the IRS Code, which was unanimously approved and brought more fiscal balance, enabling the delivery of a replacement declaration so that income from pension payments could be charged to previous years in particular, in which they should have been paid, with a limit of five years. The problem is that the interpretation made by the AT services has not allowed to accept late value corrections before 2019, which penalises beneficiaries because, as the late amounts are added to the current year's income and not distributed by the actual corresponding years, taxpayers end up being more taxed. Therefore, by overcoming this problem, we present this project which fully clarifys with a transitional standard that the possibility of correcting declarations is also applicable to pension income paid or made available in 2017 and 2018. To this end, we have added a transitional rule to the law so that the possibility of correcting declarations is also applicable to pension income paid or made available in 2017 and 2018. This problem is solved, but we cannot ignore another dimension, which has to do with the reasons that have led to several of these delays, because we are aware that destroying and undoing is always much easier than building and doing. The PSD spoke in this debate in a non-operance, but this case and this problem reveals, yes, the risk of those who attack the State and its servers, demonstrating the importance of strong, qualified public services and with an adequate number of workers, responding to the functions and duties of the State. Between 2011 and 2015, they were sent to requalification by former Minister Mota Soares, over 700 workers from the Institute of Social Security. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u176	in this period, in its entirety, social security had a reduction of 3,000 workers. Some 25% of the jobs have been lost, many of them responsible for processing reforms. This was a huge slaughter in the capacity to respond to social security, but it was time to cut off the famous state fats which, as we see today, were vital organs of our state and of modern public administration, competent and valued. This loss was a bleeding that doesn't recover overnight. As the people say, they don't get eggless omelets. That is why, aware of this reality, the Socialist Party has come to reverse this cycle. We have invested in Public Administration : since 2015, we have strengthened social security with more than 1000 workers — more than 10 % of labour force — and in this legislature we have continued to strengthen not only human resources but also technological means. We did it with external competitive procedures, with internal mobility and under PREVPAP ( Special Regularization Programme of the Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ), also allocating several precarious workers to the National Pension Centre. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this, we managed to reverse the declining trend in the productive capacity of social security: the number of pensions allocated in 2019 exceeded by more than 37 % those allocated in 2018 and the completion of processes is about 20 % higher than the entry of new requirements, allowing to reduce expectations. This is the reality and it is important to remind you to understand the path you have taken, because it is also in respect of this direction of balance and trust that we will reversely solve the problem of so many citizens who have had undue increases in IRS due to the late payment of their reforms, which happened not because of uncertainty, but because of the ideological weakness of the services that process them. This is therefore a way we must continue to go — and I conclude, Mr President — with solutions that go through the structural strengthening of the capacity to respond to social security, and we expect those who have helped destroy to recognize the effort to rebuild and hire new workers, because it is with these workers that we will ensure the fair balance between rights and duties that is due to all citizens. This is resolved with more and better state, never with less and worst public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u177	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the signs that Portugal has been living under too much weight for too long and with too much importance of the State is the submissive resignation with which people have come to accept prepotent and unjust behaviors on the part of that State. The case of the Tax Authority is of the best — perhaps, I should say, 'one of the worst' — examples. Cases of discriminatory, abusive or unequal treatment of the tax in relation to citizens are abundant, but in most cases they have the possibility of recourse, despite the efforts of the Ombudsman. the tax is allowed to reverse the burden of proof to pursue taxpayers, which is not allowed, for example, to the judiciary to persecute corrupt. the tax is permitted to interpret the law, and the amendments that this House has already introduced, always in the way that less protects people, even the most disadvantaged. Something is deeply wrong with this system, in which the State is late because yes and whoever pays is the taxpayer. The injustice that is discussed here today has been identified for years, but it still needed several diplomas and hours of parliamentary discussion to be corrected. It may be that for once — in this particular case, pensioners — people can be treated by the State with the decency and respect they deserve. For a liberal, that will be a tasty victory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u179	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing how to get rid of an injustice that has been felt alongside a group of pensioners who, in recent years, due to delays in processing and payment of their pensions, have been penalized by tax, since, when they receive several benefits only once, have ended up climbing and being taxed at a higher rate than what was supposed to be. The Assembly of the Republic, with the approval of the NAP, approved at the end of the past legislature an amendment to the IRS Code seeking to curb this tax injustice, thereby ensuring greater justice for pension incomes for previous years. To this end, he introduced a rule similar to the one that existed for liquidation, thus preventing excessive retentions. The problem was that, by not explicitly cautioning that this amendment was valuable for the past, the Assembly of the Republic left room for the Tributary Authority to make a wrong literal interpretation and apply the amendment only for the future. Therefore, if the problem is solved for the future, we must also be able to resolve for the past, in order to cover at least the cases concerning the years 2017 and 2018, which is the most critical period. We will therefore, with our favourable vote, follow the initiatives of the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS, however, alerting us to the need for strict observance of the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity of tax law in the discussion in the field of specialty. But we must also remember that, as the Ombudsman told us at the hearing, and I quote, «the Constitution does not prevent the State from trying to improve the situation of its citizens». It is with this premise that we have to look at these initiatives, the premise that it is with the eyes of our fellow citizens, who have worked, made their discounts and are now experiencing their reforms, that we have to move forward these legislative initiatives. We must also mention the structural problem of insufficiency of human resources in the National Pension Centre, which was precisely what caused this tax injustice. This is a problem that the NAP has denounced and for which the resolution has been tackled, in the context of discussion of the State budget and parliamentary hearings. We must not fail to point out that this was a problem caused by successive cuts in social security personnel that have occurred in the last two decades due to political options of PS governments, PSD and CDS-PP, particularly aggravated during the Troika intervention period in our country. What we say here is objective and, to confirm it, it is only enough to look at the successive reports of activities of the Social Security Institute, which demonstrate that in 2004 this Institute had little more than 15 000 workers and that in 2015 it had little more than 7000 workers. We're talking about a decrease of 8,000 workers in 11 years. Although we are in a less favourable economic context today, this should not prevent us from turning a page, not only on austerity policies, but also on budget cuts. For this reason, the NAP will seek to follow these initiatives today by voting in their favour and leaving the challenge for structural changes that the National Pension Centre so much lacks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u181	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u182	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Today, several bills are under discussion that aim at correcting a gross tax injustice, because of course it does not make sense to force people to pay a tax out of their incomes, when this shift, this concentration of income that causes the tax to increase is not imputable to the pensioner, but results from the delays of the administration itself. The Left Block accompanies the concerns behind these legislative initiatives, but it is also important to say that delays in pensions do not only have tax consequences. Delays put people, especially those who have no other sources of income, in a state of need. It is a violation of the law and the guarantee of deadlines must be an objective, and indeed a legal imperative. But we must also ask, as has been done here, where do these delays come from, what is the reason for such long delays and delays. We know, and this is a fact, that it is impossible to process pensions without any workers at the National Pension Centre to process them. The truth is, in the period when the PSD and the CDS ruled, there was an unpublished rhombud in social security and in the National Pension Centre, which lost 40% of its workers. A National Pension Centre that during this period between 2011 and 2015 lost 40% of its workers is obviously a disrespect to pensioners, who needed these workers to get their pensions processed. It is true that, in the previous legislation, this absolute shortage of workers began to be reversed, with their hiring either through an external competition or through regularization within the framework of PREVPAP, but this is still very, very insufficient. In other words, there is still too much delay, which puts pensioners in a distressing situation. It will certainly not only be the Left Block Parliamentary Group, but all parliamentary groups will receive daily messages from pensioners who have been waiting for months to process their pension. That is why we say that the number of workers needs to be strengthened in fact, because that will only be at the root of the problem. We have also proposed other transitional solutions, such as the provisional automatic allocation of the pension, so that people are not without income. But in addition to these provisional solutions or the correction of injustices resulting from this delay, as is being proposed today, it is essential to strengthen the number of social security workers and strengthen the number of workers of the National Pension Centre. That must be the priority, and that is also our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u183	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u184	Mr President, these are important legislative initiatives, indeed, but the only thing that goes to the root of the problem is that of the Communist Party, precisely because it refers to the need for training in a greater response to social security. Social security is one of the most important institutions in the country and this environment in which we are walking has shown us exactly that. In a country where the national minimum wage is miserable, in which we have been living for a long time an unsustainable real estate speculation, in which there is unemployment and — perhaps more than unemployment — many jobs are absolutely precarious, we cannot pretend that we should not invest in social security and that we should not, with the utmost urgency, hire employees for the Social Security Institute. This rather than investing in public-private partnerships to assist a social state, in which this union does no more than absorb vast resources from a State which has the responsibility to ensure that no pensioner is several months, long months or a few years waiting for remuneration. It is also important to strengthen that a true democratic state needs to be a social state with a unique robustness and not a state that will swing successively and will invest a little more in times of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u185	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u186	I conclude, Mr. President. Obviously, this will require the hiring of employees. I therefore fully endorse the initiative of the Communist Party, precisely because it is the only one capable of responding to the slowness and delays in payment and, in particular, of giving the absolute guarantee that the most disadvantaged are not without what the State has the responsibility to guarantee them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u187	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u188	Mr. President and Mr. Members: What this Parliament brings today is very simple, is the correction of a terrible tax injustice, which has led pensioners, accumulating pensions for several years, to have a much higher cut in tax terms than they would have had if it were not that accumulation. That is to make pensioners pay for the delays of the tax machine. And that's unacceptable! The tax said he was holding hands and couldn't apply a retroactive law. What you do here today is fix that. But at the same time we must ask ourselves why in a country where pensions are the lowest in the European Union we still have this delay in terms of payment. For example, last year we had an update of 0, 7%, but with the rise of inflation, pensioners lost purchasing power. Where were the advocates of pension updating at that time? The pensioners have lost purchasing power! More: the reforms were increased by 0, 17 %, but the new pensions were cut by 15, 2 %. Where were those who were, and are on the side of the pensioners at that time? Yes, inflation was 1, 6 %, which means they lost purchasing power. Therefore, we cannot have that speech that we have to correct everything that happens with regard to pensions, but when the time comes of the State Budget and Supplementary Budget, be there to give the PS his hand in what he does about pensions. It's just that the Portuguese are starting to remember the last five years...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u189	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u190	...and there will be a moment when you will remember who, in fact, begged for such extraordinary increase in pensions, when you have only seen a real decrease in pensions. This must be corrected as soon as possible and it was important that, already in this Supplementary Budget, the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens would say how they would vote on the Socialist Party's issue that will have a direct impact on pensions. It is not always worth saying that if you want an increase in pensions, but when the time comes, you give your hand to the Socialist Party and its budgets. That can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u191	To close this debate, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to leave two notes. But before that, I cannot fail to respond to Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party to remind him that delays in processing and payment of pensions have increased exponentially — I repeat, exponentially — in recent years. Do you know who says it, Mr. Deputies? She is the Ombudsman herself. So I wanted to remind the Socialist Party that it is time, once and for all, to assume responsibility, because they are ruling since 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u193	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u194	It doesn't make any sense to be constantly charging responsibilities and not accepting your responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u195	All right! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u196	With regard to the two notes I wanted to leave, the first is to say that we are pleased that, finally and happily, there is an extended consensus and that they have come to meet the concern that the PSD has reiterated in order to remedy these tax injustices. In fact, we hope that now, in the field of expertise, we can definitely remedy this serious injustice against pensioners. The second point I want to leave is to regret that only now is this broad consensus and that in the State budget, the Socialist Party, in particular, rejected the PSD proposal, because if it had adopted it, the injustices would be repaired. at this time, two things could be repaired: pensioners would have already seen the return of the money owed to them and could already have access to social support, to which, at this time, because of the State, they cannot access it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u197	We will now begin the fifth point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill Nos 345 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of TAP and SPdH, 369 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Public control of TAP and SPdH, 419 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the use of public funds relating to the TAP for its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic and 430 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recovery of public control of TAP. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent months, the debate around TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) and civil aviation has gained centrality. This is a fundamental debate for the country and it is not just about an airline. We are talking about strategy for the Portuguese economy. We're talking about thousands of jobs, direct and indirect. We're talking about knowledge and technology. We are talking about political and economic choices. We are talking about decision-making on the public interest. And it is this decision that is absolutely urgent. currently there is an arm of iron between the government and private shareholders who are paralyzing and harming the TAP group. The consequence is that there is already an ongoing restructuring, without scrutiny, without strategy, without the government acting, in the wake of trade unions and workers' committees. But let's see what's going on with the workers and the workers. In TAP, hundreds of people were fired before the company resorted to the simplified layoff mechanism. At Groundforce, 1100 temporary workers were released until May, 147 people with term contracts were unemployed from yesterday's day, other hundreds have identical promises until October. While these redundancies occur, there are announcements from temporary workers exactly for the same service. We are talking about thousands of redundancies and reduction of workers' income, using the layoff mechanism. While private shareholders create smoke curtains, the government focuses its efforts on a negotiation in which the other party is not interested. In the middle of this, they suffer the workers of TAP and Groundforce and suffer the country from completely unacceptable executive management decisions, as was the case of reopening routes, which left several regions of the country out of the country, or from disinvestment in maintenance and engineering or from worsening the financial situation of the company. Only earns anyone who wants a small TAP or wants a totally private TAP. These are the choices that don't serve the country. That is why we say that a decision is so important. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is no longer feasible to watch all this and accept the inertia of the government. If the State does not intervene now, it may be too late. Historically, there are two fundamental errors committed in relation to TAP and Groundforce : firstly, the acceptance of European pressures over decades for an extremist model, which diabolicized public investments to protect the business of some privates; secondly, the insistence of PS, PSD and CDS on selling the company, at least since the end of the 1990s, forgetting its importance for the economy and its strategic role for the country. This process culminated in an absolutely ruinous privatization by the PSD and the CDS in 2015. Already the solution found by PS, in 2016, reported an essential error: the state has taken over most of the company's capital, 50 %, but did not remain in executive management, keeping the privates sending in a strategic company to the country. This error left private management free-wheeled, which led the company to a very complicated situation before the pandemic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is time to make decisions on TAP and Groundforce. It is indeed necessary for the government to assume its responsibility before the country, before thousands of workers. Taking on this responsibility is taking public control of both TAP and Groundforce.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u199	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u200	That is what we are discussing and voting today, which is not of any importance at all. If the state pays, you have to send. This is the only guarantee to defend public money and a truly strategic national vision for TAP. Mrs. Members, if we want a strong TAP, a real flag company and a strategic asset for the Portuguese and Portuguese economy, then let us be consistent and adopt the proposed nationalization today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u201	To present the PCP bill, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, what is at stake in this debate is the crucial importance of defending TAP, as a flag airline in our country and as an instrument of development and national sovereignty. For other parties, some more disguisedly and others more clearly, this debate is on the question of principle of having the state outside the economy, privatizing everything that moves and whatever the "god market" wants. For these parties, TAP is the least important of this debate and its destruction would be collateral damage. For the Government, the debate around the TAP is confined to options that can be equationd in support of the company, provided that the presence and control by private shareholders and follow the orders of the European Commission. It's a matter of priorities. Our priority is national interest. The profound deterioration of the financial situation of TAP, as a result of the cessation of its activity and the accumulation of the effects of private management options, requires the TAP to be recapitalized either to ensure its current commitments with workers and suppliers, or to ensure their future development. But TAP does not just need to be recapitalised by more than EUR 1200 million. It needs to be truly placed at the service of the country, to fulfil its role in territorial cohesion, in exports, in tourism, in linking with national production, in valuing the workers of the company, in sovereignty. The future of TAP cannot be resonated with the interests of private shareholders of the company, who have already proved unable to defend themselves, but can also not be at the mercy of the European Union's taxes and its decades-old agenda on the concentration of ownership in the civil aviation sector, on deregulation and on the degradation of labour rights. But what inevitability are these that determine that the State is only authorised by Brussels to defend TAP on condition that workers are fired, abandoned routes and air connections, regardless of any national development strategy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u203	And the government does that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u204	No, sir. Members, the problem of TAP and the national civil aviation sector are not workers and their rights, they are economic groups and their interests. What is urgent and indispensable is a plan to prevent the destruction of the TAP and to ensure its future, a plan that fully respects the rights of the employees of the company, ensuring their wages and returning redundancies, so that the TAP can fully respond to the needs of the country. But a central measure for the implementation of any plan is the full resumption of public control over the company. That is what we are proposing. in the same way, the SPdH / Groundforce, which ensures a part of the essential operation to the TAP, which corresponds to what has already been an integral part of the TAP and was privatized, will again have to be redeemed by the State, which at this time already supports, together with the workers, the bulk of the costs of the laid down layoff. in this case, it is not even credible that the Urban Group has the ability to support the investment necessary to save the company from insolvency. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, making TAP an appendix to any foreign airline would mean destroying it as a flag airline. The mobilization of public resources to clear your balance sheet and soon hand it over to a multinational would be a nameless crime that cannot happen. The country needs TAP and all the companies that are part of it. They can count on the PCP to defend the TAP and the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u205	To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Court of Auditors'audit of TAP's recovery of social capital — either reprivatisation or repurchasing — concludes that the last three governments, through which the PSD, CDS and PS, supported by the Block and the PCP, have already passed, did not seek the interests of the Portuguese, since, and I quote, «the successive contractual changes have aggravated the responsibilities of the State and increased exposure to the company's adverse contingencies ». I repeat : « they have aggravated the responsibilities of the State ». For example, after the partial reversal of privatization, the State had to return 220 million euros of ancillary benefits to private individuals in the event of the nationalisation of the TAP. Who bought this brilliant change? The current Prime Minister, Antonio Costa. This is just an example of the potential cost for taxpayers' portfolio. The current Prime Minister told the Portuguese that he was going to recover for the state most of the capital of TAP. But that's all you've recovered, because the potential costs for taxpayers have no recovery. TAP is today a sort of PPP that works badly, with private management and almost all public risk. In the name of transparency, good management of public accounts and the defence of Portuguese money, we cannot allow the use of public money in business relating to TAP, either in whatever form, without the details of this operation and the underlying plan being known and approved in the Assembly of the Republic. Some parties, from left to right from Left Block to PSD, have already proposed a similar logic for the New Bank case and there is no reason why it should not also apply to the TAP case. The Portuguese wouldn't understand that inconsistency. This is a proposal that we would rather not have to present, because we do not share the fascination of having a public aviation company. If some people have an emotional connection to the company, they invest their money, not Portuguese money. If some people have an ideological obsession with the public detention of the means of production, they use the party's money, they don't use the money of the Portuguese. Do you want to preserve something at TAP? They preserve the initials T-A-P, which meant "Portuguese Air Transports" and cannot mean "All Paying". Remember this: money is not from the state, it is from the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u207	To present the ENP bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portuguese were recently surprised by TAP's decision to define its routes, without even knowing the government's strategy for reopening borders. But this claim of the TAP, which seems to attempt to confuse the country with Lisbon, is not only a disregard for the north of the country ; it also shows that the TAP defined its strategy of resumption without taking into account the public interest and even seeking to escape any contribution to the resumption of the country's economic activity. As we once again had the opportunity to witness, in addition to failing to respect the rights of its workers and to define its strategy completely ignoring the public interest and its contribution to the development of the country, the private management of the TAP still seeks, at a pandemic stage, to escape any responsibility with regard to the collective effort to resume our economic activity. Now, TAP is a strategic company that, in addition to being one of the largest domestic exporters, is also an instrument of our sovereignty, in a country with 11 Atlantic islands and important immigrant communities across all continents, scattered a little across the world. However, over the years, various attempts have been made to privatize TAP. The first time we spoke on the subject was in 1991, when the PSD Government of Cavaco Silva approved the transformation of the group into an anonymous society. In 2015, despite the controversy and the dispute, the PSD/CDS Government would eventually privatize 61 % of the capital of the company and, like other bad examples of privatization of strategic sectors for the Portuguese economy, the privatisation of TAP was a major mistake for the country and for the Portuguese. It should be remembered that the TAP did not present significant problems until in 2007 the disastrous purchase at 100 % of the Brazilian VEM ( Varig Engineering and Maintenance ), which resulted in consecutive losses and high liabilities, resulting in a debt of more than EUR 500 million. In addition, the conditions under which this privatisation was granted were very damaging to the State, which sold the company for about 10 million euros. That is, it was a great business for the private, but a disaster for the state. In 2016, with a new political framework in the Assembly of the Republic, it was possible to move forward towards the recovery of 50 % of the capital by the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u209	Viva!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u210	... which, however, remained far from what was required, which was the annulment of privatization. thus, the State recovered the shareholder control of the company, but not the economic rights, without the public control of the company’s management.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u211	No, no! You have adopted economic rights, which is a different thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u212	I mean, they're still the privates. Today, faced with the need of the State to inject about EUR 1 million into the TAP, which was so lacking in areas such as health, nature conservation, railway, or even to support people who have lost their income as a result of the pandemic, or even to strengthen support for micro and small businesses, contributing to the revival of the economy, it becomes more clear that this logic of the State to be shareholder, not to send anything and only to be called when needed funding is no solution. And it is not a solution, especially when this company only looks at its own interests, without any concern about its contribution to the development of the country, focusing solely on its profitability. The Greens therefore consider that the State cannot continue to be a hostage to private interests, so it is time to take public control of the TAP, because it is the only way to place this large company at the service of our economy and the development of the country. This is the meaning of the proposal that Greens today bring to discussion: bring the public interest in the decisions of the TAP and put it at the service of our economy and the development of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u213	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Many Portuguese ask whether it makes sense to put public money, taxpayers, at the service of something that chronically damages and on which citizens have been heavily deceived. And I understand those objections. The Portuguese were misled in 2017, because at the time of the TAP purchase, the Socialist Party Government said that the company was once again public and that who would establish the fundamental guidelines would be the Government, which was equipped with all the conditions to monitor private management and thus guarantee the future of TAP. All this was a tremendous falsehood, all this was an unparalleled ambush and perhaps one of the most ruinous businesses in history. If not, see, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the State paid to account that it did not send anything; it paid to have most of the capital of TAP and at the same time abdicated economic rights and concluded a parasocial agreement which removed any trace of control by the State; it paid to have a majority, but set clauses in which it has to compensate the private if it opposes its will; it paid to have a majority without having any influence in the management, but assumed that, if the company was close to bankruptcy, it would respond to all the costs of capitalisation, as the Court of Auditors points out. In other words, the privates had the best of both worlds: if the company of that profit, that profit would be for the privates; if the company of that injury, the State would suffer such injury.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u215	That's what you signed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u216	The state, by the government's hand, paid for this! He paid for the majority, but he has less influence than the minority. It is unbelievable and, in the face of this impasse situation and the conflict that takes place, it has exposed the dramaticly irresponsible form as the government has conducted this process over the past four years. [[Protests by PS Member Bruno Aragon.]] The most recent episodes are no longer edifying. That TAP is what the government wants, when the minister who says that it was the European Commission that imposed restructuring — with redundancies, fleet cuts and routes coming around — is the same thing that went against the company, saying that it was bankrupt...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u217	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u218	...and that music would be another, in a deplorable public conflict, contributing so inevitably to the decision of Brussels and not the other? [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] What did the government want? Would you like Brussels to decide differently from what the government said was going on here? [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] It is only yesterday that the Minister said: "Look, that is what it is! "It is what it is," said the Minister yesterday. And he said: "We have even been defending Brussels that we understood something different, which should be through provisional support. When are you asked 'but this was the decision of Brussels? And he answered «for it is, and even I agree with it! », what he's saying is that he agrees with a smaller TAP, that he has dismissals, that he has no strategic vocation to serve the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u220	And the PSD defends what?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u221	This is the tragic result of a four-year staging that is now naked. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u222	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u223	Therefore, the government that assumes its responsibilities and explains to the Portuguese because it is EUR 1200 million, which explains whether this money will be returned to the Portuguese purse and what the details of this operation are. We have the right to know and the Portuguese demand to know what the government will do with the product of their taxes. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Member Bruno Aragon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u224	And the PSD defends what?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u225	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: throughout the last 75 years of its history, TAP has served as a lever for the economy, exports and tourism itself. Today we are discussing several projects, some of which call for the nationalization of TAP, and therefore it is time to make a balance sheet of privatization. And what is the balance sheet of this privatisation?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u227	It was very good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u228	More fleet, more destinations, more passengers, more economic value in the company, more turnover, more workers and — one thing the left likes — more social peace in the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u229	Ah, ah! That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u230	What a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u231	Much more social peace in the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u232	That can, recycled, gave to an Airbus!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u233	However, we had the pandemic, we had to deal with COVID and there was a serious and large impact on the aeronautical sector, not only in Portugal as in the world. All companies need support and what the CDS defends is very simple. As regards the support provided by States to their airlines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u234	No one has been given!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u235	...we respect the way this is being developed. The Government has announced that Brussels has already authorised up to EUR 1200 million of loan. We do not know the details, we do not know the rules that Brussels imposed, we do not even know how it will be with regard to the presence of the State in that company and whether, eventually, it will have to leave at some point and when. I must stress that the Liberal Initiative brings a project that makes sense. [[Rice from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] It makes sense that Parliament itself can, of course, monitor the use of public money in that company, whether through loans, the granting of public guarantees, capital increases or the purchase of shares. In other words, if the Government wishes to take any initiative, it must bring Parliament itself in its own diploma, which either approves it or rejects it. Next week, we will have Minister Pedro Nuno Santos in Parliament and we will be able to go to other details about the TAP, but it is important to bear in mind that when we talk about aviation, success depends on something called 'trust'. Now, Portugal has a problem, both internal and external, when dealing with the pandemic. Portugal is the second country in the European Union where there is a higher rate of COVID infection per million inhabitants, being on the blacklist in several countries. This poses a problem to the country, poses a problem to our economy and, of course, poses a problem to the TAP itself. Therefore, it is not understood that, even in this debate, we do not advocate the carrying out of tests or the requirement for proof of a test that has been carried out in the country of origin to those who enter our country. Other countries — the Czech Republic, Austria, Greece, Estonia, Cyprus and so many others — that are not on the blacklist require that they enter the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u236	We're talking about nationalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u237	Therefore, the CDS has an initiative in this area and we hope that the government itself will anticipate itself, because it is urgent to generate such confidence. Otherwise, we will be afraid and, with it, not only will we have no one to come to Portugal as we will also be penalizing that company. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u238	What a great proposal for TAP in Portugal! It's testing COVID!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u239	Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u240	Mr President, the proposal brought to this House by the Left Block could only be to nationalize an airline. It's nothing new, we've seen it at other times, accompanied by the PCP. Therefore, recognizing that what is happening in TAP is, of course, the price paid for poor management and a bad agreement made by the Socialist Party, we must look at the following: in 2015, the TAP had 77 planes and today has 105 ; in 2015, it had 2, 6 million euros of revenue and today it has 3, 3 million ; in 2015, it had 10 million passengers and today it has 17 million ; and in 2015 it had fewer workers than it has today. This was what happened to TAP, now greatly affected by this pandemic. Is everything okay? No, everything is wrong, because the agreement made by the Socialist Party allowed them to benefit from everything and from it. We need to reduce bureaucracy in ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), we need to give more efficiency to Lisbon airport and we have—yes! — to place the State with greater control over what is happening in the TAP. But, ladies and gentlemen, the solution of nationalization always reminds us, all of us, everywhere, of what is happening in South America. Enough of this we make a sort of South America, in which the solution to all problems is to nationalize companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u241	South America is more its policy for the pandemic. It's Bolsonaro! I thought I liked South America!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u242	In fact, the Left Block, if possible, nationalized the Members. We were all part of the same national heritage! My dear ones, the time for nationalizations is over and the Socialist Party knows this very well, but it does not tell you. Minister Pedro Nuno Santos has come to say that the private are acting badly and wrongly, but, my gentlemen, if anyone thinks that, when the time comes to vote on your proposal, the Socialist Party rises from the chairs, more naive than you only those Members who come to the coalition and never go to votes alone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u243	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u244	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, if they think that the Socialist Party will make it possible for nationalization, they are very, very wrong. It's too bad they keep believing that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u245	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: TAP has long presented financial and environmental problems. This is more of the cases that show us that private management is only better than public management when the public service is not involved and when the market is fully competitive. We therefore agree that it is time for the State to intervene in order to ensure public service, in particular by making the routes that all regions of the country and territorial cohesion need, and at the same time the economic sustainability of the company so that taxpayers are not called to pay again. The NAP argues that any State support to the PAT has as its counterpart the control of the company by the State and, moreover, the requirement that it be accompanied by requirements of good environmental practice and economic management, such as: a gas emission reduction plan with greenhouse effect; the suspension of night flights, between midnight and 6 hours in the morning; the elimination of the exemption from taxes on petroleum products; the requirement and verification of competitive conditions in intragroup business with its private shareholders; the preparation of economic feasibility analyses in each investment option; the inclusion of an insurance policy that minimizes the impact on the level of loss of revenue on unforeseen or force majeure reasons; the reformulation of the labour market policy, favouring the maintenance of jobs, revising their remuneration in the light of an assessment of international benchmarking of remuneration by professional category; and also the re-evaluation of the company’s size in the light of the country’s market, with regard to the demand for tourism, with the use of collateral, with the use of the use of the country’s, with the use of the use of the country’s, etc. Finally, we advocate for transparency that the terms of any State support for TAP be approved in Parliament. We have already tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Supplementary Budget with this vision for the TAP. On the four bills under discussion, I must say that the Left Block defends the nationalization of TAP and that this option implies that the State, in addition to having to pay the financial ransom of the company, must also pay compensation to its private shareholders, at an additional cost to taxpayers who are unnecessary to guarantee the control of the company by the State. The State can guarantee this control by placing the financial bailout in the form of an increase in capital, so we do not follow this proposal, which will only bring additional costs to taxpayers. The CFP defends the public control of the TAP, with which we agree, but provides that, in addition to the acquisition of social participations, there is the possibility of compensation to private shareholders, which we do not follow either. We will follow the ENP proposal and we will also follow the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, which provides for Parliament's approval of the terms of any State support to the TAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u247	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u248	Mr President, it was obviously a mistake for the State to abdicate public control and management of the company. It is obvious, because once again it needs to be the State to solve the anxieties, debt, crises and mismanagement of individuals. This necessarily means, especially in a climate emergency environment, which is important, yes ma'am, that there is the re-appropriation and nationalization of the TAP. I will then vote in favour of the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens. It is important to remember that this nationalisation cannot be done without looking at the national commitments signed to combat the environmental crisis, by safeguarding our future. I would also like to remind you that the TAP is from companies with more emissions of dioxide and that a possible exemption from aviation taxes would make it possible to compensate for the money that the Executive will inject into the TAP as well as to deal with environmental damage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u249	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I leave some notes on the diplomas, but also on the interventions made by colleagues. I would like to begin precisely by what seems clear to me and that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will show up whenever necessary. We are only holding a debate in the Assembly of the Republic on TAP because the Government and the Socialist Party have reverted to the privatisation of TAP. If it hadn't been like that, we weren't discussing the TAP, we weren't discussing its importance, we weren't discussing its contribution to the country's economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u251	Congratulations! I'm glad someone finally explained the reversal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u252	This is a very relevant note and you like to forget. The second note, still in this matter, is to say that, in fact, the reversal of this privatisation cost some money, because it had to be done on a bad privatization, carried out by the PSD and the CDS,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... which has compromised the State in a series of matters which Mr Cristovão Norte has decided to say that they were the responsibility of the Socialist Party, when he knows very well that it was his government, the PSD and the CDS. The third note has to do with the diplomas themselves. It seems more or less obvious that at this stage they are redundant and extemporaneous, because we all know — I think it is consensual in this plenary — that, since April, the government has taken a path to intervention in the TAP. We all understand that this intervention must be public. It is consensual, even to the right of this plenary, that it must be public and that there is no other solution to that. Therefore, to introduce a debate and a debate at a time when we look forward to private shareholders responding to the conditions that the government naturally imposed on this negotiation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u253	It's been three months!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u254	By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to say, in favour of the truth, that it does not stop being curious that the PSD and the CDS continue to be in absolute denial, trying to move to public opinion and to the country that the solution we are discussing today on the TAP could have been equationed in the temporary aid framework in the context of the European Union's COVID. It wasn't possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u255	That's what the government wanted to negotiate in Brussels! The government wanted that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u256	Mr Cristovão Norte and Mr Deputies of the CDS, I will give you some bad news. You know why it wasn't possible? Because the accounts of TAP, on 31 December 2019, had a negative social capital balance of EUR 600 million. You know what that means? Technical failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u257	So why did the government propose this to Brussels?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u258	You know what that means, too? Technical failure of the responsibility of private shareholders, which you are always defending! Private shareholders failed TAP, ruined TAP, and prevented TAP from integrating this temporary aid framework in the context of COVID. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] It is curious that you say something and your opposite! It says that TAP is broken, says that the results are bad, says that the State does not have power in the TAP, but then says that the value of TAP has fallen because of the State and because of the government. Mr. Deputies, or something or something! If the government does not have power in the TAP, it does not have the power to change the results either. Therefore, the PSD has to decide on this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u259	Who brought the pandemic was the private shareholders! After all, it didn't come from China!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u260	In fact, to conclude, I must say, in favour of the truth, that it is very curious to see the deep programmatic drift that has been installed in the PSD with regard to TAP. No one understands the PSD's speech on this matter. [[The PS doesn't understand!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u261	In fact, no one understands what the PSD would do on this matter. You don't get it! It is a systematic criticism without any solution and we are waiting for the solution. I end with two references. One of them is to tell the CDS that can torture reality as you wish, but the fact is only one:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u262	They're numerous, my dear! [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u263	... the private management of TAP failed and the privatization that you promoted failed. This seems very clear to me and the right itself considers this matter. Finally, Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, I think thanks to you for wanting this Plenary and the Assembly of the Republic to interfere in the executive power of the Government. But, Mr, there is a separation of powers and the Assembly of the Republic should not interfere in a clearly executive power. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr President, if you ever want to do this, I advise you to win elections and form a government and then do whatever you want with TAP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u264	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u265	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The role of the State cannot be translated as a condition of suggesting the inclusion of the State or of that destination in the plan of TAP routes, or of asking what will be done of the fleet of the company here for a few months, or of serving as a witness or as a representative to what is decided by the private management of TAP. Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, said that the Portuguese were deceived in 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u266	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u267	It is true that the Portuguese were deceived in 2017 and were stolen in 2015, because we warned that the State had remained with the contingent responsibilities in financing TAP in the context of privatization, as soon as 2015, with the PSD Government / CDS. It was a robbery to the country and to the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u268	Stop it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u269	The PS government did not want to reverse privatisation, it wanted to legalize it, it wanted to keep private management doing what it wanted. Mr. Deputies, private shareholders have ruined TAP because the PS government has left them there. The usual spokesmen came here to represent and defend the economic groups and their interests. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] We already know that here will be the right hand to the PS, side by side in the vote, to reject the PCP proposal. We already know that they will give them their hand, but public control will continue to be a matter of our time in relation to TAP to defend the airline. No more « New Banks », no more « BPN » ( Portuguese Business Bank), enough scandals, like those you have come to do! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u270	That's enough PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u271	To close this debate, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u272	Mr President, at the close of this debate, I believe that there are some things that are quite clear and that we cannot fail to point out. The right still does not understand what the debate is on the table when we bring the questions about the TAP to Parliament. On the one hand, the PSD and Mr Cristóvão Norte announce that the Portuguese people have been deceived, but forget that they cannot pass between raindrops, due to the responsibility of the PSD in the privatization they did in 2015. As I said in the initial intervention, the Left Block criticized the alleged renationalization process that was made in 2016. We never cheated anyone,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u273	We're not fooling anyone, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u274	... but the PSD and the CDS, when they finally privatized, in a very damaging way to the state, did not manage to deceive the Portuguese people about what they did. The CDS again gave the speech of Neeleman — we are already used — and spoke of social peace in the TAP. Mr President, I think you should be ashamed if any worker is listening to what you said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u275	That's something he doesn't have!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u276	In fact, we are already used to these CDS interventions, but it is quite a shame to say that there is social peace in TAP and Groundforce, especially with the private managements that are there. But, well, that's the usual! Open... The Liberal Initiative tells us about emotional obsessions. Mr President, you did not realize anything about the debate that is on the table. We are not talking about emotion or emotional obsessions with whatever it is, we are talking about a strategic sector for the economy. Do you think that, without a public TAP or a TAP with a strategic definition, the Portuguese economy can survive? TAP represents 2 % of GDP (gross domestic product) of the economy, Member of the Commission! Therefore, we need to look at this company as it is: a strategic sector for the economy and for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u277	He wants to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u278	In conclusion, what remains of this debate is the following question: who wants what about TAP? on our part, it became very clear what we want. We want a nationalized TAP, because it is the only way to ensure that the public record is well spent, it is the only way to ensure that there is a strategic plan for the economy, it is the only way to ensure that there is territorial cohesion in the way the TAP divides its routes. We know that private management has so far been unable to guarantee any of this, and therefore decisions must be made once and for all. I appeal, now, to the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party to take this responsibility. The government must take this responsibility once and for all! We cannot stand hostage to the blackmail that is currently being done by private administrators. A decision must be taken quickly, and it can only be that of nationalisation and public control of TAP and Groundforce. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u279	We now turn to agenda item 6, which consists of the discussion of Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April, which establishes a temporary and exceptional regime of support for humanitarian firefighters' associations in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary Assessments No 11 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 18 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. To speak on this subject, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u280	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mr State Secretary and Mr Members: The CFP has requested this House to assess Decree-Law No 19 / 2020, which is on financial support for humanitarian firearms associations in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, and has promoted its agenda for today. The proposals of the CFP to amend this legislative decree have already been submitted, so that the Government and the parliamentary groups can appreciate them in time and so that they can be approved until the end of this Legislative Session. The CFP initiative stems from the consideration of the inadequacy of the measures adopted by the Government in the face of the seriousness of the financial situation by which firefighter associations and the magnitude of the humanitarian missions they are called to perform. The objective of the CFP is not to propose the cessation of the law decree, but to introduce amendments to it and add measures which it does not contain and which we have as necessary and urgent as necessary. It is due in this debate very much to the firefighters of Portugal. When the pandemic went through our lives, the firefighters' associations were already in a difficult situation, which stems from the fact that they have never been adopted, until today, a public funding regime that avoids the chronic deficits and negative results they face, as well as the downgrading of the values paid by the services they provide and the delays in the payment of these services by a number of public entities. With the outbreak, firefighters had to take immediate health protection measures in order to continue to provide their services to populations in safety. Consumable costs for ambulances and with specific personal protective equipment to intervene in the situations of patients, suspects or confirmed, of COVID-19 have greatly increased as a result of the late provision of personal protective equipment in sufficient number. And, in the face of the cancellation of non-emergency health care, the transport activity of patients, which is the largest source of own revenue from the associations, was drastically reduced throughout the national territory, causing a sudden fall of these revenues, which in many associations was between 80 % and 90 %. As a result, when the most demanding period of the year for combating rural fires is surely approaching, firefighters are in a financial situation that is not too extreme to consider dramatic. The insufficiency of exceptional transitional support measures contained in Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 is consensual among firefighter associations. The exhibitions that several federations have brought to parliamentary groups could not be more elucidative. The proposals submitted by the CFP, within this parliamentary review, are intended to provide voluntary firefighters'associations with the essential support for their financial balance and the fulfilment of their missions. The CFP therefore proposes the financial support of firefighter associations through a non-refundable extraordinary fund to be applied from July 2020, with a minimum value corresponding to the value of three monthly permanent financing benefits, budgeted for 2020, in accordance with the law in force. This fund should be distributed by the associations as follows: 50 % depending on the costs of salaries of paid staff, 25 % distributed equally and 25 % distributed proportionately and depending on the operating costs of the associations. The CFP also proposes the adoption of an immediate reimbursement mechanism for additional costs incurred by the associations with the acquisition of materials and personal protective equipment and other charges directly related to the COVID-19 pandemic; the establishment of a time limit for the payment of public entities' debts to firearm associations; the revision of the protocol with INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) and with the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority in order to cover the actual costs of firefighters' services to those entities; the allocation of green diesel to vehicles purchased by firefighter companies in the context of the transport of patients or injured persons and in the fulfilment of civil protection missions, including relief, assistance, support and firefighting; and the adoption of measures to ensure that personal accident and work insurance cover, precisely, the risks of contact by infectious diseases. These are, in short, the proposals which the CFP puts to the consideration of all parliamentary groups. In conclusion, Madam President, we believe that this parliamentary assessment is an opportunity that should not be wasted to bring justice to the Portuguese firefighters and create conditions so that they can continue to carry out their noble public protection missions with dignity. Not to waste this opportunity is a responsibility that rests on all the parties represented in this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u281	Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u282	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block took the initiative to present a parliamentary assessment on Decree-Law No 19 / 2020, which establishes support for humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters for this pandemic period, because it considers that what the Government has presented is clearly insufficient. In Portugal, the overwhelming majority of firefighters are volunteers who are part of humanitarian associations—it is worth mentioning that these are not companies and have no profits! Moreover, the financial weakness of these associations is a chronic problem, which is even more difficult because of the accumulation of State debts concerning the payment of non-emergency transport of patients and other services. It is also important to remember that it was the firefighters who were — and are still — in front of the pandemic battle: in the immediate provision of relief, in the transport of patients and in the provision of many other necessary services. at this moment, much of the humanitarian associations of firefighters is in complete financial ruin. The State does not pay the debts it has, the revenues of the non-emergency transport of patients fell between 50 % and 80 %, but also the revenues of the urgent transport of patients have fallen. We know well how many people, during the emergency period, and still in this period of disaster, did not resort to hospitals, even in acute disease situations. It is not yet known when normality will be resumed. On the other hand, expenditure increased exponentially. Much of the firemen, effectively volunteers, did not provide service because, because of their main professional activity, they stayed at home, in layoff, in telework, in support of their children. Humanitarian associations had to resort to the work, with extraordinary hours, of firefighters hired, which had, of course, increased expenditure on wages and social security contributions, and still had to guarantee the acquisition of personal protective equipment. The conclusion of this is that these humanitarian associations and firemen had to pay to help. And this must be the responsibility of the state! However, what did the government do with its decree? The Government has made available an advance of permanent financing, to be deducted in the following months, as early as 2020, and has created a line of financing, a specific financing line, which is a line of credit, which will also have to be returned from 2021. The government is therefore doing two things: forwarding money that is already from the firemen and lending money that will then receive back. It is not surprising, therefore, that out of the 435 existing associations, only about 40 have resorted to this support, because they know perfectly well that they will not be able to return the money. This is not to pay for the work that the firefighters of the humanitarian associations have done, extraordinaryly and with enormous difficulties, in combating the health crisis. And the Left Block considers that this work actually has to be paid. We therefore defend — and we have already presented these proposals — extraordinary and non-refundable financial support to humanitarian firefighters'associations through the allocation of two twelfths of permanent funding to associations which are in a situation of significant financial weakness, as defined by the Government in Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 and by the allocation of three twelfths to those who are in a situation of aggravated financial weakness. It is a measure that does not solve the fundamental problem—we will even have to revisit—but it relieves the associations of the garrote in which they are now; it is fair, because it pays the extraordinary work, which has only been done because the humanitarian associations have advanced the money; and it is necessary, because it guarantees the operationality of the humanitarian associations and firefighters, at such a critical stage as we live all summer, and which is approaching, that is the time of fire. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u283	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u284	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bodies of firefighters of the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters certainly have an extreme importance, not only in the fight against fires, but mainly as an advanced force of intervention in emergency or disaster situations. It is therefore essential to ensure that firefighters have the necessary conditions and means to ensure compliance with their competences and ultimately to ensure the protection of populations, as well as their own protection and valorisation. Reports of the representative structures of the class have been used to account for the various debts accumulated over the years by various entities of the State, such as the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, the National Institute of Medical Emergency, known as INEM, and especially the Ministry of Health. A few months ago, the Firemen's League itself issued an elucidative statement on this issue, in which it reported that the associations and firemen's bodies are on the brink of ruin due to delays in payments of the services provided to the Ministry of Health, with particular incidence in hospitals, whose accumulated debt already exceeded EUR 35 million — in some cases, more than one year ago — having also been the Ministry of Health alerted to this situation, which causes grave damage to the associations and firemen's bodies throughout the country. This situation of the firearm bodies of the humanitarian associations of volunteer firemen has also been aggravated by the health crisis that has plagued our country and which still has its repercussions, which has in fact strengthened the creation of an exceptional regime of support for humanitarian associations and which is contained in Decree-Law No 19 / 2020. However, the current pandemic had a direct impact on the activity of these associations, either by the sudden decrease in the transport of non-emergency patients, with a very significant impact on their turnover, either by the sudden increase of costs with self-protection equipment and disinfection material, which lead these associations, necessarily, to a situation of financial weakness that may jeopardize the operational activity of firefighters and, consequently, their capacity to respond to emergency situations. In spite of this, the support provided in the exceptional scheme here under consideration does not, in fact, seem sufficient to address the structural problems of several orders which have increased over the past few years. On the issue of the lack of capacity of firefighters in front of the protection of communities — which, in itself, carries a tremendous factor of concern — today, there are other problems, such as, for example, the lack of nutritional quality of meals that arrive at firefighters when they are in full combat of fires or the fact that personal accident insurance policies do not cover situations of infection due to infectious disease, which is even more serious in the context of a health crisis. These problems can cause serious disturbances in the short term, as the hot summer days are approaching long steps. It is urgent to take measures that alter this serious situation and strengthen the framework for constant support for this diploma. Therefore, the NAP understands, and therefore it has tabled an amendment, which should be created direct support through funding lines...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u285	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u286	I shall conclude, Madam President. As I said, the NAP believes that bottom line funding should be created, attributed to the humanitarian associations of firefighters who are in financial weakness, depending on the percentage of revenue breakdown compared to the same period of 2019, as we believe to be the most elementary justice. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u287	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u288	Madam President, allow me, first of all, and being the first time I ask the Secretary of State to say that it is with great pleasure that I do so. I had the honour to be able to work with the Secretary of State in the structure of civil protection and, of course, it is with great pleasure that I see her taking on these duties in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u289	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u290	In dealing with this matter now, I think it is essential that we highlight the relevant role of volunteering in Portugal. And, stressing the role of volunteering, the need for financial balance of humanitarian associations. When the reorganisation of the firefighting device was discussed, because of the negative circumstances of the response to the tragedies we had in recent years, the power-CL would have given volunteer firefighters a different role, from our point of view, in combating fires, for example, by doing what was done, some years ago, with the Permanent Intervention Teams ( EIP ), making a professionalization of the Firefighting Teams (ECIN), which would help, as the EIPs helped, to give consistency to humanitarian associations, with some of their firefighters with professional functions. This would give consistency to the functioning of the associations. The choice was another, so obviously now we have to look at reality as it is. We have a financing law approved in 2015 and which provided for its analysis and review. We should probably launch all of us in this work, trying to do what was done at the time, in which we achieved a quite consensual approval, so that we can get a review that would adapt what is the reality of humanitarian associations today to what are the shortcomings they have and, in this concrete issue of the decree-law appreciated, whether or not there is a chance that we can extend these support. It is indisputably, as has already been said, that humanitarian associations, as many institutions in the country at present, have faced negative doubles, i.e., on the one hand, the reduction of paid activity, and on the other, the increase in unpaid activity. With less activity, there was an increase in the need for consumer spending, as a result of all the precautions that needed to be taken due to the pandemic, which caused, for example, with individual and consumable protective equipment, to spend more than the means and support to which they had access. On the other hand, there is also the structural issue, which has to be remembered here, of the treasury problem that causes the relationship of humanitarian associations with the State, in the dimension not so much of the relationship with the Ministry of Internal Administration but more of the relationship with the Ministry of Health, in which, in addition to creating difficulties in humanitarian associations, it creates great differences in treatment and equity problems between humanitarian associations. It is that there are hospital centers that pay some frequency and quickly and there are hospital centers that take much longer to pay. As the financing law is the same for all humanitarian associations, of course there will be one that will be in far greater difficulties than others. So, Madam President, in conclusion, what I wanted to say, on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, is that we are open to, in our specialty, being able to work on these solutions. It is important that we know what the Government considers to be feasible in this regard in order to achieve an objective, which is never to weaken the humanitarian associations of volunteer firemen, much less when we are starting a period of fight against fires of greater intensity, even in the context of a pandemic that also creates enormous constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u291	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u292	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Firefighters are not only essential in the summer to erase, unfortunately, famous forest fires. Firefighters are civil protection agents, who act in the rescue and protection of people and goods. Firefighters, in addition to other missions, do the following: they fight forest and urban fires; they help populations in all accidents, disasters or disasters; they help shipwrecks and make underwater searches; they transport victims and patients, including in pre-hospital emergencies; they collaborate in other civil protection activities, in the exercise of their specific functions; and they rescue animals, often putting their own lives at risk. These are just some of the many other missions that time prevents me from describing. The firemen were and are in the front line, in the rescue of the populations and in the fight against the COVID-19, and they too took a high risk on their day-to-day, which never stopped. However, with compulsory confinement, there was a cancellation of non-emergency health care and the non-emergency transport of patients decreased significantly. The revenues of other services provided to the population were also reduced as a result of the state of emergency. And thus adding to the insufficient chronic funding by the State, humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters have accumulated deficits and negative results and are therefore experiencing dramatic situations. Unfortunately, some « only remember Santa Bárbara when he finds it»! And, as it is easy to calculate, the lack of funding leads to the multiplication of precarious conditions in women and men who develop their professional and voluntary activity in firefighter bodies. But more seriously, it fosters a manifest lack of interest in new elements that may wish to integrate the recruitment, so necessary to increase the number of effectives. The relief in Portugal is largely guaranteed by humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters. As such, it is necessary for the Government to pay off all its debts with these and to strengthen the financing of them to carry out their missions properly and responsibly. Financing is essential, not only now in pandemic time, but also for the purchase of vehicles, equipment, necessary materials. Financing that is essential, we stress, so that the help and protection of people and goods are guaranteed. We want to conclude by saying a sincere greeting, on behalf of the Greens, to the Portuguese firemen, for their undeniable contribution from the beginning of the pandemic to this day, but recalling that the best way to thank them is to comply with their commitments, ensuring working and working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u294	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u295	Madam President, we are facing one of the most difficult moments in the life of our firemen. This year, more than 40 associations had to seek help from the Ministry of Internal Administration for not having liquidity to cope with the difficulties — more than 40 associations! We have had a huge increase in the needs, as a result of the COVID issue, of the new challenges that this pandemic has posed and of the lack of professionalism, which continues not to advance and leave our men and women, who are in the front line and should therefore be rewarded, in the back line. But, ladies and gentlemen. Mr.António Filipe and Mr. Sandra Cunha, I have to ask you something. It is that when the State Budget for 2020 was approved, you already knew what they were counting on. The budget for firefighters should therefore amount to EUR 31 million and was only EUR 28 million. And you knew that because the National Firefighters Council knew that. The increase in the Social Protection Fund for Firearms ( FPSB ) should be EUR 2, 5 million. Do you know how much it was? Zero! And you, who have approved the State budget, now appear here saying: "We did not know anything, we had no idea of anything, the guilt of the Socialist Party! » And there was still a lack of Mrs. PEV's deputy here to say that the blame lies with the governments on the right ten years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u296	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u297	I will finish, Madam President. Quoting Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP, I conclude by saying the following: it seems that "they only remember Santa Barbara when she finds", and that is very bad for you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u298	Zero proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u299	Mr Francisco Pereira Oliveira, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u300	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government identified the financial difficulties of the humanitarian associations of firefighters resulting from the disease pandemic COVID-19 and assumed that they lacked urgent legislative intervention, which is why it promoted the adoption of the decree-law now the subject of the request for parliamentary assessment. However, Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April aims to support humanitarian associations of firefighters who, due to the COVID 19 disease pandemic, are in financial weakness, with an impact on the ability to pay wages to wage firefighters and other workers. This decree considers the situations of firearm associations that are in significant or aggravated financial weakness. It therefore provides for support in the total amount of more than EUR 40 million, of which EUR 13, EUR 5 million are direct support for firefighter associations, the possibility of anticipation of permanent financing of EUR 7 million and the provision of a specific financing without interest amounting to EUR 6, EUR 5 million. The government has also reinforced more than EUR 560 000 — and Mr Ventura should hear this — the firearm Social Protection Fund to fill needs for volunteer firefighters. The improvement of the support scheme for firearm associations is a generic object shared by the Government. For this reason, in the State budget for 2020, the amount of permanent financing to associations amounted to EUR 28 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u301	At EUR 28 million! But they asked for 31 million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u302	Thus, compared with 2019, where the value was EUR 27 million, there was an increase of EUR 1 million and EUR 80 thousand, which represents an increase of 4 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Social Protection Fund for Firefighters was further increased by 4 %. As far as these parliamentary assessments are concerned, we have found that, as regards those requests and their proposals for amendments, in particular, an assessment of their opportunity, their legislative and financial impact will have to be made. We know that the financing of fire associations is governed by the provisions of Law No 94 / 2015 of 13 August, which approved the rules for the financing of the associations, on the continent, as holders of fire bodies. Thus, a possible modification of such rules in order to resolve the alleged insufficient financing by the State should be promoted by amendment to the law on the financing of associations rather than to the decree-law which now provides them with exceptional support in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to the above-mentioned support, it is said that these entities still benefited — and I say this to Mr Ventura in particular and again — in a first supply of 146 000 masks, of 130,000 FP2 masks, of 17 000 boots, of 150 000 pairs of gloves, of all protection, and the equipment distributed was in accordance with a set of criteria defined by the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority, which resulted in the allocation of different quantities for each fireman's body. We therefore believe that new support can be given, without budgetary impact, whose analysis will only be able to be made aware of the concrete content of the proposed amendments and their financial and legislative impacts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u303	Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u304	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The government says it has created an exceptional package of support measures for firefighters, but after all, it has given nothing strictly to the humanitarian associations. The Government says that it has created a line of financing, but in the end, or in advance, the twelfth or twelfth loans, the value of which, in most cases, is less than the amount of the quotas paid by the partners. So the government is doing what it does or realize it supports the firefighters. There must be the pandemic, as contagious as the virus, to prove it. For propaganda, the pretext of institutional advertising, 15 million. To save a wrongful reversal, EUR 1200 million. To amend the hand, in another mismanaged business at the New Bank, 850 million per year. For the layoff of micro and small business managers, zero. To reward the performance of SNS professionals, also zero. For the firemen, zero, again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u305	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u306	Conclusion: There seems to be money for everything, but for the creation of wealth, for recognition, and in this case for the help and protection of populations, there is nothing. We have not been able to achieve, at all, this abrupt reversal of values and priorities. We are talking about support for those who risk their lives to save our own and fundamental resources for the national civil protection system. Humanitarian associations record revenue breaks of more than 50 % in corporations transporting patients to haemodialysis, and 70 % and 80 % where they do not have this service. Each COVID-19 patient costs corporations at least €50 in individual protective equipment and receives from the State the same value as they previously received. Frankly, this kind of support reminds me of a history of my land. In my land, it is said that there was a mole who, when he saw the business going back, blamed the donkey for eating too much. So I wanted to get him to eat less and every day he was cutting off his feed, although the work continued to be exactly the same. on this floor, the donkey just stopped eating and the business was just profit. But without strength, for no longer feeding, the donkey just died and the miller, the unbeliever, exclaimed: "Now that you were giving me up, did you remember to die? Oh, my God! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u307	That's fiction!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u308	It's kind of like this that the government is dealing with firefighters. To begin with, it was no longer bad for the State to start paying the associations the EUR 30 million it owes them for services provided. [[PSD applause.]] We are in the midst of a critical period of fires and this situation can seriously endanger the operational capacity of corporations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u309	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u310	I shall conclude, Madam President. What the PSD asks of the PS and the government is for them to put their hands on their conscience and take their way, is not going to happen to the firefighters what happened to the miller's ass. Support for firefighters has not gone on purpose, and good intentions are full hell. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u311	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration, Patrícia Gaspar, to whom I address a very cordial greeting. You have the floor, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u312	Madam President, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The declaration of the state of emergency in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic had an immediate effect on the activity of humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters, which resulted in an abrupt decrease in the urgent and non-emergency of patients, with a very significant impact on their turnover. In conjunction with the Portuguese Firearms League and on the basis of the information available to date, the Government decided to move forward, soon on the second 15th of March, with the development of a proposal to support associations to address the cash needs, in particular to ensure payment of salaries for wage firefighters. This is because we have always been aware that a situation of financial imbalance, by worsening, could seriously compromise the operational activity of firefighter bodies and their ability to respond to all types of occurrences. Decree-Law No 19 / 2020 of 30 April adopted at a time when those impacts have not yet been quantitatively known, provides for exceptional measures of immediate support to associations within the framework of the pandemic, not providing structural support. The options were considered and were possible in view of the situation and taking into account the support measures that were being implemented for the other sectors of activity, economic agents and social sector, but we always left the firm opening to reassess them, in particular considering the possible development of the situation. The Law Decree provides for two modalities for supporting associations: on the one hand, the possibility of anticipation of up to three twelfths of permanent funding due in 2020 and on the other hand the possibility of allocation of specific funding, without remuneration interest, and which will be refundable over a period that may reach 48 months. With regard to the Social Protection Fund for Firearms, the decree also confirmed the increase of two percentage points in the amount of the annual transfer in excess of 66 % compared to the amount originally planned for 2020 and which represents more than half a million euros. This reinforcement, which is in addition to the already planned State budget, aims to fill the needs of support for volunteer firefighters, in particular for medical assistance and components that are not covered by other entities. According to data provided by the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority itself, until 25 June the Government has requested this financial support 54 humanitarian voluntary firearms associations, amounting to a total of EUR 1, 9 million and, fortunately, to date, the government has no information that there are truly broken associations. In addition, we have worked hard over the past few months in an absolutely crucial effort, which involved the Ministries of Internal Administration and Health, but also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that by the time the individual protective equipment was scarce all over the world, we could bring to firebombs some 670,000 individual protective equipment, and a new distribution of equipment is already being prepared. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the Special Rural Fire Control Device, I want to tell you that all debt is paid and, therefore, 2020 is running very positively. We worked in this device in a very cautious way because of the COVID-19 pandemic, trying simultaneously to ensure that we could do the fight without exposing these operations too much, avoiding exposure to risk, but mitigating possible situations that would reveal themselves. Therefore, these are absolutely fundamental aspects with regard to this most critical period that we know we will all face. We are convinced that this was an absolutely fundamental step, but it will not have to be the last one, in a process that is naturally volatile and evolutionary, our firm purpose is to guarantee the support that has become necessary to effectively continue to support one of the most critical sectors of our society and that now more than ever has proved that its value and its role are absolutely essential to our society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not paying attention and the government is not playing a game that is absolutely serious for all of us and the fire department. And that's why from six months to this part we are working in a coordinated way with the Portuguese Bombers League and the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority. The restructuring of this sector, the revisiting of this sector and the thinking of all the contours that this sector brings are part of our top priorities. But unfortunately this is not done with a fingerbrush, because it is a complex system, which will require a lot of work and that is what we are doing every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u313	To close this debate, Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u314	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To close this debate, I wanted to start by penitentiating myself. In fact, in the face of the criticism made by Mr André Ventura, when we discussed the State Budget for 2020, we did not foresee that there would be a pandemic. Astrology is not our strong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u315	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u316	by the way, there are those who, after all, but it's not our case! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, during the discussion of the Amending Budget, we waited for Mr André Ventura's proposals for support for firefighters. The PCP has already presented its own, those of the Arrival do not know them. And, with regard to the subject under discussion, you still have two minutes to speak and, if you want, you can run and join our proposals. By the way, if you do not present yours, vote on ours and not criticize them. [[PS and BE laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u317	Call the firemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u318	But this is not a debate against anyone. This debate has to do with a serious issue arising from the pandemic, which is the financial situation of firefighters. And firefighters, who are always ready and available to help populations in difficulty, are now in difficulty. It is time to pay back by the political power so that firefighters can have financial conditions to continue to provide their support to the populations. That's what moves us here. in this sense, and being sensitive to appeals that have been made recently by several federations of firefighter associations from some points in the country, which have brought their concerns to the parliamentary groups, we advanced with a set of proposals that will certainly go down to the committee, will be discussed in the specialty and therefore this debate does not end here. In view of the convergence in this debate regarding the need to support firefighters' associations, we hope that, at the end of the Legislative Session, either in the discussion of the Amending Budget, since there are proposals relating to this matter, or in the end of the parliamentary assessment process, firefighters can benefit from this and can find financial means to continue their work in support of the people, which is of great importance. Our vows are these and that this process is not wasted, to give firefighters the support they really deserve. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u319	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to inform the House that two amendments tabled by the PAN Parliamentary Group have been tabled in the Bureau with regard to the two parliamentary opinions. These amendments are down to 1. the Commission. We have come to the end of this debate, so I say goodbye to the honourable Members. State Secretaries. We now move on to the seventh point of the agenda, which consists of the discussion of the draft resolution No 428 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extraordinary Program for the Recovery of Consultations, Examinations and Surgery of the Bill No. 438 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency Plan for the National Health Service and Resolution Projects Nos 419 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Plan for the recovery of planned activity in the National Health Service, 449 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends the prioritization of investment in the structural and operational needs of the National Health Service and the valorization of all its professionals and 453 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reinforcement of investment in the National Health Service. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u320	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic has brought uncertainty, real risks and dangers, of course for individual health and public health. Extraordinary measures were decided and applied to control and mitigate its impact. ‘Buying the curve’ has become a repeated expression, in order to ensure, in essence, that the health system did not collapse with damage to everyone. And the whole health system didn't collapse. Their professionals, daily tested under very adverse conditions, have treated and saved the lives of many of our citizens affected by COVID-19. If the result was generally positive, it is also due to the fact that the non-COVID care activity has been reduced to a minimum. Everything that was not considered critical was demarcated and was suspended, between March 16 and May 3, by the office of the Minister of Health. But the other diseases have continued to exist and people continue to need health care. from younger to older people, particularly chronic patients, Portuguese continue to need access to vaccines, consultations, complementary methods of diagnosis and therapy, treatments and surgeries. The Minister stated in the Health Committee on 20 May that, with the suspension of the SNS activity, more than 840 000 consultations were to be held in primary health care, more than 540 000 hospital consultations and more than 50 000 surgeries. As a result of this pandemic, there is also an increase in casuistics in the area of mental health, an overload on the National Network of Integrated Continued Care and an even more grueling shortage of means in palliative care. This new silent epidemic is now the biggest health problem in Portugal. The central issue to be resolved is in health care not provided due to the decreed suspension, the ability to reschedule and the minimization of the past time on waiting lists, which, before the pandemic, was much more than acceptable, either clinically or even by law. It is therefore urgent to activate an extraordinary program to recover the delay in access to health care, exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. For the CDS, this happens to identify the effective capacity of the health system, institution the institution, taking into account the existing resources, but also the new operating constraints resulting from the prevalence of COVID-19. On the basis of this, it is necessary to allocate in the Amending Budget a specific allocation for the recovery of activity and access, to be distributed taking into account the results and gains in health. It is essential that the SNS institutions have autonomy for such budgetary management and for the adoption of current decisions. We must also assume the additional need for an extraordinary contractual programme with the private and social sectors for consultations, complementary means of diagnosis and therapy and surgeries, in which the values paid are properly adjusted, in accordance with the current safety standards of the Directorate-General for Health. In the context of primary health care, access for all citizens to a family health team with timely response capacity for consultations, active surveillance programmes and vaccination should be ensured. It is also time to promote access to telehealth responses, which is quite different from telephone consultations, to strengthen the continuing care network, through the updating of funding values, and to increase the number of beds and palliative care teams. It is urgent to launch this extraordinary programme through the union of efforts throughout the health system. We believe that this complementarity benefits the SNS itself, which can thus be dedicated both to patients infected with COVID-19, or to all the other activity, now more delayed and conditioned by the safety rules, but above all benefits the user, who becomes access to the health care he needs in time and time. In the fight against this pandemic, the obvious gains in public health should not be sided with ideological prejudices, but this choice and priority will be made by you today and Tuesday. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President Antonio Filipe was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u321	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP proposes the establishment of an emergency plan for the National Health Service. For the discontent of some, the National Health Service, despite its difficulties and insufficiency, has been fundamental in combating epidemic outbreaks in recent months. The SNS was the solution to ensure the access of all users to health care, regardless of their economic condition, without leaving anyone behind, which not all countries can say. Now, that the recovery of deferred care is put, the health business defenders lay down the claws outside to find that the private groups, exactly those who, in the first months of the pandemic, hid and closed services, stay with the provision of these care, placing public resources that must be invested, above all, in the SNS. It was not the private groups or the insurers who were and are in the front line, despite PSD, CDS, Liberal Initiative and Arrival to take up the defence of the interests of the private groups in the Assembly, constantly seeking to discredit the SNS and question the capacity of the public service. But the PS and the government also have responsibilities here, because if they do not take the necessary steps to strengthen the SNS, they are pushing the provision of care for private groups. The role and importance of the SNS, of all its workers, in combating the epidemic is recognized by the workers and the population. Now that the need for continuity, follow-up and treatment of patients with CVID-19 and other pathologies and recovery of deferred health care arises, the solution does not go through the transfer of care to private groups, but rather through the SNS, today and in the future, because this is the instrument that guarantees the right to health for all. Therefore, we propose strengthening the SNS in the financial and technical level and increasing the number of workers in health, to equip them with the response capacity that users need. We propose that the recovery of deferred care be completed by the end of this year and the hiring of health workers for primary and hospital health care, public health, continued and palliative care. We also propose the conversion of labour contracts concluded with workers in the context of the fight against the epidemic into contracts with public binding, for indefinite or permanent duration; the allocation of remuneration supplement, given the exposure to risk and the risk of contamination; the equalization of the occupational disease scheme of workers with public link to that of workers with individual employment contracts to end inequalities; the professional, social and remuneration valuation of health professionals, through the valorization of careers, adequate remuneration and other components of the remuneration, which recognises the specificities of the work provided, which guarantees the appropriate working conditions and the creation of an exclusive arrangements in the SNS, of an optional nature, and their respective plan of incentives. We propose the creation of a work medicine service in all health institutions where there is still no health; the strengthening of training in the field of public health; the allocation of physician and family nurse to all users, considering the importance of primary health care in monitoring users; the strengthening of mental health, through the placement of a psychologist by family health unit, customized health care unit and community care unit. We propose the strengthening of the number of acute beds, intensive care, continuous and palliative care; the modernization and enhancement of the capacity of diagnostic and therapeutic equipment; the guarantee of a strategic reserve of individual protective equipment; the creation of a strategic reserve of drugs and devices; industrial conversion to increase the production capacity of clinical material, drugs and fundamental equipment, in order to reduce our dependence on the outside. The reality has shown that the SNS is a solution and it is this way that the PCP will intervene and fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u323	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service and its professionals are, for more than three months, continuously every day to respond to the epidemic of COVID-19 in Portugal. The National Health Service has shown to be fundamental and indispensable for anyone in this country to stay behind. While, for example, in the United States — this liberal mana — where there is no national health service and the system works for health insurance, EUR 1 million is charged for treatment to COVID-19, in Portugal, with the National Health Service, is guaranteed the right to health to all people, without difference. While in Portugal, the private sector closed, sent workers to layoff, said only to receive patients if they were coupled with their check or admitted to want to make COVID a real business, the National Health Service kept serving and protecting the population through public health, tracking, monitoring and surveillance of risk contacts, through primary health care, treating and caring for those patients who are at home, and through hospital care, accompanying patients who need hospitalization. The National Health Service is essential to the country and today faces a huge challenge, perhaps the greatest of its existence. at the same time that it has to maintain the response to COVID-19, the National Health Service needs to recover the activity that has been suspended in recent weeks, it needs to resume the planned activity and need to strengthen responses to needs that have become increasingly visible and emerging, even with the epidemic, such as mental health. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the answer must be to strengthen the National Health Service. The answer does not pass, as the CDS-PP proposes in its draft resolution, by rewarding those who failed the country in the most dramatic situation we live in, from public health, for many decades to this part, it does, yes, by strengthening the National Health Service. in this sense, the Left Block brings the debate and the vote on the initiative presented here. And why is this initiative going on? It goes through plans for the recovery of the activity, with increased funding and resources for the institutions of the National Health Service ; it passes through the final hiring of all professionals who have been hired temporarily and, in addition, by the hiring of even more professionals; it passes through a system of remuneration for the recovery of activity that allows to increase the operating hours of services and operating blocks of the National Health Service ; it passes through the autonomy of the institutions, which has also proved essential for the day-to-day response ; it passes through the unburocratization of processes and attachment of institutions to a true telemedicine; and rather, it achieves what the Left Block has already included in the State Budget for 2020, which is a series of measures within the national mental health plan. These are the recommendations that the Left Block here brings to strengthen the National Health Service, so that it continues to respond to COVID and can recover the activity that was suspended and resume its main activity. Why do we need to make these recommendations? Because the government has not implemented these measures, no matter how logical they are, nor does it seem to want to apply them when we look at the Supplementary Budget by 2020. Therefore, it is essential that the Assembly of the Republic tell the Government that the way is by strengthening the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u325	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, you now have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the two Budgets for 2020, in terms of health, leave to solve what is most essential: the problems of sustainability, negotiation and review of wage tables, acquisition of fundamental equipment, investment in proximity health, hiring of human resources and a plan to reduce waiting times. But last night, after hearing Mrs.Minister of Health, 5 For the Midnight, we looked forward to solving these problems, since she told the country that the careers of health professionals were following the palms. We hope that the Government will be even available to solve the problems of health professionals'careers as well as the parties present in this House, which can already prove this by approving the NAP draft resolution. It is clear that with COVID-19, there was a need to reorient much of the health responses, giving an increase in unexpected expenditure, a further worsening of the waiting lists and the limitation of the response capacity of various services to other types of diseases. Once again, the SNS was tested and demonstrated the high competence and delivery of its professionals. The Government cannot continue to postpone a timetable to reduce waiting times. in this sense, the NAP brings to this House a draft resolution with 26 health proposals. The network of public health specialists corresponds, in Portugal, to half what it should be. The epidemiological risk of societies today is not that of previous decades. But the government continues not to tell us how many public health specialists will effectively hire or will only take advantage of the technologies and wear-out of the tireless professionals who run to contain the outbreaks. Due to insufficient public health experts, other professionals have interrupted their activities, assuming functions in which they are not specialists and aggravating waiting lists in the services. About 40% of health professionals are over 60 years old and will retire over the next five years. We know that the words of the Supplementary Budget still do not respond to all these needs. We know that this virus will have more outbreaks before it becomes endemic. We need to strengthen the line of prevention this time and ensure a lower sacrifice of everyone next time. Only with better prevention policies can we in fact alleviate the SNS. Only by reducing the burden of disease can we guarantee greater availability of resources and resources. The focus may not only be on the fight against the disease, it should also, fundamentally, be on the promotion of health. In order to restructure the SNS, more determination is needed by the government to speed up competitions, hire professionals and unlock contracting processes already approved, such as 40 nutritionists and 40 psychologists, but also to value careers, defining incentives and compensation measures for health professionals in Portugal. The SNS cannot continue to lose its professionals of excellence. The robustness of the SNS requires the responsible autonomy of its institutions for prompt and appropriate decision-making to the needs of clinical activities. Investment in innovative equipment and technology, training and knowledge sharing, energy efficiency of spaces should be priorities of the Government. The national mental health plan, which has seen some investment, cannot only come to the tow of crises. Mental illness is an individual, family, social, economic and political problem. Mental health prevention and care must be transversal in primary care, in school health teams, in the intervention of psychological emergency teams in the community, in work medicine, in the hospital context. It is important to give priority to what is priority, because there is nothing left without health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u327	To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most critical period of the pandemic caused by the new coronavirus, which forced the confinement of the generality of citizens in their homes, has aroused the country for a set of issues that are most relevant to the robustness of the answers to be given in any circumstance, but above all, also in times of greater vulnerability. One of these questions corresponds exactly to the importance that all citizens have recognized, and recognize, the National Health Service and its role in responding to a public health crisis with the dimension of what we are living. In fact, and without surprise, it was not the private sector, guided by the logic of profit, which provided the necessary answers. The pillar of the emergence of the actions that were imposed, and which continue to be imposed, was the National Health Service, a conquest of 25 April, determining to comply with the constitutionally consecrated right to health. To all health professionals it is not too much to acknowledge and thank the effort and commitment they have dedicated and continue to dedicate to the country and to all citizens. But the greatest respect that can be given to these professionals is not to ignore the difficulties they face in this pandemic crisis, many of which have been living for many years in their daily work in the National Health Service. The SNS has been targeted by chronic under-financing and under-investment, implemented in insufficient budgets but also by the closure of proximity health units or by reducing valences of hospital units, by the degradation of facilities, by the shortage of family doctors and doctors of other specialties, by the lack of number of nurses, by the small number of the most diverse technicians, among so many other questions. This is obviously reflected in the speed of the response that is given to the citizens, who are often faced with huge waiting lists. At the same time, it is a source of food from the private sector, where many diagnostic tests are referred. The truth is that the poor functioning of the National Health Service corresponds to the consecration of vulnerability and a risk to society as a whole and also to the lower capacity of response in crisis situations, where all the professionals of the National Health Service are asked to give in these conditions everything they can. At present, in the face of everything we have been living, it is not justified that the country does not join in a national design that is absolutely essential: to provide the National Health Service with more professionals and more technical means, so that these professionals can act in security and so that the citizens can obtain the answers they need and the right they have in their right to health. This is why it is essential to assume that the country needs more public investment to strengthen the National Health Service, and therefore « The Greens » today bring to discussion a legislative initiative that aims to recommend to the Government that, on the one hand, promote strict lifting of all the needs of the National Health Service, either at the level of hiring health professionals, either at the level of strengthening equipment and intervention in health facilities, and, on the other hand, to create an investment programme in the National Health Service, in the medium term, with multi-annual forecast, which breaks the logic of chronic under-financing of the National Health Service ; and finally to make public either survey or the investment programme referred to in the previous points, so that all citizens can have access to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u329	After the presentations of legislative initiatives have been completed, we will move on to the other entries. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already said that the health system has only been able to respond to this pandemic because it has stopped treating other diseases. Two months ago, we had hundreds of thousands of queries and surgeries postponed and, meanwhile, the Ministry of Health stopped updating the data, which alone is a bad sign. We have already said here, too, that we must thank the sacrifice and effort of all health professionals, starting with the SNS, who are excellent, despite the SNS and not due to the SNS. We have also said several times that our health model is not the American – this is on our website – but BE apparently does not have the Internet, or prefers to discuss bad faith. He may be the most likely. Finally, we have already said that it is the SNS that continues to have insufficient capacity, a reality that the pandemic has only made more evident. For us, people and health come before ideology, so it is urgent to use resources available in the social and private system. [[BE's protests.]] Because a Portugueseman who is said to have to wait a year for a consultation, rather than just wait a month to be cared for in the social sector or in the private sector, is getting bored for whether the service is rendered in public or private, whether it is your problem solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u331	If you have money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u332	The State does not have to be the provider of all health care, it has to ensure the conditions for everyone to have access to it. Therefore, the Liberal Initiative defends here, once again, the extension of the SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) and the SIGA SNS (Integrated System of User Access Management for the National Health Service) to the social and private sector, as a solution to recover the time delay of the surgeries and consultations that the COVID-19 created and also to expand the future response capacity of the entire system. The parties of this House can ensure that thousands of Portuguese will have their health problem solved in less time. It is simple, it is enough to vote in favour of the proposal of the Liberal Initiative in the Supplementary Budget, because, as we have already said, health has neither ideology nor can it wait.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u333	Mr António Maló de Abreu has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is easy to diagnose that the National Health Service, seen as a whole, is ill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u335	In the time of the PSD government / CDS was the bleeding!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u336	Although there are those who sell and buy, by mistake, the narrative of the miracle of roses, the same people who proclaimed the Queen of Saints in their time will decide whether, in this burdening pasturage, they have not put any more burden on the shoulders of such good people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u337	This is no longer used since the Middle Ages!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u338	Because for many Portuguese access to the health they need is a sacred way, and the procession came out of the dock long before the pandemic. We see the numbers on access to health care, prior to COVID-19 : decreased the number of surgeries scheduled in hospitals between 2017 and 2018 and decreased the number of medical consultations present in primary care between 2015 and 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u339	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u340	The average response time for patients operated increased from 27 to 39 days and the number of patients waiting for an operation increased from 197 to 245 thousand. No one is so scared when the number of desperate patients increased by 24%. This is the truth, because this was the reality of exclusion in access to health care before the pandemic, in a document signed by the government itself and which I reproduce here, I stress and I do not shut up! Given what is said, we know that our access to the SNS has deteriorated exponentially this year. It is also true, in view of the current situation, so much so that the Minister acknowledged this: only until April were to carry out, in primary care, 840,000 medical consultations and one million nursing consultations, and in hospital care 51,000 surgeries, 400,000 emergency services and 540,000 specialist consultations were postponed. The brutality of this evidence reveals a worrying degradation of the National Health Service that calls upon us, summons and obliges us, social democrats. Therefore, in line with what we think, we say and do, we will vote today in favour of all the proposals that bet on the recovery of SNS consultations, examinations and surgeries — strictly yes — and we will vote against — strictly not — what comes from those who do not have a compass and, with shame, has left professionals and has abandoned patients to their fate but now asks for Christmas bandages.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u341	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u342	We have only one priority: people! But the real, bitter people who suffer silence and the people are not, nor will they ever be, numbers to embellish statistics. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u343	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I was a little disappointed today. The leader of the Greens Ecological Party did not again refer to the right-wing government and the disaster that the right-wing has been in Portugal. He forgot about it, if he hadn't had-CL- would-have done it. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, with his usual style of preacher, had forgotten today to speak in Brazil and his Brazilian friends, among many other things he usually talks about.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u345	Is he here today? Oh, my God! Did you show up today? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u346	I understand why you didn't speak in Brazil. Recently, there was a leader of the Left Block to make a demonstration in Figueira square, with very few people, in which behind it was the flag, imagine, of the PT (Workers' Party), the most corrupt party in the world. And there was the Left Block, with hands given with them, for a demonstration almost zero, almost without anyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u347	After all, he did not come to the health debate! He just came for a walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u348	I'm just sorry that the Left Block doesn't realize that there are employees, professionals, good people in the health, private and social sectors. I am only sorry that the blindness is so large that they are not able to give at least one praise to those hospitals that have remained open, who have kept beds available, who have remained in the front line—at least about five—of the fight against the COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u349	The five you want to privatize! The five you want to sell!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u350	When the blindness is so big we move all these families, all these professionals, but then we have some who go to the private health service itself, which I'm not going to mention here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u351	Tell me who they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u352	It reminds me of an old Left Block Euro MP who said bad about private school but had children in private school. This is called something, it is called hypocrisy, which is the most common in the Left Block, in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u353	Have shame! Go report to the consultant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u354	At least when they talk about these professionals, they should be ashamed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u355	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u356	...to not give them the welcome they deserve for the work they have also done, also to your families, also to ours, because they are Portuguese and there are no Portuguese first and second. There are Portuguese workers in the health service, whether public, private or social. You should learn that! [[Protests BE and ENP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u357	Go sell gold visas that this is good for gold visas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u358	It doesn't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u359	Today, she decided to show up!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u360	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in this debate, we discuss a set of draft resolutions aimed at strengthening the investment and response of the National Health Service in this period of resumption of the planned activity. The high priority identified by the State Budget for 2020, presented by the Government of the Socialist Party, Mr Deputies, was precisely the area of health, with a strengthening of its considerable investment and which everyone recognizes. None of us at that time knew the challenge we faced with the arrival of the pandemic. More: it is clear to all that the National Health Service here had an answer which could only be given because we never gave up on it, Mr. We never give up the SNS and its defense is one of the marks of socialist governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They also recognize that it was the response of the SNS, its professionals, clinicians and non-clinicals, which allowed Portugal to go through this pandemic without ever losing its ability to respond, without ever being overcome by such critical lines that could put us in the dramatic situation that other countries had to face. We are now at a stage of recovery and recovery and the Government has presented here the Economic and Social Stabilization Plan to respond to the crisis caused by COVID-19. From then on, with regard to the strengthening of the SNS, the planned care activity is gradually being resumed and its response has been reinforced with the increase of hospital consultations, focusing on the specialties that are most expected. The increase in surgeries also has a boost of EUR 26 million for the recovery of 25 % of the surgical activity, also focused on specialties with greater expectation. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also at the level of the appreciation of health professionals is planned to hire more than 2995 health professionals, among nurses, doctors, technical, operational assistants and others, whenever possible offering them employment stability. These responses given by the PEES meet what are many of the recommendations that the different draft resolutions we have analyzed today express.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u362	That's why you're going to vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u363	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolutions we are considering today indicate in its resolution a set of proposals that have already been made or are being implemented or are planned to be implemented by the Government. As an example, it is recommended that the Government invent the needs of goods, services and human resources required to respond to COVID-19. Mrs. Members, this is already done permanently in conjunction with DGS ( Directorate-General for Health ), the Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority ), the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) and other entities. The Government is recommended to promote telehealth services. This has been precisely what has happened and is clearly visible in this crisis, with the growth of non-present care by 41%, and now also in the hospital activity of telemedicine there is more than 35%, compared to the same period of the previous year. The strengthening of programmed activities and the increase of surgeries is foreseen in the ESP and the budgetary strengthening to increase the response to the health crisis and guarantee the stability of the SNS strategic reserve is foreseen in the Supplementary Budget with an increase of EUR 504, EUR 4 million, which adds to the EUR 941 million of the 2020 State budget that I have already mentioned. I could continue to give examples of recommendations which, in some way, are already planned or are already practised, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. What these draft resolutions intend to resolve is already in its current majority or, then, are proposals that do not have any kind of practicality, so we will not be able to accompany the project proposers here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u364	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u365	We will therefore concentrate on the approval of the Supplementary Budget for the realization of the strengthening of investment in the National Health Service, which we all aspire to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u366	Let us turn to the end of this debate. To that end, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is very good to take the question exactly where the Socialist Party Member has left it, i.e. in the supplementary or amending budget, to say this: we have all had the opportunity to discuss, even in the field of expertise, that this amending budget adds to the State budget EUR 500 million. However, of these EUR 500 million, 80 % are only to pay the invoice of the COVID-19 — fans, tests, personal protective equipment — and therefore only 18 %, about 90 million, are in practice the investment we are discussing today, which is the recovery of the care activity that has to be done and which is now resumed. Moreover, I note that of these EUR 90 million, the government has allocated only EUR 37 million for this recovery. Madam Member, only in SIGIC the government owes EUR 46 million, which soon gives an idea of the insignificance that these EUR 37 million are for this recovery. Perhaps this explains why the government, when setting a recovery target by the end of the year, says that of the 1, 4 million consultations that have been left behind—is the government itself that says so— only undertakes to recover 230 thousand. Maybe that's why... So, said in a very simple way, honourable Member, the government, as it does not want to spend more money on Portuguese health, uses the waiting lists to manage the budget. He wants to control the costs and, therefore, the people who wait! And this is what the Block and the PCP also think well, they also think very well. [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] As the answer is fully focused on the SNS and there is only this money to spend on the SNS, the control variable is waiting lists — people waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u368	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u369	But the CDS can't accept this. We cannot accept this, because we know that there is at least one solution in the meantime to make this recovery. This solution is to go beyond the capacity of the SNS. It is not to say that the SNS, Mrs. Member, is, in addition to the capacity of the SNS, to contract and use the capacity of the system, as a whole, to respond to people,... [[Protests from PCP MP Paula Santos.]] ...contracting, as I say, with the private and social sectors. We will always insist on this because it is logical and because the health of people is above the party wars, which seem to be the only enthusiasm for the parties on the left of this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u370	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We will move on to the eighth item on the agenda, of which the evaluation of 11 initiatives, namely: Draft Resolution No 490 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the conditions necessary for the functioning of higher education and research at this stage of the epidemiological outbreak; Bills No. 391 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a new contest for CI & DT projects in all scientific domains, 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Suspends the expiry of employment contracts of workers of institutions of science, technology and higher education, 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an extraordinary mechanism of debt regularization for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19, 439 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of measures to strengthen support in the context of school social action in higher education and 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers and students of public higher education; Resolution Projects Nos 465 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to strengthen social action in higher education in combating the crisis of COVID-19, 466 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to respond to the health, economic and social crisis of COVID-19 in higher education and science, 488 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat abandonment in higher education following the COVID-19 pandemic, and 493 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends emergency support to the Government to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Let us then begin with the presentation of the NAP initiatives. So you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of COVID-19, the institutions of higher education have once again demonstrated their high sense of responsibility, in this case closing educational and non-formal activities present as a way to reduce the risk of internal contagion and in the community. But they did not limit themselves to their closure. Each institution has adapted its methodologies and processes and many have been able to support its students with greater economic difficulties. Once again, they demonstrated their fundamental role in the development of society. Without a doubt, they are an excellent partner for the knowledge, planning and evaluation of measures implemented in any sector of society. We even realize that we could have saved a lot of money in the country if, during the period of prevention, we had waged in the investigation and development of tests and other materials. Inevitably, this context has left bare many inequalities and many weaknesses. The Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education has already said that higher education must set an example in the opening of present classes in the coming academic year, as a way to give a signal to the whole society that it is possible to do so safely. But even earlier in the debate on education in this Parliament, the Socialist Party said that it was unable to make plans about reducing the number of students per class in September, because none of us knew what it was going to be like in September, about the outbreaks or the contagation chains. If, on the one hand, the Minister for Education says he cannot decide now, the Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education already knows that everything will be present. We ask whether the sources of government will be different. We are not surprised that the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education is more diligent, and we are even surprised that the Amending Budget does not include a strengthening of funds for higher education. It is precisely because of the needs of higher education that the NAP has addressed this debate, which we hope will contribute to solving the problems we all know. We thus bring to this House a recommendation for the Government to support higher education institutions at this stage of the epidemiological outbreak, preparing for the next academic year, including the strengthening of the School Social Action, so that no one has to leave their future, the result of the inequalities that may be living. in this context, it seems essential to us to develop a strategy that aims to encourage higher education and research in Portugal, preventing the abandonment of higher education and ensuring research in Portugal. For this purpose, the inclusion of an additional amount for the support of students not covered by the DGES study grants ( Directorate-General for Higher Education) will be essential and, as a result of the CVID-19, they are unable to remain in higher education. We also propose that in the examination of applications for scholarships be considered incomes at the date of their submission, on the basis of reference the previous month and the possible change in the economic situation. We propose that the National Plan for Accommodation in Higher Education be revisited and that the necessary adjustments be made to the current context and the negotiation of contracts with local housing entities for the removal of the needs of students displaced without a vacancy in university residences and without offering compatible with the income of the family. We know that, with the worsening of family difficulties and the risk of leaving young people because of these reasons, the response of an extraordinary mechanism for regularizing debts for non-payment of propines for registered students — either in STESP (higher professional technical course) or in undergraduates, or in masters — and that they are in a situation of greater economic difficulty, is fundamental. There is also a need for greater investment in the inclusive education network, in higher education institutions. Finally, it is necessary to ensure that, in this exceptionality, the conditions necessary for the development of the work of teachers, students and researchers are created. We therefore propose the extension, for 90 days, of the deadlines for the expiry of all employment contracts in institutions of science, technology and higher education and the readjustment of performance assessment mechanisms according to the limitations imposed by the COVID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u372	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic crisis makes itself felt not only about the health problems that we are experiencing today in the academy but also about having depolated a set of social and economic problems for students, teachers and researchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u374	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u375	The crisis is not just a pandemic and health crisis. The crisis is also a serious problem of increasing school dropout, a serious problem of financing higher education institutions and is a serious problem of losing income from families, these students, researchers and teachers. That is why, not only during the period of confinement but after that same period, the Left Block did not give up presenting in the Assembly of the Republic a set of measures strengthening not only the fight against the health crisis but also, at the same time, the mechanisms of social action, in order to protect the most vulnerable in higher education and science. Let us begin precisely by combating the health crisis. One of the problems the students experienced was precisely confinement, which caused difficulties with the internet connection, with lack of technological material, and also a mental health problem, the result of this same confinement. The Left Block therefore proposes not only the capacity of the State, of the Government, to negotiate with operators a better and faster internet, but also a programme for the issue of technological material, because many students, as well as teachers — I repeat, also teachers! — they do not have access to it at the moment, until they share this technological material in each of their houses. At the same time, there is a very important issue, which is the defence of labour rights and the supervision of any abuse or harassment of higher education workers. The pandemic crisis, the confinement, the state of emergency we live cannot represent an offshore work rights in higher education and science. On the other hand, social action needs to be strengthened. We have been doing an important job in recent years, but at the moment the social action emergency funds have been crucial, particularly for students who were not entitled to the scholarship and who in this period were undergoing a very serious acute crisis. An urgent plan for accommodation is also needed. In addition to the structural discussions that we have had, especially in the last two years, we will need to plan the hypothetical return — although partial — of students to their higher education institutions and the departure of students who, for the first time, attend the first year and who will have more difficulty going early to the cities where they are going to study. It is therefore necessary to provide for all these conditionalities. On the other hand, there is still the issue of mental health. Mental health, as we have already had the opportunity to say, has been a poor relative of the National Health Service. Consequently, social action services also need to be strengthened in this regard. We also have a project, which we have already presented in the past, concerning the mechanism for regulating the debt of propines, for which we are available to discuss the best way out to ensure that students who do not have money can pay later. Finally, we defend a new call for research projects. Researchers were also in a period of confinement and it is important to invest in science. She's the one who can save us from this crisis. So we need these researchers not only for now but also for the future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u376	To present the draft laws of the PCP, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problems of higher education that we are discussing today are the result of the circumstances we all know, but they are also reflected in a previous situation of underfinancing and commercial logic that has been widely applied in this sector, in which the precariousness of labour relations abounds and in which a higher course is increasingly a luxury that most cannot afford. The situation, which was no longer good for students, workers and higher education institutions themselves, has become worse with the outbreak. The entire academic community was precisely required to adapt to the new circumstances, but conditions must be guaranteed for this. In the face of old and new problems, what is really needed is to find solutions. Therefore, as we have done a month and a half ago, with the proposals to defend scientific employment — which were rejected by the PS, the PSD, the CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival — the CFP today brings a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers and students and measures to strengthen social action in higher education. Students and their families are experiencing serious difficulties, because all existing obstacles have become walls: we talk about tips, rates and 'taxes', housing costs, lack of residences, lack of scholarships and insufficient value. You already feel the consequences. There is already school dropout and many don't know if next year they'll be enrolled. In order to prevent thousands of young people from leaving their course and their dreams, more than immediate aid, cross-cutting measures are needed in this school year and in the next one that removes frequency barriers in higher education. More residences are urgently needed and we propose that the monthly value of the rooms be fixed and not increased, such as an increase in the accommodation supplement. It is crucial that scholarships correspond to the real needs of students. To do so, they must address the worsening economic situation and must be reassessed in agile, rapid and clear manner so that their value will be increased and more students will arrive in the next year and really face the costs. in a situation like this, with all the pedagogical problems of distance education, when it existed, with all the economic problems of families, more than ever it is necessary that students are not excluded from the scholarship for any lack of use or for possible tax and tax irregularities. It will be demanding times for everyone and it is not fair for students to have a knife permanently on their neck, an authentic invitation to abandon the academic course. In view of the pedagogical difficulties and follow-up of non-present classes, access to all periods of examination should be ensured, with preferential assessments and suspension of prescriptions, as should be ensured that students are not impaired in access to a new cycle of studies, if they have not completed the previous one. Other measures are fundamental to the workers of the institutions. The situation is already difficult for you to add injustice. That is why we propose that the right term contracts should be extended and that the same should apply to the delivery of theses by the teaching of polytechnics in transitory terms. For exceptional times, for increased needs, for old and new problems there must be capable answers. That is why the CFP also presented an investment plan in higher education and science to, inter alia, implement contingency plans, hire workers and address new needs for cleaning or decoupling classes, reduce access and frequency costs in higher education, combat school dropout, support student associations. They need means and this is a fight that the CFP has never escaped. The question of financing is the source of many of the problems, but it is also the key to solving them. There is political will for that! We cannot allow higher education to come out weaker, more elitist, less democratic and less quality of this outbreak. Today, as always, knowledge is, and will be, not a expense but a fundamental investment to move the country forward. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u378	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u379	Mr President, my intervention in this plenary is becoming a bit monotonous. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have discussed 11 initiatives — by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, by the PAN, whose initiative has almost 25 points, being almost an electoral manifesto, by the Bloc, by the PCP and also by the CDS in matters relating to higher education and science, as a result of the COVID-19. In fact, it is a bit like a pot-porri of initiatives and themes, from support to students to the work issues of teachers and researchers, going through the FCT contests (Foundation for Science and Technology). Finally, it becomes very difficult to have a clear, informative and responsible discussion when there are so many questions, with a short grid and a broad agenda. We are having this discussion when, at the same time, the proposals for amendment, for discussion in the field of expertise, of the Amending Budget, or Supplementary Budget, and many of them do not find materialization there, which is still an interesting way to make politics: to mark the agenda, but then intentionally to escape by assuming the consequences of the political positions that are taken here. This is not the case with the CDS. What we are presenting today for discussion is the same as we are presenting in the Budget as a proposal. We are aware of the fact that the use of distance learning in this second half of the year has already been said here, and it has been said to us by numerous entities with whom we meet, that the use of distance learning in the second half of this year, uncertainty as to the pedagogical solutions for the coming year and, above all, the sharpening of the economic crisis, which will have an effect on students and their families, has led to greater difficulties in coping with the costs of studying in higher education, especially in the case of displaced students. All of us here — as I know — hope not only that there will not be an increase in dropout in higher education but, if possible, that 40 % of graduates in higher education will continue in 2023. For the CDS, this is now guaranteed by strengthening the allocation of the social emergency funds of higher education institutions and also by strengthening the school social action for the school year 2020 - 2021, through the eligibility threshold. In essence, what we are asking is that the fulfilment of the commitments that the guardianship has in the legislative contracts be accelerated, in view of this current and grueling reality. We also believe that it is important to ensure, at the moment, that students who work part-time to pay their courses can do so, on the one hand, without being harmed at the tax office and on the other hand without losing the scholarship they have. What is clearly incomprehensible to us is that the Socialist Party and the Government have not included anything about this reality in the Reformary Budget, opting only for a symbolic note which, in essence, is to allow the continuation of the school social action grants between the 1st. o and 2. or cycles. Nothing else points to reinforcements in this direction. It seems to us quite inconsistent, very inconsequential and great social insensitivity, especially when we heard Minister Manuel Heitor in this Parliament several times saying that the social action at school was indeed the way and that it would be reinforced, first, by 2023 and then later in the parliamentary contracts. What we are asking for now, and we will also ask for it in the Amending Budget, is simply to speed up this compliance, because we cannot close our eyes, on the shame that there will be a great abandonment of students from higher education in the coming academic year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u380	Madam Member, if anyone can complain of monotony, it will not be due to your interventions. Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira also presented a draft resolution and will have the floor to present it. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative recommends emergency support to the Executive to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the current context of the COVID-19. It is not necessary to reaffirm that it is essential to create the necessary conditions so that more individuals can successfully attend and complete higher studies, precisely because we are interested, as a society, to extend the hypotheses of higher education than most national youth. That's not just investing in social action. This is to invest in tomorrow, it is to invest in a society that effectively recognizes the importance of each university and each area to improve national conditions and, above all, to advance equality. So we must never forget the social action service, which is indeed one of the rare instruments in universities that extends this scope and that extends the hypotheses of greater equality, being an instrument to combat social exclusion, elitism and segregation. My legislative initiative is solely aimed at responding to the expected economic difficulties of higher education students, particularly at the beginning of next school year, with the focus on strengthening social action in higher education, including the expansion of student housing and the improvement of housing policies, taking into account the current pandemic. I am talking about strengthening the funds for the social action system, coming from the State's Supplementary Budget. I am also talking about the creation of an additional social support line for higher education students and the strengthening of housing valences.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u382	Initiatives are being presented. Let's move on to the other interventions. Mrs. Isabel Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The troubled times we are living since we were hit by this pandemic have changed the lives of teachers, students, researchers, fellows, families, universities and polytechnics, but have not changed the will of students to return to universities and politics and continue to invest in their higher education. The next school year is surrounded by a great uncertainty about the outbreak of COVID-19, with the possibility of a second break in the next winter. It is urgent to define the model for the next school year. What we have known so far from the Minister of Higher Education is the statements made last week, when he announced that the next school year is to start in a face-to-face way. Won't the Minister and the government be alleging this high degree of uncertainty associated with this new virus? The situation created by this pandemic will bring serious social impacts and the government in its Supplementary Budget ignores these facts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD monitors the generality of the proposals referred to in these draft resolutions and in these draft laws, having submitted an own initiative in this regard. We believe that the Government should create muscular support measures for students and also for higher education institutions that need financial reinforcement in order to ensure their survival. Yeah, it's survival we're talking about. If the scenario of the next school year is based on a hybrid learning model, e-learning, on-campus and online, synchronous and asynchronous moments, the PSD argues that the government should create a technological adaptation program that includes investment in support technologies, content production and teacher training, as well as the strengthening of infrastructure, the acquisition of mobile devices and access to the Internet for needy students attending higher education. Economic vulnerabilities should not be grounds for exclusion. Therefore, in addition to strengthening school social action funds, the PSD recommends a social scholarship program that prevents school dropout. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education and the Government cannot continue to pretend that everything is all right, that there is no problem and that it is not necessary to prepare in time the essential measures to minimize the foreseeable effects on the frequency of higher education. from here a few weeks may be too late and if things go wrong Mr. Minister can only blame himself, his inability and inoperability. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u384	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the end of March all higher education institutions have been closed and most of the classes have been given away, through the use of technological means, and more practical courses or classes that would require physical presence have been seriously compromised. Many will be the difficulties in returning to attend classes and many will be the students who will stay behind due to lack of income from their families. Yes, unfortunately, the exceptional moment we go through will leave many students of higher education behind. The costs of attending higher education vary from travel, on the continent or on the islands, to residences or rooms and to the most diverse materials. Many will be the hardships that university students will still have to face, many will be those who have endured even under adverse conditions, because it was not only in basic and secondary education that there were weaknesses in access to technological tools and even to the Internet. Yes, with the pandemic it became even more clear that higher education students and their families make a great effort to pay the exorbitant price of propines and were still forced to pay also rooms that they did not use during the mandatory confinement. Again, under the hat of university autonomy, it was possible to happen a little bit of everything: those who had technological tools and those who did not; those who had classes and those who did not; those who managed to follow the university plan and those who were left to their fate. "Don't leave anyone behind" was the slogan so often said and so many others ignored, because they lost income or because they couldn't follow the pace of work and classes. If, on the one hand, there are restrictions on the offer of accommodation for students displaced to attend universities and polytechnics, on the other hand, the greater uncertainty affects the ability to cope with numerous expenses, including propines, which will condition the access and continuity of the frequency of university courses in the face of severe loss of family income and the numerous unemployment situations affecting, above all, the younger ones. They affect, in particular, the workers-students, many of them with professional activity in the area of tourism, trade in large areas and restoration, economic sectors strongly committed to the consequences of the pandemic. The Greens consider that we are living times of emphasis on social inequalities, so measures are required to mitigate the economic and social constraints associated with the start of the new school year in higher education in order to prevent school dropout in academic education. This is the time to take measures that allow us to keep no one back and that this is not limited to just a slogan. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u386	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before you get to higher education, there is a long way to go, and in this way you will regret that this year students who wanted to improve their grades in national examination have not been able to do so. Faced with the obvious injustice of the government's decision, these students did what they could, sending messages and e-mails to Members and creating petitions. Some parties, including the Liberal Initiative, made proposals to give them this opportunity, but were all rejected by the Government and the majority of this Parliament. Why? The only explanation is that teachers' interests are worth more than students' interests. It is thus hypothesized the future of thousands of young people to please those who have power and know how to pressure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u388	They can always go to summer college.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u389	The truth is that trade unionists vote and these young people do not yet vote. Most parties prefer to be good with the unions, we prefer to be with the young people, even if that does not give votes. As for the next school year, the Minister responsible for Higher Education said that higher education "will certainly be present" and that it is up to the institutions to adapt to the health rules. That makes sense, not only in higher education as in all teaching cycles, but your Education colleague has not shown the same will nor is he prepared to plan whatever it is next school year. It was no longer enough to have one country and two systems, now we have one government and two visions. What's common? In both cases, young people are affected. A whole generation is a victim of one's electoral interests and the incompetence of others, but an entire generation that the Liberal Initiative will always continue to defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u390	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Begonha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live a time of great uncertainty caused by the pandemic in recent months and we do not know what the future will be like, but we already know the difficult economic and social situation in which the country is and the crisis that naturally affects students and their families. All — from the Government to Parliament and the institutions — have been called upon to present new answers, new solutions, some of them forced, such as distance learning, for a first stage of response. Yes, we have little certainty, but there are some consequences that are undeniable. This pandemic has hampered the academic course and the future of many young people in our country, affecting those who will first enter higher education, those who already attend it and those who want to enter the labour market. Once again, in a very short space of time, a crisis seriously affects those most unprotected by precariousness and poor housing. Among them are, of course, the younger generations. If there is uncertainty and uncertainty, there is also the certainty that it was in the State, in strengthening the support of public higher education that resided and resided the answers to the obstacles and inequalities that our students experience. The many who resort — and will certainly be many more, in the near future — to emergency aid and extended deadlines for scholarships know that the State has not failed them and that the government has taken decisions. to the various who may have stayed behind, the state and the institutions cannot fail again. For those who have always defended that the social state was at the door of higher education and that it exists for those who can pay or owe themselves, it is time to converge with those who, like the PS, defend an increasingly universal and democratic higher education. [[Congrats from PS Bruno Aragon.]] In recent years, government, left-wing parties and student movements, year after year, conquered after conquest, built the building that allowed to cope with this first wave of social crisis in 2020 or reduce its intensity, because, despite the many difficulties, the lower tips and the higher scholarships made the difference. Despite being ignored by many of the projects, I remember that in the next school year, once again, students will benefit from lower tips, higher scholarships, automatic transfer of scholarship in 2. the cycle and the increase of the housing complement, with enormous impact on the lives of students and their families. To recognize this collective effort of the Government and of various parties of this House and to recognize the advances for the next school year is not to grant that the work is done or to devalue the contribution made to the effectiveness of the response in various projects under discussion. We follow the need to stop penalizing students and their pathways with debts with tips, in particular students with less resources, as proposed by the NAP and the Left Block, and share the concern of the PCP project so that the year 2019 / 2020 will not be counted for prescription purposes. We therefore express our willingness and willingness to contribute to these issues in the field of expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u392	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to Mrs Bebiana Cunha's intervention to close the debate, I wonder if there are more entries for interventions. [[Pause.]] Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u393	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to say, at this stage, that it is important to open up several parliamentary groups that have shown in relation to the various proposals put forward. This is good because, even if the Ministry has been late in some of these answers or, even if it has not given any kind of answer, it is good that the Assembly of the Republic takes a position on them. We obviously endorse the concern about combating school dropout, and we are glad that there is openness by the Socialist Party to some of the proposals that we have put forward and we do not fail to say that the two main proposals that the Socialist Party has spoken about — and very well! — on the strengthening of democracy in higher education, the two proposals which the Bloc was able to adopt in the previous State budget: more scholarships and less propensity. We are pleased that this victory is shared and therefore we are on the right path to ensure more students in higher education and more support. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u394	To close the debate, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u395	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the conclusion of this debate, I cannot fail to recall that, according to the survey made by the Observatory of Social Responsibility and Higher Education Institutions, higher education institutions have implemented nearly 1000 social responsibility actions, mainly dedicated to COVID-19, since the extension of the payment period of the neighbours to emergency financial support, support to the repatriation of students, support in the loan of computers, accommodation, meals, etc. These decisions of higher education institutions must, of course, have the support and investment of the Government, and that is what we hope will happen, including in the context of the Amending Budget. We hope that there will be such an opening. We cannot fail to welcome the other parties who have accepted the NAP challenge and have brought projects to debate and we can already say that in general we will follow the projects. However, we show concern about some aspects and call for them to be resolved, in the field of specialty, such as, for example, in the process of regulating the left block propines, which is forgotten from the students of the technical courses of higher education and, in the case of the Bill No. 439 / XIV / 1. the PCP, in which we are concerned that we want to reassess all the awards allocated, because it seems to us that this will cause real chaos in this process. If, on the one hand, the law provides for the obligation to report the change in the socioeconomic situation of the aggregate, it seems to us that the NAP project introduces the possibility of aggregates which have fallen more than 5 % in their incomes to have created an extraordinary mechanism for payment of propines. I can't help but say that I didn't know that the NAP had submitted 25 proposals, although it wasn't 25 or 27 if you wanted to count on the bills. from the NAP, it remains to be said that nothing bothers us that the CDS presents four proposals, and even if the fourth point is already settled in the law it will not be why we will leave the follow-up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u396	He's not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u397	Finally, on the side of the NAP, we are available to resolve any issues in the field of expertise and to continue this dialogue on a topic as relevant as this one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u398	We have thus concluded the eight items on the agenda, and we will therefore start the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u399	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u400	Mr. Deputies, is it for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u401	Mr President, it is to speak to the Bureau in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u402	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u403	Mr President, it is to sensitize you and, through you, Mr Exa, the President of the Assembly of the Republic to the extent that this week, we had two sessions, on Wednesday and Thursday, which ended between 17 and 17 hours and 30 minutes, and today, on Friday — when there is a large group of Members who have their families, have their lives and even have parliamentary activity in the afternoon — we are still here at 15 hours. I would like to sensitize the Bureau so that we do not give this disregard to Members who do not live in Lisbon. It is normal for Members who live in Lisbon and who still have other activities, on Wednesday and Thursday, to go to their offices to work, but who is not from Lisbon has the penalty of being here until this hour. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u404	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u405	Mr President, we have your opinion and we will all be aware of it, but, as you will understand, the Bureau has no answer at this time. I now ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the Vote Project No. 266 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — regretting the death of Dame Vera Lynn, so that we can then proceed to their vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is of the following content: « Lady Vera Margaret Lynn died on June 18, at 103 years of age. Born on March 20, 1917, Dame Vera Lynn became one of the most famous British singers and composers. Known as the ‘ dear of the Armed Forces ’ — ‘ Forces Sweetheart ’ — the singer was the voice of hope in World War II. His songsWe’ll meet again and The white cliffs of Dover were, at the time, a symbol of encouragement to the British, motivating the soldiers on the various fronts of battle, as well as the families waiting for them in Britain. Dame Vera Lynn sang her songs to the British who took refuge from the German bombings at London subway stations, arriving to visit British troops in Egypt, India and Burma. More recently, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Queen Isabel II was inspired by one of these songs to pass a message of encouragement to the British: ‘We will meet again’, the monarch told the nation. After this speech, the British gathered in a collective corner of this hymn. Its place in the heart of all British was officially recognized, when it received the Supreme Order of the British Empire in 1969, the title ‘Dame’ in 1975 and the Order of Companion of Honor in 2016. Dame Vera Lynn devoted much of her life to volunteer work and solidarity with children with disabilities whose parents had been soldiers, as well as the cause of breast cancer. She was greatly admired by the veterans of World War II and in 2000 was appointed as the British who best represented the spirit of the 21st century. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Lady Vera Lynn and expresses sympathy for her family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u407	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 264 / XIV / 1. (presented by the Commission on European Affairs) — Congratulations for 35 years on the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Portugal to the EEC. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from BE and CH.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the vote on the draft vote No 265 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on European Affairs) — Congratulations for 35 years on the Schengen Agreement. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from BE and CH.]] We then voted on a request by the PS, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No 37 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter to the Budget Framework Act. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Therefore, this bill will fall to 5. the Commission for 30 days. We now have three requirements for voting, which, because they are related, and if there is no objection, will be voted together. The first application, submitted by the PS, calls for the discharge of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 15-day vote of Bill No 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Interpretation of Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May, clarifying its subjective scope of application. The second application, submitted by the PSD, also requests discharge from the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 15-day vote of Bill No 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May 2012. The third application, submitted by the NAP, also calls upon the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 15-day vote of Bill No 420 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an independent mandatory assessment of the impact on the medium and long-term sustainability of public finances and the economic and financial viability of public-private partnership contracts ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May ). Let us therefore vote together on these demands. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Thus, all these bills are down to 5. the Commission. There are three further requests: the first, submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets and Finance, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 260 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Reparation of tax injustices against pensioners; the second, submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the same Commission, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 441 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons, clarifying the application of Article 74. the ; and the third, submitted by the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge to the same Commission, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 410 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Interpretation of Law No 119 / 2019 of 18 September, clarifying the scope of retroactive application of Article 74. the IRS Code. We shall vote together on these demands. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These three bills also go down to 5. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 426 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening the capacity to respond to social security. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 345 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of TAP and SPdH. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 369 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Public control of TAP and SPdH. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 419 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the use of public funds relating to the TAP for its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic. [[Subject to the vote, votes were cast against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and the non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 430 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recovery of public control of TAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 428 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Extraordinary programme for the recovery of consultations, examinations and surgeries. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodriguese abstained from the NAP.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 419 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Plan for the recovery of planned activity in the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 438 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency Plan for the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 449 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prioritize investment in the structural and operational needs of the National Health Service and the appreciation of all its professionals. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We then voted on Resolution Project No 453 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reinforcement of investment in the National Health Service. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Then we vote on draft resolution No 490 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government recommend the necessary conditions for the functioning of higher education and research at this stage of the epidemiological outbreak. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 465 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to strengthen social action in higher education in combating the crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] Then we proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 466 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends measures to respond to the health, economic and social crisis of COVID-19 in higher education and science. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 488 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to combat abandonment in higher education following the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the abstention of BE.]] We will now vote on an application submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, without a 30-day vote of the Draft Resolution No 493 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends emergency support to the Government to strengthen social action and student housing in higher education in the context of the current pandemic crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution goes down to 8. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 391 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a new contest for CI & DT projects in all scientific fields. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] We will vote for a request submitted by BE, asking for a discharge from the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The Commission shall therefore, without a vote, move on to 8. We will generally vote for Bill No. 424 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Expiry time limits for the employment contracts of workers of institutions of science, technology and higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] It therefore places the Commission at 8. We are now going to vote on a request by the NAP for a discharge from the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee, without a 15-day vote of Bill No. 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an extraordinary mechanism of debt regularization for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions as a response to COVID-19. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It thus lowers the Commission to 8. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 439 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Approves a set of measures to strengthen support in the context of school social action in higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u408	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u409	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u410	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that the PAN will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u411	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is followed by two requests. Although they are related to different matters, if there is no objection, we can vote for them together. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will vote together: the first, presented by the PCP, asks the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee for a 30-day vote of Bill No. 440 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers and students of public higher education; the second application, submitted by the ENP, asks the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a 90-day vote of Bill No 94 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creates greater justice in the right to benefit from disability due to illness or occupational accident. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We then proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 188 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Alter the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November strengthening the rights of workers in public service in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall now proceed to the joint vote of two requests: the first, submitted by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for 90 days of Bill No. 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reimposes the right of public officials to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases; the second, submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 90-day vote of Bill No 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall earning capacity. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] So they go down to 13. the Commission, without a vote, for 90 days. We then voted on the Resolution Project No 79 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — At the end of the public financing of intensive and superintensive agricultural crops and bet on the ecological transition. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u412	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u413	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u414	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u415	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 502 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary measures to combat child poverty, which will be voted on point by point at the request of the PSD. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL.]] We are now voting on point 3 of the draft resolution. Mrs. Members, point 3 was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, and votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u416	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u417	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u418	Mr President, I am sorry, but my accounting doesn't match yours. The votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL give a total of 115 votes, thus having a draw. It will therefore be necessary to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u419	If there are 115 votes against, there are no abstentions, there is indeed a tie in the vote. We must therefore make a new vote, insofar as that is the criterion of dismissal. Let us then vote again on paragraph 3 of draft resolution No 502 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). [[Resubmitted to the vote, she had votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with a second draw, point 3 of this initiative is rejected. We shall proceed to the vote on point 4 of this diploma. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] The vote on point 5 shall follow. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] Finally, we voted point 6 of draft resolution No 502 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 467 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Support for non-governmental environmental charities organisations in the context of the COVID-19 crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance on Bill No 350 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Establishs fiscal measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PS.]] In the overall final vote, we will also vote on the final text, submitted by the Health Commission, on Decree-Law No 20 / 2020 of 1 May, amending the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, as corrected by the Declaration of Corrigendum No 18 - C / 2020 of 5 May, of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers[ Parliamentary assessments No 12 / XIV / 1. a (BE), 13 / XIV / 1 a ( PCP ) and 20 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). [[We voted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Members Ascense Simões and Maria Antonio de Almeida Santos and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u420	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u421	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u422	Mr President, it is to announce to the House that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u423	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory, on draft resolutions No 264 / XIV / 1, follows. a ( BE) — Recommends the modernisation of the air quality monitoring network, 287 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government measures to improve national air quality, 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthening of information, monitoring and characterization of ambient air quality in Portugal, 410 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the review and modernisation of the network of stations and substations for monitoring air quality in Portugal and the development and implementation of the Air Quality Improvement Plans provided for in the National Air Quality Strategy, as well as the development of an annual plan for mitigating impacts caused by air pollution to ensure the improvement of air quality throughout the national territory and 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote improved air quality in Portugal. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on draft resolutions Nos 41 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Saving the coastal forests: short and long-term commitments, 42 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — By the defense of the pinhal of Leiria, 43 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the fulfilment of forestry criteria under the National Lawn Recovery Plan and 49 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recovery, monitoring and monitoring of the valuation of the National Leiria Forest. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS MP Simões and votes against PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u424	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u425	Is it for what purpose, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u426	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u427	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha will still make some announcements to the House. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u428	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I announce that you were present at this meeting by video conference. Members of the PS Marta Freitas and Olavo Câmara and PSD Member Sérgio Marques, elected by the circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, PSP Member Paulo Pisco, elected by the circle of Europe, and Mrs. Members of PS Paulo Porto and PSD José Cesario, elected by the circle outside Europe. I also announced that they had entered the Bureau, and they were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 536 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government support for farmers affected by the end of May weather in the Central and North regions of the country and 537 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends support for LGBTI associations and collectives in the context of the epidemic crisis. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-26.u429	Thank you very much, Secretary. It remains to be remembered that our next session will be on Wednesday, 1 July, beginning at 3 p.m., listing from the agenda the Government's Question No 6 / XIV / 1. the, requested by the Left Block, on the response to COVID-19 in Great Lisbon in transport and housing. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus done with our work, which is going on for hours. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 15 hours and 40 minutes.]]
