ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of authority. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mr. Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolution No 679 / XIV / 2. a ( Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees ) — proposes a referendum on the ( des) penalty of death on request and the Bills No 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), 550 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 551 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 552 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u3	Let us then begin our work with the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 57 / XIV— Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality. Mr Constance Urbano de Sousa has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing the veto of the President of the Republic to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 57 / XIV — The ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality. The veto of Mr President of the Republic was basically linked to the innovative rules introduced into the system of acquisition of nationality derived from marriage or de facto union with a Portuguese citizen and which basically reflects, in our legal order, the principle of promoting unity of nationality in the family. The objective of these standards, which were now vetted, was clearly inspired by a standard that was introduced into our Nationality Law in 2018 and which was enacted by Mr. President of the Republic. Its aim was, in essence, to protect the interest of the Portuguese citizen who has a foreign parent in the unit of nationality of his family. And, from the perspective of the Portuguese citizen, the norm cannot be considered discriminatory in relation to other situations, because, when there is no Portuguese citizenship there is also no interest that can be protected. From the perspective of the foreign spouse, or foreign partner, of the Portuguese citizen, who has already benefited from a very large and very generous system of access to Portuguese nationality, the observations of the President of the Republic are indeed relevant. The Socialist Party therefore proposes the elimination of these rules as a way of overcoming this obstacle, given that today we already have a regime which is perhaps the most generous in the world with regard to access to nationality by a foreign citizen, married or indeed united with a Portuguese. Moreover, the great purpose of this law was not even this. It is this objective that must be — and is — safeguarded, which is the objective of deepening the right to land, so that the children of immigrants, the children of all immigrants, can have Portuguese nationality when they are born in national territory. As for the Left Block proposals, we will not be able to follow them for various reasons. First of all, because they are hardly in accordance with the principle of effective nationality and even remind a little of the automaticity of marriage within nationality, which is now prohibited by the European Convention on Nationality. Then, clearly, they open the door to a fraud to the law and also to a fraud to the principle of protecting the unity of the family's nationality, which aims, precisely, to protect the true families and not families that constitute links of mere convenience. Thirdly, we do not follow these EB proposals either because they are very tax-paying from the wrong perspective of the Nationality Law. The Law of Nationality does not serve to regulate migratory flows, but only to establish who the Portuguese people are, who they are who have with the national community, organized in state, an effective link and therefore must be members of that community, they must be Portuguese citizens. Of course, foreigners who are married to a Portuguese or indeed united with a Portuguese already enjoy a broad right of entry and residence in the national territory. This is not about any discretionary power of the State. The Organic Law No 2 / 2006 confers a full right for these citizens to enter and reside in national territory, so the way of nationality, in addition to being not suitable for this purpose—in fact, it does not even serve this purpose—in no way benefits the migratory status of a citizen married to a Portuguese, who already has a full right, if we wish, to reside in our territory. That is why we cannot follow the proposals of the Left Block. In short, the PS presents these amendments, which go fully to the meeting—and welcome in their entirety—the relevant objections by the President of the Republic, especially with the aim of allowing a rapid entry into force of this diploma, whose central aim is to deepen the right of soil in the territory of nationality, allowing the children of immigrants born in national territory to be Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u5	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, due to a veto by Mr President of the Republic, Parliament is again faced with having to discuss the ninth amendment to the Nationality Law, which we adopted at the end of the previous legislative session with a broad consensus. It is never too much to remember that it was on the proposal of the NAP, and on the basis of a joint effort made at the centre of discussion in the specialty, that we were able to correct in the Nationality Law a historical injustice that existed too long ago, in relation to a group of citizens who, living in our country in 1974, could not retain Portuguese nationality due to Decree-Law No 308 -A / 75 of 24 June, although they had their residence and their ties here. This injustice was perpetual and extended to their children and descendants, who did not obtain the nationality of the only country they knew, their homeland. This historical injustice is not of little importance, since, over the decades, it has given rise to situations of non-documentation that have contributed to a serious ostracization of these citizens. Visible ostracization on such small issues as access to driving license, ostracization that brought inequalities in access to education, health or decent and rights employment. Basically, this was an ostracization that left the so famous social elevator standing for thousands of citizens, which is regrettable. The least we could do, as a sovereign body and as a country, was approve of this proposal, more than just, of the NAP and confirm today the broad consensus we had here a few months ago. But in particular with regard to the veto of Mr President of the Republic, the NAP cannot fail to note that the same is, at least, strange. This is because Mr President vetoes a diploma on the basis of criticism of rules whose essential meaning has not been changed and which, curiously, correspond to what was contained in the amendments to the Nationality Law introduced by the Organic Law No 2 / 2018 of July 05, promulgated, is imagined by the same President who now vetoes. This situation seems to legitimize the idea that this veto seems to want to hide, under formalism, a greater divergence than, for convenience, should not be assumed. We do not know why, but we cannot fail to point this out. In any case, and because we are discussing the lives of the citizens, we will vote in favour of the proposals put forward by PS and the Left Block, even though we consider the ideal to be the approval of the solutions proposed by the Left Block, which in a clear way ensure progress on citizens' rights. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u7	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr President of the Republic has decided to return, without enactment, the Decree of this House on the ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, which approves the Law of Nationality. This is, in our view, a decision, or rather a veto, which affects a very specific and very specific matter and which does not in any way flout the essential thing which, in the Greens' perspective, was intended for this diploma. And the essential thing for the Greens is to enshrine in the Law of Nationality the principle of jus soli, for the purposes of acquiring originating nationality, which would allow the children of immigrants born in Portugal to obtain Portuguese nationality. In fact, Mr President of the Republic's reparations, and which, moreover, are based on his decision, are solely on the rules providing for the exemption from the specific, generic scheme for couples connected by marriage or de facto union with children in common, children of Portuguese nationality. It happens that these rules, i.e. Article 3 (4) and (5). Article 9 ( 2 ) and ( 2 ). the, in the wording of the Decree which we now make, raise some problems, which are related to the fact that the situation mentioned in the diploma leaves couples without children, as well as couples with children of Portuguese nationality but who are not children in common, in an unfavorable situation with couples with children in common. And therefore at the reading of Mr President of the Republic, this powerful solution or it is likely to boost discrimination that should be avoided or removed. Nevertheless, we believe that this House has all the conditions to adapt this diploma in order to remove any evidence of discrimination which, of course, no one wishes, thus exceeding the reparations expressed by the President of the Republic and, at the same time, ensuring that it is essential to guarantee this legislative process, i.e. to enshrine in the Law of Nationality the principle of jus soli for the purposes of acquiring original nationality, which would allow the children of immigrants born in Portugal to obtain Portuguese nationality. on the part of the Greens there is full availability to monitor all proposals for amendments that they seek or which aim to overcome the repairs which have substantiated the decision of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u9	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u10	Mr. President and Mr. Members : We hope that we will conclude today, from the point of view of the Assembly of the Republic, a legislative process that is already long and that has been protracted with issues that were not initially for the authors of the legislative initiatives under discussion, but that, in a way, they have interfered with this process and that today, long months after we have begun, we are still here trying to close this legislative process. It is important to remember that what was approved in general and that was then submitted to the assessment in the field of specialty were two bills that aimed at different but relevant issues. The NAP bill aimed at the issue that Mr Nelson Silva just referred to and the PCP bill aimed to deepen the principle of jus soli, allowing more children born in Portugal, children of non-nationals, to acquire Portuguese nationality. For us, this has always been the main purpose of this bill: to pursue a line of deepening the jus soli, which has already taken a few steps in recent years, but which, from our point of view, it is still important to deepen, and not create a legal situation in which children born in Portugal, who will live in Portugal because their parents here can not have Portuguese nationality of origin. Such is unfair to us, and that is indeed our great purpose. Of course, we all remember that, during the discussion in the specialty, the process was troubled. It was troubled by other issues, which did not have to do with the original initiatives, which led up to months of heated discussion. This was the case, for example, of the problem of the allocation of Portuguese nationality to descendants of the Sephardic Jews, a question which was put in the seat of specialty, which was controversial and which ended up withdrawing in accordance with the terms in which it had been proposed. And we have reached the global final vote at the end of the previous legislative session, already with the procedure decided on on this point. Then Mr President of the Republic drew attention to another point, which did not include any original initiatives, was introduced into the specialty and which, in fact, did not raise much controversy. But, finally, Mr President of the Republic points out, in fact, that the provision allowing Portuguese nationality to be acquired by marriage does not depend on this acquisition of the duration of marriage with common children. Mr President of the Republic has said that this is discriminatory for couples who, having children, children are not common and couples who have no children, because they do not want or cannot. From this point of view, we are not disturbed by these objections and therefore we are perfectly available for this possibility to be removed, as the Socialist Party proposes. from our point of view, the resolution of this problem accommodates what is essential for us. We believe that it does not make much sense, at a stage when we are considering a diploma following a presidential veto, to be reopening the whole legislative process as if we were at the beginning. So what has been proposed at the outset has already been discussed in a timely manner in this House, and now it is a matter of accommodating the will of this House on what was consolidated in the legislative process, with the objections which Mr President of the Republic has raised and which we do not find to be devoid of any relevance. in this sense, we will follow the proposal made by the Socialist Party and also proposals whose content, even if it is not restricted to this, deserves our agreement. It seems to us that we are finally in a position to bring this matter to a complete conclusion and to conclude what is essential to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u12	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. It is essential to deepen the jus soli principle, which will be very important for many children who are born in Portugal and who deserve Portuguese nationality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u13	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing here the Nationality Act. Mr President of the Republic has decided to veto the diploma, invoking objections, some unclear, and considering discriminatory provisions which were already contained in the original wording of the law and which, so far, no one was contesting. As we have stated in the initial debate on this diploma, the principle position of the Liberal Initiative is that whenever anyone, in accordance with the law, opts to demand Portuguese nationality, is implicitly recognizing the advantages of being Portuguese, eventually material, affective or other advantages. Whenever this recognition is accompanied by an equivalent recognition of the obligations, which are also to be Portuguese, we believe that the requirements for being Portuguese are met. We therefore tabled today a proposal for an amendment aimed at meeting Mr President of the Republic's objections: on the one hand, reducing the difference between the necessary period of common life, in marriage or in de facto union, of couples with and without children in common; on the other hand, recognizing that same period of life as sufficient to assume the existence of an effective link to the national community. Finally, we also propose the elimination of Article 14. the, since we see no justification for the right to apply for Portuguese nationality is limited by the time and age at which the affiliation is established.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. Being Portuguese is much more than a matter of blood and is not just a matter of soil. To be Portuguese is also today much more than the country that is the Portuguese language, of which Fernando Pessoa spoke, that great Portuguese who spent so many years outside Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u17	I inform the House that there are already more Members enrolled than enough for the votes. Therefore, the benches may proceed accordingly. Mr Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here again to discuss the amendments to the Nationality Law, one of the fundamental laws of our legal order. We are talking about the law that establishes and which determines who can be Portuguese, who has political rights exclusive to nationals, and who we are going to have as Portuguese citizens in the future. So our nationality is something that we should be very proud of, it is something we should esteem and it is not something that should offer ourselves to break down, as if a promotional campaign were being treated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u19	Therefore, the PSD cannot be in favour of legislation that does not properly value the form of allocation of our nationality. Despite some specific changes—for example, those which the PSD has driven towards foreign Portuguese spouses, or those driven by other parties in relation to Portuguese grandchildren, which we voted for and which are positive—the PSD cannot, consciously, be in favour of legislation which, in its entirety, treats a foreign child who is born in our territory better than Portuguese, Portuguese spouses and Portuguese grandchildren we have spread around the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u20	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u21	To these, since the Assembly of the Republic of Portugal, and on behalf of the PSD, I send a special greeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u23	Indicating the veto of the President of the Republic on a very particular aspect of the amendments to the Nationality Act, it is, moreover, different from the greatest differences we have had here and derives from the understanding that it is politically unfair, or discriminatory in nature, the allocation of a disadvantage of treatment to the foreign spouse of a Portuguese national without children or that it has children who are not in common, by favouring the foreign spouse of a Portuguese who has children in common Portuguese. The question now arises is that of the presumption of a family relationship in relation to a couple who have children of Portuguese nationality, in particular because of the principle of nationality law, which is the principle of family unity, which, in this veto, is confronted with the principle of non-discrimination. But the reason for the veto is healed by the amendments tabled in relation to this aspect in particular as proposed by the Socialist Party. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have, above all, another opportunity for this House to reflect again on what it wants with the Law of Nationality. We have another opportunity not to approve legislation that will pave the way for, one day, those born in national territory to be automatically Portuguese, as were the left proposals, which were then softened, softened, by the Socialist Party's proposal, still with a deepening of the sole jus which, in our view, is too wide, in particular when compared to the way we treat jus sanguinis. The PSD had already warned that any change to a law with the importance of the Nationality Law should be made with great sense and weight. But by taking advantage of this veto, taking advantage of this new discussion, it is given another opportunity for all parties, especially the parties on the left, to better weigh on whom Portuguese nationality should be attributed. A law that attributes nationality to any individual born on Portuguese soil, being sufficient that one of his parents has resided here for a year, which may be legal or not, means an immense facilitation to a European passport. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u24	I recall that until 2018 five years of legal residence were required. In 2018, two years were required and legal residency. Now, the left has joined, as has been customary, and has changed this requirement for a year, serving any residence, whether legal or illegal. In conscience, we cannot agree with this path. In everything that the PSD board depends on, we will continue to fight for Portugal to never be a maternity occasion. It remains for me to leave a more sensible appeal to the rest of the bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u25	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Significant changes have been made to the Nationality Act, one of which, most importantly, was the deepening of the principle of soil law in the allocation of nationality. Although the law continues not to guarantee the automatic allocation of Portuguese nationality to all persons born in Portugal, regardless of the nationality and legal status of the parent or parent, as we have defended — and well — in all the amendments we have tabled, we have made important progress. The Decree now in review, approved with the favourable vote of the Left Block, represents an advance and also represents the recognition, in the law, of the diversity that exists in the national community. It does not resolve all the injustices that people who do not know another land are targets, it does not remove all the obstacles that are placed on foreigners who aspire to obtain Portuguese nationality, but it has the merit of improving, even in part, the conditions of access to fundamental rights. This conquest is the result of the determined struggle of anti-racist and representative organizations of migrant people who, denouncing the bureaucratic and legal wall that denies, the children and daughters of foreigners, the rights and their belonging to the national community, have placed on the political and media agenda the intransigent defense of the rights of citizenship of all people born in Portugal. The Left Block has always been in this struggle, assuming over time the firm commitment to correct this historical injustice. The expectation of thousands of persons deprived of Portuguese nationality, who await the enactment of the law, reveals the urgency of their approval. The veto of the President of the Republic and the consequent re-evaluation that we should be given the opportunity to remove some of the obstacles that the law still preserves and prevents the full inclusion of migrant communities in Portugal. The proposal for a review which we are now presenting includes amendments to the articles highlighted in the veto of the President of the Republic. First of all, we propose an amendment to Article 3. the, in order to make it depend on the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by foreign person married or united with national citizen exclusively of the declaration made in the constance of marriage, in the hypothesis of marriage, and the issue, by the respective board of parish, of declaration of recognition in the case of de facto union. We do not accept that the rules in force for national citizens cannot be applied to foreign citizens. There's no justification for it! This amendment promotes the extension of the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by unequivocally improving the law and responds to the concerns expressed by the President of the Republic. by dissociating the acquisition of nationality through marriage or by de facto union, of the duration of the bond or existence of children in common with Portuguese nationality, we ensure that the law facilitates the acquisition of nationality to foreigners, married or united with national citizens, when they have children in common with Portuguese nationality, when they have no children or have children with Portuguese nationality who are not children in common. Secondly, we propose an amendment to Article 9. o. In our proposal, in paragraph 2, we maintain the wording of the existing decree and add paragraph 3, which eliminates the possibility of opposition to the acquisition of nationality by will, in the case of an alien married or united with Portuguese, with the basis of an absence of effective connection to the national community, assuming that the existence of the family bond establishes the link to the national community. These amendments constitute another important step towards achieving a fairer and more inclusive law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u27	I now give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to say, firstly, and within the concordances, that we subscribe to what has been said here in relation to the importance and relevance of the matter. I would even say that, in any country and in any parliament, there is no matter more important than nationality, which is what ultimately unites us and determines who is or is not Portuguese. Secondly, I would like to say that, within this discussion between jus soli and jus sanguinas and on the weight and relevance of any of the criteria, historically we were closer to having a jus soli as a determining criterion and we had a greater relevance of jus sanguinas. We have sought to have some balance that has been, from some time to this part, progressively unbalanced to the side of the sun juice. This is not the fact that both criteria are not relevant, and taking, in fact, my talent, which will not be much, in some more poetic reflections that I have heard here, I would like to remind you that, in fact, our connection to a nationality is always, to some extent, the connection to a quin of land which, in many cases, has seen us born and which, in many cases, will also receive us one day. This is in fact the relevance of sun juice, but the connection to this land is obviously in our blood, in the blood of our descendants, in the blood of many and many Portuguese scattered around the world, in a nation that is, obviously, much larger and with a much greater dimension than its territory — that is the reality. That is why what the left-wing parties have defended, done and proposed, year after year, legislature after legislature, without even allowing the previous solutions to be matured, as has been said, and well, it is a mistake. We had, in fact, a five-year period, reduced it to two years and now we are going in a year, without even wondering whether the entry into Portugal was legitimate or illegitimate, whether it was legal or illegal. This is an absolute mistake, from our point of view, and an error that this amendment not only does not stop, as it encourages and has very wrong effects. We are in favour of rigour in entry, we are in favour of all kinds of humanism, we are against all kinds of discrimination in integration, but approving a law of this kind, made, in my opinion, with feet — literally, because whoever puts his feet on Portuguese territory becomes considered Portuguese — is an absolute mistake and an absolute need. Finally, Mr President, with regard to the veto in particular, I would like to say that the basis for the veto of the President of the Republic is another: the existence of possible discrimination. Faced with that, what could we do? To say 'then, if there is discrimination, it does not apply to anyone' does not seem to me to be very curial in the context of the veto and the matter we are discussing. Therefore, we will maintain our position of principle. We will vote against the amendments that would lead to even greater enlargement, keeping our idea that the Law of Nationality was as well as it was. We are against the amendment. We have a restrictive view of this, because we believe that the proposals for amendments result in a decline in Portuguese nationality, which is what we want to value most. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u29	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u30	Mr President, it may be said that this Law of Nationality has good things and original things, but those that are good are not original and those that are original are worse than good. [[PS and BE protests.]] In fact, we are facing a norm and facing a veto of the President of the Republic made for one reason only: by tactics, since he wanted to give a signal out, but not a sign for the Socialist Party. Another truth has to be said, too: the Socialist Party has yielded to the extreme left in the Law of Nationality. It is sufficient for the Portuguese to know, today, that they no longer distinguish between legal residence and illegal residence to realize that it makes them enter Portugal well, with documents or without documents, lawfully or illegally, or illegally, in order to subsequently obtain nationality. Today, we can turn around this law, call it just alone or call it what we want, but the truth is that it transmits this idea outside: "Come in anyway, hide out, if you can, because from now on, someone from your family has to receive Portuguese nationality. Do not keep on seeking. ” This distinction does not open the portal that is no longer a nationality for the soil or a nationality for the blood, but to a nationality attributed regardless of the reasons being legal or illegal. It is a nationality close to being a criminal or, at least, close to being thus attributed. That is an unforgettable reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u31	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. Tomorrow, when we look at this Law of Nationality, we will be able to say many things, but it is not about humanism that we will speak: it is a nationality that has forgotten what is being a national of a country. That's what this Nationality Law was.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this first item on our agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u34	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u35	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has no time in this debate. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira invokes the possibility that the Rules of Procedure will give her a 10-minute speech for each legislative session, but I do not think that this happens in this context, in which there is a grid of time previously defined and in which Mrs Deputy's intervention is not expected. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you just for a moment while the Bureau clears this up. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira invokes another article of the Rules of Procedure, specifically Article 145 ( 4 ). o. And you are right because, under this article, you have the right to use the same time as the only representatives of a party — in this case, one minute — in five debates during each legislative session. So, after this intervention, which will be 1 minute, it's still 4 minutes. Indeed, you have the right to speak for one minute in this debate. Madam Member, thank you for clarifying the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that there has not been any real progress made in improving the current Nationality Law, but, nevertheless, these advances, these improvements, have a huge impact on a more framed legislation that has a more humanizing view of individuals who require nationality. This is not any legislation. This legislation has a huge impact on the existence of thousands of individuals, on their expectations and, above all, on legislation related to a number of highly complex issues, namely identity and community membership. I will accompany all legislative initiatives and suggestions for amendment that are related to increasing citizenship and greater equality. But today it is important to highlight something here: what benefits for the State, for the society of the exclusion of citizenship to an important part of the individuals who are part of it, in a daily way, and who constantly contribute to the national fabric...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u37	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u38	What are the benefits for the State of the exclusion of young black people born in Portugal between 1981 and 2006, which to date remain without access to nationality? We know the impact that the lack of recognition of citizenship has on their lives, on their expectations and on the enormous difficulties that they have of social inclusion. I would also like to point out that I do not see any difference in assigning nationality to a child who has a father or mother who has been in Portugal for 1 year or giving him nationality at the time when this individual is born in Portuguese soil.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u39	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u40	Nationality is not an element that can be decreed in terms of legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u42	There are many young people who do not have nationality, but who still feel that they are part of the national fabric. It is up to us not to push them away.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u43	When there are these requests for intervention, we must comply with the rules: the Bureau, on the one hand, and the honourable Member, on the other. Let us then move on to the second point of our agenda, which is from the re-evaluation of Decree No 59 / XIV—The first amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, which establishes the Basics of the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area. Mr Emília Cerqueira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can view the veto of Mr. President of the Republic to the decree that he intended to amend the Law on the Basics of the Order and Management of the National Maritime Area as a step backwards in the use of the potentialities of the sea or we can entrust it as a second opportunity to rethink the diploma and, in a balanced manner, together with a strategic vision, to introduce to him the improvements that are necessary in order to enhance the use of this strategic asset and contribute to putting it in the centrality that is required. For the PSD, the veto of Mr. President of the Republic is clearly an opportunity for the Assembly of the Republic to adopt amendments to the Law on the Basics of the Order and Management of the National Maritime Area that really serve the best interests of the continent and the Autonomous Regions of Azores and Madeira, in a word that serve the Portuguese and Portugal better. This law is crucial to the development of the Portuguese sea and, consequently, crucial to the development of Portugal. It is a comprehensive and integrated law, an innovative law that sets out the framework for the planning policy of the national maritime area, its articulation and compatibility with the planning instruments, in particular with plans for the situation and the allocation. Even so, we understand and follow the initial motivation of the proposal from the Regional Legislative Assembly of the Azores, aimed at strengthening the powers for the planning and management of the maritime area adjacent to the autonomous regions, which we believe is possible and even desirable, provided that the integrity and sovereignty of the State is not concerned, as required by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, has already repeatedly been decided on this matter by the Constitutional Court. However, what has happened in the legislative process was, in our view, far beyond this strengthening. It was a stumbling block to the powers of the State and the autonomous regions. For this reason, the PSD bench presented, at the end of the overall vote, a statement of vote, where we have expressed our doubts and uncertainties about the text approved. At the time we warned about the risk of violation of the Constitution and expressed our fear of the formulation approved for greater inclusion of autonomous regions in the definition of the planning and management of the area of space adjacent to the Azores and Madeira archipelagos. What we believe is that the solution that the PS decided to approve would lead to conflict of interest situations that would impede the management and management of this same maritime space, thereby compromising its use in the perspective of its valorization and safeguard, with the aim of contributing to the sustainable development of the country and the sea. It was therefore pleased, but without surprise, that we received the presidential veto, which deals particularly with the amendments to the new Article 31. o -A relating precisely to autonomous regions. A further reflection on this matter is proposed to the Assembly of the Republic: in the case of marine funds it is suggested that the procedure should ensure effective conjugation between the State and autonomous regions through mandatory and binding opinion; in the same sense, in the case of activities for the extraction of inerts, fishing and production of renewable energies, the competence of the autonomous regions shall include the integrity and sovereignty of the State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD, which upholds the basic law of the planning and management of the national maritime area, has been available since the first hour to improve the procedures of the law or its regulations in order to deepen the participation of the autonomous regions without putting into question three essential vectors: firstly, the principle of integrity and sovereignty of the State ; secondly, the valorisation of the Portuguese sea, that is to say, does not become the ingesible Portuguese sea, as will remain with this proposal that we today appreciate, compromising its potential and valorization ; thirdly, the negotiating position of Portugal as a unique interlocutor in negotiations, whether at European level, in fixing fishing quotas, whether in the United Nations, in the essential process for our country which is the extension of the continental platform. The opportunity Portugal has at sea is enormous, let us not question it. Development through the sea by all is said to be fundamental and consensual. Unfortunately, however, the PS came once again, at the last minute, hastily, to present another proposal that has as its sole concern to prevent the possible veto of Mr. President of the Republic and not, as the Azores, Madeira and Portugal deserved, to take this last opportunity to develop and remedy this law and make it, really, in that law that Portugal needs, that the sea needs, and that it would put us as a strategic point, as indeed, the PSD so much punched. Too bad they didn't hear us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u45	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to thank Mr President of the Republic — we can say that he has truly "agreed and vetoed" — for this opportunity to stress the importance of the autonomy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. The decree we are now discussing is undoubtedly a very important step in the management of the Azores Sea. This sea which means so much emotionally for the Azorians, but which takes time to realize all its economic and development potential for the region. It is clear that the management of the Azores Sea cannot be decided on in the wake of the Azores, on the contrary, it is the Azorians who have to play a leading role in defining the management policy of their own sea. This is also so obvious that it is provided for in the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores: the powers of the Portuguese State in relation to maritime areas under national jurisdiction adjacent to the Azores are exercised within the framework of shared management with the Region. Only shared management will make it possible to value the Azores Sea, its resources and its geo-strategic value, based on the knowledge of the Azores, the result of experience, but also of knowledge produced locally, especially at the University of Azores. The Liberal Initiative has as an essential part of its programme the decentralization of competences, closely accompanied by decentralization of resources and decentralization of responsibilities. More freedom, more responsibility is our mantra. For all this, we have no doubt that this diploma is central to guaranteeing the Azorians — and not to confuse with the regional government of the PS, that everything wants to control in the region — the right to decide how to manage its own sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u47	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr João Azevedo Castro has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u48	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The autonomous regions of Portugal, the Azores and Madeira, provide the country with an incomparable Atlantic dimension in Europe and the world, with what most valuable and precious hold — the sea. It is fair and balanced that the country, represented here, promotes its participation in the areas of the planning and management of this resource. With the approval of this initiative, the Assembly of the Republic gives a clear signal of the availability to consider its regions and to empower them with an active voice in the interpretation of its desires and aspirations. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic empowers autonomous regions to participate in the definition of policies relating to territorial waters, the exclusive economic zone and contiguous marine funds. The Administrative Political Statute of the Autonomous Region of the Azores refers to the region as the competent authority for the private use of goods in the public maritime domain of the State for the extraction of inerts, fishing and production of renewable energy. It also points out that the other powers recognised to the Portuguese State over maritime areas are exercised within the framework of shared management with the region, except where the integrity and sovereignty of the State is concerned. The Law on the Management and Management of the Maritime Area in force, which is amended by this initiative, determines that the instruments for the ordination of the national maritime area are drawn up by the Government, with prior consultation of the governing bodies of the autonomous regions, as well as the instruments for the sorting of the national maritime space that concern the continental shelf, beyond 200 nautical miles, are drawn up by the Government, hearing the autonomous regions. It is therefore clear the need to correct the articulation with the Law of Ordering and Management of the National Maritime Area when it restricts the intervention of the autonomous regions to a prior consultation or a mere hearing, in a clear limitation of the power of participation conferred by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, or of shared management, according to the Political and Administrative Statute, also approved in this House. It is in this context that the XXII Constitutional Government Programme proposes to implement greater intervention by autonomous regions in the management and exploitation of their maritime areas by amending the Basic Law on the Policy on the Management and Management of the National Maritime Area. It was in this context that the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, on a proposal from the Regional Government, adopted unanimously, called upon the Assembly of the Republic to propose legislation No 179/ XIII / 4. a ( ALRAA ), aiming at the need to clarify the concept of « shared management », in respect of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Political and Administrative Statute. It was in this context that, after a broad participation in the specialty, involving four permanent committees of this Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic approved the proposed amendment of the Law on the Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area, sent for promulgation with the publication of Decree No 59 / XIV. Mr. President of the Republic returns to the Assembly of the Republic without promulgation, referring to aspects which should be of greatest importance to us. It considers that there is no sufficient reason for the preventive monitoring of the unconstitutionality of any of its rules, in particular those contained in Article 31 ( 8 ) ( 3 ). o -A. Further notes that these rules highlight the primacy of the integrity and sovereignty of the State, which render the primary powers over the public maritime domain indelegable. However, it considers that further and more precise consideration should be given to points (c) and (d) of Article 31 ( 3 ) of the said Article 31 ( A ). It also complements the reference to Article 8 ( c ), which will be gained by requiring codecision procedures to consist, at least in their essential tracing, of the sorting instruments provided for in Article 8 ( 3 ). the, thus ensuring the conjugation between state and autonomous regions in the definition of this trace. An addiction will fulfill that function. In point (d), it will be important to explicitly highlight matters relating to the integrity and sovereignty of the State by final addition. It is in this context that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents the amendment proposal, in order to correspond exactly to the views of the President of the Republic, which we believe are relevant. We will therefore vote in favour of this proposal, which also accords autonomous regions an effective responsibility and participation in the construction of the Portuguese Sea. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u49	For an intervention, I have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u50	First of all, I welcome Mr President and others. Ladies and gentlemen. at this time, we are reviewing the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 59 / XIV, which makes the first amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, which establishes the bases of the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area. Mrs. Members, for us, the fact that we are reviewing this decree only gives reason to the concerns which the CFP has already expressed, even in 2019, during the discussion of its degree in general and even in specialty, and which are essentially related to the full exercise of national sovereignty. What has caused us to doubt was precisely the amendments that this proposal produced in its Article 8. Article 31, as well as the introduction of a new Article. o -A. In our view at the time, the competence and integrity of the sovereignty of the State were not safeguarded. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems quite clear to us at the moment that what is important is to safeguard two aspects. On the one hand, as already mentioned here, the integrity of national sovereignty and the guarantee of State unity, and on the other hand, to reconcile this with the competences of the autonomous regions, and in particular with a matter such as this, sensitive, which is the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area. We might ask if it's easy. It's not easy, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not easy. But we need to find solutions to these difficulties. These solutions must be in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic and must at the same time comply with the Political-Administrative Statute of the Autonomous Regions. That is why the CFP believes that we are facing a matter — Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must have this consciousness—which must be a unit factor and not a division factor. And it is in this sense that when we look at the proposals that have now been put forward by Mr John Castro and that the PS Parliamentary Group here brings us here, that the CFP believes that these proposals are reasonable to respond to the demands that we have now put here, and we will therefore follow those proposals. Mrs. Members, we are all called for respect for national sovereignty, but as a factor of unity and not division. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u51	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the debate on the law of the sea, he jumped on the view that there were two very clear positions. On the one hand, there was the position of those who, at the height of their sovereignty, wanted to leave everything in the same, in the name of a supposed national sovereignty, giving short rein to the Azores, wanting autonomy to be a mere pity on the hat of the continent. And on the other hand, there was the view of those who, like the NAP, did not want to be caught up in an antiquated view of the autonomy of the Azores, intended to ensure important changes that would ensure that the region could have true autonomy and would have a word to say about the management of the adjacent maritime space. What would make sense a model in which the offices of the Land of Paço that made decisions alone on the management of the maritime area of the autonomous regions, in this case the Azores? What would make sense that the management of the Maritime Space of the Azores does not preponderance to knowledge, experience and knowledge of the local region? The Azores Sea cannot only serve for our country to say that it has one of the world's largest exclusive economic areas. The country must appreciate the importance that this sea has for the exclusive economic zone and must also recognize this importance through the forecasting of a shared management logic of this space and ensure the active involvement of the Autonomous Region of the Azores in that management. When we know that in the Azores there has been a worrying increase in levels of unemployment, this amendment also represents a way of creating jobs and generating dynamism in the economy of the region, because we do not doubt that strengthening the powers of the Azores in the management of the marine area could mean more sustainable and environmentally friendly management, since no one else is interested in preserving the region itself, contributing to the transition to a more sustainable economy and development model. However, in this debate we must also criticise the Socialist Party, since we all know that this simple amendment is limited only to achieving what the Constitution and the political status of the region itself already foresees for several years and which should have happened before. And it remains regrettable, after, in 2016, especially in electoral periods, in which we liked to see our Prime Minister bragging as a defender of the regions, having promised to carry out this amendment, we will now verify that nothing has been done to achieve it, which is a demonstration of the importance that the PS gives to the Azores. Having said that, the NAP, while considering that the diploma does not lack the excessive clarifications required by Mr President of the Republic, will vote in favour of the proposed amendments tabled so that this diploma can be achieved with broad consensus, thus meeting what is an attempt by the autonomous region itself, so that it can safeguard better management of its maritime area, in a deeper respect by the ecosystems and the biodiversity that the region itself welcomes. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u53	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u54	Mr President, this rule has the particularity of various parties and various parliamentary groups have drawn attention to the gross unconstitutionality it represented, and this law still makes political and non-legal verification possible. When Mr. João Azevedo Castro finished, the number of Members of the Socialist Party who didn't even applaud him... do you know why you didn't applaud him, Mr? Because they're going to vote against this rule. Members of the Socialist Party will vote against it because they know it is grossly unconstitutional what it brings here today. I am going to give you an example — and there is no need to think too much about it — that is the fact that the so-called sovereignty issues are not properly characterized in this diploma. [[Protests of PS Members.]] No constitutional court in the world will allow a standard to be passed with these characteristics.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u55	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u56	That's right, sir! Don't say it's not true, because it is. Such sovereignty matters are not characterized here, which makes the management of the central State, beyond 200 miles, merely residual. It is grossly unconstitutional, because it makes the central State a mere artifice in management beyond 200 miles. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] I tell you more: it will weaken Portugal's position in the United Nations, in the negotiation of maritime space, and even more serious in the fishing quotas for negotiation with the European Union. Therefore, this law is more serious than it seems and is much worse than it actually appears. It is a law that will destroy the negotiating capacity of Portugal and a norm that in no case this Constitutional Court, if you make a serene and weighted judgment, will let go.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. So let us see how many Members of the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this rule, which has only one name: unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u59	Mr Ricardo Vicente of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The people of the Azores have shown their dissatisfaction with the lack of autonomy of the region and with the limitations of the Law on the Basics of Maritime Policy and Management. It is good to remember that this law, which abolished the democracy of the Autonomous Region of the Azores and sub-alternized the regional administration, was created by the Government of PSD and CDS, but its approval also included the favourable vote of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u62	The Left Block considers that the governing bodies themselves must have an active role in the management of the maritime space adjacent to the Azores and Madeira archipelagos and that it is therefore urgent to empower local populations to decide and influence decisions on their own territory. This need was clearly evident with the two legislative initiatives adopted in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, one of which was based on the Left Block initiative. The Block therefore considers that the proposed amendment to the law currently under discussion represents an advance in view of the initial situation, even considering the amendments identified by the President of the Republic, which refused to promulgate the first amendment to the diploma. But we cannot fail to regret that this bill no longer goes beyond the allocation of autonomy to the autonomous regions, as provided for the proposal of the Left Block, because the economy of the sea is absolutely essential for the socio-economic development of the region. The enlargement of the continental shelf is opening up a set of new possibilities, some of which are of very high environmental risk. In this regard, the possibility of deep mining of the Azores Sea is a good example because the Government seems to be preparing to unlock reserves of high ecological value to an extractive industry, which will have enormous ecological costs for the economy of the Azores archipelago. What climate changes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u63	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u64	Although the Minister of the Sea defends the application of a 20-year moratorium on deep-sea mining, he seems to be alone in this proposal. The Minister of the Environment, the Government and the Socialist Party are blowing aside, a situation we can only consider regrettable. It is also regrettable that this matter has not been the concern of the President of the Republic in his analysis. Instead of giving local resources to the voracity of the market and finance, we need public policies for an economy based on knowledge, scientific research and technological development, with participatory and democratic foundations, which respond to the interests of the people. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u65	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u66	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that what is at issue with this veto and with the subsequent amendments can be discussed in all forms, but we are not discussing exactly what kind of industries is that the Autonomous Region, the Azoreans or even the Country will have or will not have, that is not what is at stake. Basically, we are on an essential point before that, which is that of architecture. We can divert the conversation anywhere else, but that's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the architecture of the system and shared responsibilities. Having said this, we obviously subscribe to what has been said by different parliamentary groups on the relevance of the Azores. On the other hand, we are clear advocates of an Atlantic vision and atlanticism of the country, on the one hand, being the sea and the relevance of the Azores the essence or greater expression, if we want, of this Atlantic Portugal. It will be enough to remember, as has been said so many times, that for those who see the continent, the last islands of the Azores are already on the American plate and not on the European continental plate. So that's the importance, that's what gives us dimension, that's what projects us and we clearly have this notion of the relevance of the Azores. On the other hand, we are also, from many decades to this part, a party that defends and respects the capacity of regional autonomy and, in this sense, we are autonomous. However, it is clear that there must be a balance between the vision of the importance of the sea, which, before being an Azorian, is Portuguese, and the interest of autonomy in this matter. From this point of view, I wanted to say that this matter has not appeared nor has it emerged now. This claim, which is very firm in the Azores, has already collapsed and has already plummeted several times when confronted with the constitutional issue. Let's see if that doesn't happen again. Remember Mrs Emília Cerqueira, and well, that was six times, so let's see if this will not happen again. Regardless of that, that is the point and the central issue. Will the changes that we now have on the table solve the situation or not? The CDS had a reserved position and, moreover, it is surprising to have heard an expression here today as, if I am not mistaken, because I am quoting by color, « a supposed national sovereignty». National sovereignty is not "supposed". The first, basic and essential point of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is the defence and existence of national sovereignty. Our position is therefore cautious, as it was in the final vote of the law, waiting for this balance to be found between an Azorian and autonomous claim and a sovereignist responsibility and integrity of the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u67	Thus, at the end of the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 59 / XIV. We move on to the third item on the agenda, with the joint discussion of Resolution Projects No. 641 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to regulate the functioning of primary health care, 248 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Guarantee a National Quality Health Service, 630 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to recover activity in primary health care and 656 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recovery and strengthening of primary health care activity. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Already before the pandemic were known and verifiable the limitations of the SNS (National Health Service ) in guaranteeing health care to all citizens, in all areas of the country, in time and time. Now, with seven months of a public health crisis that tends to enter a new acute phase, the consequence of these limitations is even more worrying. According to the president of the Portuguese Hospital Administrators Association, until July, 7 million presence contacts between nursing and medical consultations were under way only in primary health care. Down in the hospitals, 900 000 consultations and 90 000 surgeries were to be held. All of this can have serious effects and effects on Portuguese health. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as serious as the public health crisis of COVID-19, or even more serious, is this other crisis of non-COVID disease, of people who are not being diagnosed and are not being treated at the right time — in some cases, in time. It is important that excess mortality is explained with more than 6000 deaths than in the same period of 2019, of which less than 2000 are per COVID. And it is worrying to suspect the increase in morbidity, which we have no way of evaluating or dimensionalizing. at this time, hospitals resume their activity slowly and asymmetrically, but the plan for the fall-winter of the DGS (Direction-General of Health) cannot be applied in primary health care and the entry door for the SNS is not really open. This is because family physicians are increasingly overburdened with COVID surveillance, in the screening of suspected patients or in the daily follow-up of isolated cases, and because they have to ensure new areas dedicated to respiratory symptoms and displacements to homes, when required. Therefore, doctors cannot consult or accompany the 1900 patients on their lists, much less the others who are not on the lists. People go to health centers and units and come up with lines for signs of markings and lines for consultation passwords, all on the outside to ensure the social distance, which, of course, at the door, becomes a fiction in the eyes of everyone. The Minister said that it would be difficult to reach the 2019 level in assisting other diseases, but the truth is that it does not have to be that way. It would have been necessary to start working earlier, but it is still time to take some measures that the CDS recommends in this project. of these outstanding measures, first, the placement of the new family doctors who applied to the 435 vacancies of the May contest and who have not yet been hired. Their lack contributes to the fact that almost 1 million Portuguese people do not have a family doctor today, more than 300 000 users than last year. Where has the promise of a doctor and a family health team for each Portuguese? Secondly, I stress the careful and agile strengthening of human resources — nurses, operational assistants and technical assistants — and of the means, whether the capacity of telephone stations, whether the digital marking system, for a speedy and secure response to citizens. Thirdly, I stress the guarantee of national coverage of the primary health care network, with full response capacity, if necessary, by contracting with the private and social sectors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at present, would like to prove that only the SNS is enough to close the door to many Portuguese, risking their health beyond the COVID. There are private units and health professionals available, even in transitoryly, to relieve the pressure in primary health care and in the SNS. The choice is simple and crystalline: will the government use them to take care of people or will it use people to take care of the SNS? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u69	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the health crisis we know of the possibility of a second COVID-19 wave, or a significant number of outbreaks that will aggravate the risk of respiratory disease of people, particularly the most vulnerable, and thus increase the need for response from public health services. It is necessary to enhance what has been learned from this crisis and, above all, to anticipate these problems. Although the Government has strengthened the health teams in a hospital context, structural deficits and the scenario that is expected require real courage and priority in this area, now and in the next State Budget. We cannot ignore the reality of health professionals who are on the ground, who do not look at hours or at work to fulfill their responsibilities. But these professionals, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're running out. SNS strengthening policies have forgotten primary health care teams, despite the crucial role they have in monitoring users, in addition to all their other functions and responsibilities. The World Health Organization points out that “primary health care can cover most of the health needs of a person throughout his or her life, including prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and palliative care”. But for this, priority must be given, investment, care for those who care; and listen must be heard. One of the problems that has been constantly reported to us is the lack of communication and dialogue of the government with these professionals, whose presence in the SNS is important to ensure. Finally, today, we have heard the Minister of Health say that she wants to hear these professionals. There's hope! An efficient plan for the recovery of primary health care activity is needed, as health care professionals assume a huge responsibility for monitoring and monitoring users. in this sense, the NAP recommends that the Government continue with all SNS strengthening measures, without forgetting the strengthening of professionals and the improvement of working conditions at the level of groups of health care centres ( ACES ), as well as the national coverage of the primary health care network. We remember that nearly 1 million people continue without a family doctor — I am one of them, but almost 34 years ago. The Health Plan for Autumn-Inverne 2020 - 2021 is oriented towards the resumption of normal primary health care activity, but we all know how difficult and time-consuming it is to contact public health units, either because urgent situations are prioritized, or because there was an expressive increase in contacts, or because communication networks are obsolete, or because human resources are lacking. The reality is that the attempts to contact citizens and citizens with public health care become exasperating—that is because, before this outbreak, each family doctor had, on average, 1900 patients to accompany. Therefore, the proposal that the NAP brings today is to strengthen and improve the conditions that enable a more efficient telephone and electronic communication service, either in this specific context or outside it, since good communication establishes confidence and reduces many of the non-essential presenceal contacts. We also consider it essential to improve the provision of home health care. Finally, as a preventive public health measure that must follow the provenly effective experience of other countries, we recommend that the Government take preventive measures annually consistent with the estimated peak of influenza and other respiratory infections, such as the use of reusable masks, social distance, respiratory label and hand hygiene, making these measures good practices of protection and public health. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u71	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Access to primary health care is a priority. However, and although the recovery of health care has already been decided to be carried out at the early stage of the pandemic, the truth is that, in general health centres, this activity has not been resumed. The data from the SNS Transparency Portal are very clear on this: from January to July 2020, compared with the 2019 homologous period, there was a reduction of 4, 6 million presence medical consultations and less 2, 35 million nursing contacts. The overwhelming majority of the consultations that are being conducted are telephoned, but let us bear in mind that telephone contact does not replace face-to-face consultation, does not replace the user's observation by the doctor. Therefore, it is important that there is this resumption of observation and presenceal contact between the user and health professionals, ensuring, of course, public health recommendations. There are numerous difficulties in accessing primary health care: there are users who cannot make a consultation with their family doctor; there are users who cannot even telephone the health centre, because there are not enough workers to meet all calls or because the existing communication system is obsolete; there are users who are cared for in the street, at the window or at the workplace; there are users who wait hours and hours, waiting for assistance on the street, sometimes with adverse climate conditions, exposed to the sun, rain and, now that winter is approaching, cold; there are health extensions that remain closed, that have not yet been reopened, and health centers that only meet emergency situations. This may in fact lead to a worsening of the health status of users. Primary health care, we all know, is fundamental to the follow-up of chronic patients, to prevent them from compensating. In screening and early diagnosis, there are already reports that the detection of serious diseases is being done in a late stage and we all know what this means. If there is no follow-up by primary health care, there is also no reference of users for differentiated care, specialization consultations or other health care in hospital units. Limitations and inadequacies in primary health care are not today, they already come from behind, and they are, of course, responsible, who were in the previous governments, PSD, PS and CDS, who imposed a policy of de-investment and are responsible for the lack of doctors and family nurses, technical and operational assistants, the obsolescence of communications, the existence of health centres with inadequate facilities. If, in the initial phase of the pandemic, it was necessary to organize the SNS to respond, it is not understood that the primary health care activity has not yet been resumed, care these often designated as the gateway to the National Health Service — and, if it is not actually open, access to health may be involved. The CFP believes that it is essential to strengthen primary health care and recommends that the Government adopt a plan to recover the activity of primary health care with a view to the widespread conduct of consultations. To this end, it is essential: the reopening of all extensions and health centres still closed; the hiring of health professionals — doctors and nurses in the family, psychologists, technical and operational assistants; the provision of more health professionals to strengthen the various units of health centres, such as shared care units or community care units; the hiring of foreign physicians, on an exceptional basis and for a transitional period, while there are no conditions for ensuring all users a family physician; the promotion and valorization of medical specialities in general and family medicine and public health among medical students; the modernisation of equipment and communication systems; the extension of the working time of primary health care units.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u73	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. We reaffirm that, in fact, strengthening the National Health Service and strengthening health care are fundamental to ensuring access to health care for all users. And taking care of the SNS is taking care of people, it's caring for the users, it's ensuring the right to health. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u75	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block Parliamentary Group and to intervene in the debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service has been fundamental in the last months of the pandemic, and it is never too much to remember this, because there is always a tendency to forget the role of the National Health Service at this time. Let no one be deceived: only the National Health Service has succeeded in protecting us, as a population, in these times we live. When the private sector closed doors, it was the National Health Service that responded; when several entities in the private sector or the so-called "social sector" decided to end the conventions they had with the National Health Service, it was the National Health Service that remained and that is on the ground, every day, to respond to the pandemic. It is therefore understood that, at the beginning of the pandemic, at the beginning of March, there was a reprogramming of the activity of the National Health Service — the reprogramming of consultations and examinations and the suspension of certain activities, too — because, effectively, the SNS needed to concentrate efforts and resources to respond to the epidemic. Public health services needed to track contacts and establish transmission chains, primary health care needed to accompany patients who, although positive, with mild symptoms, were at home and hospitals needed to be in full readiness. It was understood that this was the case, and users also understood that it was the case: they understood that their doctor, nurse, radiology technician were focused on responding to the pandemic. No one wanted to see in Portugal the images that came to us, for example, from Italy. What you don't understand anymore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, seven months later — seven months later! — measures have not yet been taken to strengthen the SNS so that it can continue to respond to the pandemic so that it can recover the activity that has been suspended and that it can resume the planned activity. It is not understood that during the pandemic, they have lost family physicians and that there are more users without a family doctor during the pandemic. It is not understood that an activity recovery program has been published for hospitals, but nothing for primary health care or, for example, for the activity of medical boards. It is not understood that, seven months later, there is still difficulty in consulting health centres, renewing revenue, calling the health centre, and much less it is understood that the Health Plan for Autumn-Winter, which the government has already presented, does not say anything at all — nothing! — on means and resources for primary health care. The Plan there admits that it is necessary to maximize primary health care, there says that they have to respond to the pandemic and recover activity, but then on resources, how to do, with which professionals, with what technology, nothing! Nothing is said in this plan. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] The problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, everybody understands, it's not in the National Health Service. The problem is that the government does not allocate the necessary resources to the National Health Service. The problem, everyone realizes, is not in the professionals of the National Health Service, who work more than ever at this time. The problem is that the volume of work has increased dramatically and has not been accompanied by increased human resources — from professionals, workers — in the National Health Service. The problem is not the health centers, the problem is that, seven months after the onset of the pandemic, the government did not strengthen in operational assistants, technical assistants, nurses for community care units, doctors, senior diagnostic technicians, did not renew the telephone centers nor did it make a plan of recovery of activity for primary health care. And that reinforcement, this investment, this plan, is absolutely essential to give the SNS capacity. Therefore, since the Government does not do so, the Left Block brings up a draft resolution to be debated and voted on, with the intention of the Assembly of the Republic saying that it has to be done, as is obvious. And what do we propose? We propose: a recovery program for activities not carried out in primary health care, with increased activity and additional remuneration; a funding line for each regional health administration, for the hiring of operational assistants, technical assistants, nurses and other professionals for all functional units, according to the needs of regional health administrations; an extraordinary competition for specialized medical training, especially in general and family medicine; digital mobile centres in all health centres and distribution of mobile phones by these units; and the installation of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, such as the creation of proximity diagnostic centers. So, yes, primary health care will be done and a National Health Service that effectively manages to respond to the pandemic and to all day-to-day needs, to all the planned activity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u77	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, four draft resolutions are presented here that recommend to the Government measures for the recovery and strengthening of primary health care. Let me divide my intervention into three points, three points too important for the National Health Service, for primary health care and for this Parliamentary Group : first, to recognize and evaluate the difficulties we face; second, what is being done, that is, the measures that have been implemented, those that are being implemented and those which the Government is preparing to implement; and third, the commitment of the government and of each of us, to the Portuguese and Portuguese. As for the first point, of recognition and evaluation, it is important to say that, all this time, and since the first positive COVID, our country and all the world face ever-experienced demands. The commitment, coordination and cooperation of all actors to combat what we called the "unknown virus" were necessary. All mobilized, articulated, recreated, reinvented and adapted, and primary health care, Ms. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not been outside. It was imperative to suspend the care activity, to implement new procedures, new circuits, new teams, new behavior, in terms of telephone care to patients, presence monitoring and home care. Many areas dedicated to VOCID have also been created in health centers. After all this time, and that seems to have no end, we are able to evaluate the point where we leave and what we have to recover, while we continue the path with which we commit ourselves, to strengthen the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can also assess that our health system is a guarantee of quality care. We can say, and we must, as the director of the World Health Organization did, that we are one of the best. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to my second point of speech, on what is being done, I could list a large number of measures, but the time available will not allow me to do so. They are known to all — Mr Moses Ferreira, the measures are known to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I refer to the indication of the resumption of care activity on 2 May, the strengthening of human resources—even yesterday, in a statement from the Council of Ministers, was made the announcement of the integration of 2995 professionals into the National Health Service —,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the anticipation and increase of vaccination, mental health teams in the community, the diversification of valences in primary health care — oral and visual health, pediatrics, nutrition, complementary means of diagnosis and, moreover, gynecology —, the hiring of doctors, which is taking place. Mrs. Members, for 435 open vacancies, 444 candidates competed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u79	It's the first time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u80	This is the first time we've seen this number. I also refer to an ever-increasing laboratory response and the implementation of the Fall-Winter Health Plan 2020 - 2021, with a triple concern: COVID patients, non-COVID patients and literacy and communication. Finally, on the third point of my intervention, the Socialist Party's commitment is clear and unequivocal and is in the Government Program and in the Great Plan Options for 2021 - 2023 : improving the response of the National Health Service to the needs of citizens and making it more resilient, strengthening primary health care and recovering care in a safe way. It is our commitment to continue in line with the implementation of measures, monitoring and ensuring results. We are aware of the difficulties, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the difficulties, but we are convinced that the Government and the national and regional health authorities have a commitment to resolve, ensuring primary health care as an undeniable right for all Portuguese and all Portuguese. And we cannot deny the increasing work of health professionals, of all those on the ground, with an undeniable and unquestionable commitment. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny the problems, we are aware of the problems and are trying to solve them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u81	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects we are discussing today reveal the difficulty we all face when we face the numerous complaints of problems in accessing primary health care. It is not understood how hospitals have adapted, and well, to receive patients with COVID, being undergoing adaptations to receive all other users, with the most varied diseases, and this adaptation has not yet happened in health centers throughout the country. The fight against COVID-19 has brought greater challenges to the SNS, which has responded positively to them despite the recognized and known difficulties. This is the time to provide all human, technical and financial health centres to ensure responses to the population they serve. It is therefore necessary to keep the promises and to ensure that all Portuguese have a family doctor and nurse. It is urgent to strengthen the National Health Service so that, in a few months' time, we will not be discussing how it was possible to let people die without the necessary follow-up. Chronic diseases that need to be followed, treatments that need adaptations, routine examinations that are indispensable to be done, proximity that is pressingly guaranteeing to risk groups and, above all, to the elderly, mental health follow-up are elements that cannot be left behind. Primary care is particularly necessary for the elderly, who see in their doctor or family nurse the trustworthy person,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u83	In case they do!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u84	...who accompanies them, who talks, who knows their needs and sends them. Besides follow-up in health, they are also the friend, the counselor, support in the bad hours. Measures and guidelines are urgently needed to strengthen the means for monitoring the disease, family planning, prevention. It has never been so necessary to invest in the SNS, and this investment can never be considered as expenditure, it must be seen as an investment for the future. It is urgent to reopen the health centers, with all the valences, and end with the queues to the door, with the services at the postage, with the description of the symptoms by phone or with requests for the elderly to mark their appointments through an electronic address that they do not dominate. It is essential that the extensions and health centers can recover the care activity to prevent the emergencies of hospitals being overloaded, with all the consequences of this behavior. We have heard repeatedly that it is time to think about how we want to live, how we want to consume, or even change certain behaviors. The problem is that the needs of populations, their diseases, their lifestyles do not want to know whether or not there is COVID, they want answers, and they want a public response for everyone. Therefore, it is increasingly urgent that we be able to demand normal access to services, so that the tests are not to be done, so that prevention does not fail, so that isolation does not kill more than other diseases, including COVID-19. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u85	I now give the floor to Mr Alberto Machado of the PSD Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss four initiatives, all recognizing the critical situation in which the National Health Service is located, aggravated by the mismanagement of this pandemic by the Socialist Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u87	Don't back it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u88	...that is quite clear today in the eyes of all Portuguese. The pink country, here painted by PS, does not match the reality. Despite the patriotic support of the PSD in the first months of this health crisis, the socialist government in office,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... by giving you all the political and budgetary management conditions so that you could implement the measures necessary for the adequacy of public services, in particular health services, to take care of people, and the economy, to help businesses, the government has failed. We cannot accept and cannot remain silent when, more than six months later, the government has not been able to organize, plan and take care of what is fundamental to the country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u89	The PSD does not understand how, with these months of preparation, and already knowing that we were walking to winter and to a new peak of the pandemic, it was not possible to find solutions to guarantee the Portuguese access to primary health care. They are closed health centers, they are phones that play and they are not answered again, they are queued to the door, they are people who are desperate to be cared for, some since March, they are services in rupture due to lack of doctors, nurses, administrative and auxiliary. It is a third-world situation, as a result of the lack of action and preparation of the government in which it is the nerve point of this health crisis. at the end of five years of governance of the Socialist Party, the critical situation for which the SNS was led by who would be proud to be its protector is a collapse of the system. [[PS Deputy Protests Sonia Fertuzinhos.]] It was five years in which what was left of advertisements and propaganda was scarce in achievements and results. Otherwise, let's see: in 2011 after the Socialist Party government called the troika, because it ended with money, and having signed a memoranda that castrated our financial freedom, it was still possible to the PSD government,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] The truth is hard, the truth is hard! As I said, it was still possible for the PSD Government between 2011 and 2015 to reduce the number of Portuguese without a family doctor from 1, 8 million to 1 million, attributing family doctor to more than 800,000 Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u90	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u91	Do you want to turn it off for four years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u92	In 2020, at the end of five years of socialist governance, the number of Portuguese without a family doctor is practically the same. They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u94	It's because there are more people in the country, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u95	In fact, far away are the times when the current Prime Minister's fanfarronism led him to say that, in 2017, all Portuguese would have a family doctor. They say everything and their opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u96	Do the math!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u97	We have seen a brutal degradation of care activity in the last seven months, but the patients are not cured, like by magic, and the other diseases have not disappeared with COVID. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] In fact, it is funny to see here the Left Block criticising, when it approved the successive budgets of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u98	Ensuring access to primary health care and hospital health care is urgent, should have been prepared and every day that passes is another black day for the SNS. It's access to health that's at stake! Mr President, in view of this reality, some of the initiatives under discussion today are as well known as harmful as ideological-statistical prejudice. For PSD, that's not the way. For us, the path is a National Health Service that fulfils the Constitution, guaranteeing to the entire population access to health care, universally and trendily free; an SNS with management teams and motivated health professionals, where the institutions have real autonomy of management and have contractual objectives; a SNS in which there is an effective system of financial incentives to health professionals, depending on the results obtained.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u99	A SNS quoted in the bag! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u100	But we also believe in a health system based on three pillars: the public, the social and the private; a health system where the sense of service to the citizen and the logic of collaboration between sectors replace the logic of permanent confrontation, which the extreme left so insists on promoting. in this time when the pandemic has so much difficulty the access of Portuguese to health care, it is necessary to mobilize all existing resources and capabilities in the health system. Therefore, we defend the contractualization of family doctors from the social sector and the private sector,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... thus assigning family doctors to all Portuguese. And we believe it is possible to do better, help the SNS, involve the social sector and the private sector, with the ultimate goal of caring for people's health, in full—and already! — by laying down all available provisions for the health of Portuguese and without ideological atavism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u101	Get us doctors, we hire!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u102	Only then, with inclusive and mobilising proposals, will we ensure that all Portuguese people have access to health care in a fair and equitable manner. This is the profound conviction of the Social Democratic Party! [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u103	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u104	Mr President, we are in a caricature situation from a health point of view in Portugal. We had 4 million consultations cancelled, more than half a million pending surgeries, and the government's solution is that it will compensate for these cancellations and delays. Members of the Socialist Party say: « Get us the doctors, that we will be here to hire them! » Of course, in the last 20 years, they've been in power in 15 and they haven't, but now they say they're going to do it over the next year. But it is better to see the extreme left obsessed, as always, with the social sector and the private sector, as if the situation we already have in the public sector was not enough. Mrs Paula Santos, I have heard you say from the rostrum that there are only three culprits in this situation — the PS, the PSD and the CDS — it is the same as saying that the CFP had nothing to do with the last Socialist Party's budgets, throughout the last legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u105	And no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u106	When it was necessary to strengthen the SNS, when it was necessary to increase the health centres that are now closed, some of them due to lack of cleaning — I repeat, lack of cleaning — and when it was necessary to strengthen primary care, the CFP there was giving its hand to the Socialist Party in three successive budgets. [[Protests by PS MP Alexandra Tavares de Moura.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u107	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u108	I repeat, three budgets followed, without ever demanding anything more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u109	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u110	Now, it goes up to the rostrum, as if it didn't exist yesterday, as if the PS, without the PCP, had...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u111	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, Mrs. Deputy appears here, as if the PCP was born yesterday, saying that PS, PSD and CDS are bad guys who treat Portuguese health badly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u113	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u114	Remember that, when you make next coalitions in Portugal! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u115	Our proposals speak for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u116	Let us turn to the end of this agenda item. To this end, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u117	Mr President, at the end of this debate, it seems to me that what we have in common is the sharing of a huge concern about the state of health in Portugal. But what distinguishes us — and distinguishes us frankly — is where we put the point of this concern, both in speech and in choices. I heard the Left Block and the PCP, for whom the tonic must be placed in the SNS. The SNS is the alpha and omega of this discussion and the SNS should be strengthened as far as possible from Budget Budget, at the cost of waiting for people, who are secondary in relation to the system. I heard the PS speak by the government, full of good intentions, with great difficulty in realizing them, always being within the perimeter of the SNS, as well as the Health Plan for Autumn-Winter, ignoring that these options have led to the fact that today we have more than 300 000 users without a family doctor, so far from the promise of the previous legislation, a family doctor for each citizen. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonia de Almeida Santos.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to tell you that the health crisis we have is serious and that the tone has to be in the ability to serve people, in their health care, where there is capacity. As I say to you, the blind insistence that only the SNS can give an answer will lead to serious results in people's health, for which, then, no one will be responsible, because they will only be seen from here many years ago—but they will exist and people will feel-CL them. Therefore, the cost of a bad decision, the cost of a wrong decision of willingness to prove, at all costs, that the SNS, manifestly unable, will be the only answer will have consequences on people's health. I sincerely call on the PS bench and the government to weigh well if it is not time, at least transitionally, to contract with the private and social sectors to respond to the people who are at the door of the health centre today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u118	Closing the third point, we move on to point four of our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of Bills Nos 53 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Purpose to ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by those with pets and 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Civil Code, ensuring non-discrimination in access to the lease by those who have pets. To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost all of us have heard about, in our day-to-day life, or we even know people who, when choosing a house, face questions about whether they have pets. in the same way, daily, whether on social networks, whether on various platforms, such as the OLX ( OnLine Exchange) or in other digital means, it is not uncommon to see ads that mention the intention of giving up a pet because of people moving from home. This is a reality that occurs in a context where studies in Portugal indicate that more than 50 % of families own pets. We cannot ignore that pets are often the only company — I pass the redundancy — either for children, with constitutive value for the formation of their personality, for older people, who live in a situation of greater isolation, or even in much more complex contexts, such as domestic violence, where animals are the only safe port or company and, of course, in this case, a much more emphasized relationship by the difficult context in which people survive. It is therefore important for the legislator to ensure, either from a non-discrimination perspective or from an approach to protection of persons and animals, in particular the need to combat the scourge of abandonment, that there are legislative responses that eliminate this obstacle to access to housing. This is undoubtedly a situation of great difficulty for families, which, not having the possibility to buy a house themselves — which, not only in the economic context we live in, but in what was already felt, well we know, is a difficult process — so they see their restricted freedom and, on the limit, are forced to do something contrary to the law and that is penalized in our Criminal Code, which is to abandon the pet itself. We also note cases, even more punctual, in which people end up living in precarious homes or are in a homeless position because they refuse to separate themselves from their pets. It seems to us, therefore, that this is in fact not only a matter of manifest discrimination as of inequality, which we cannot continue to ignore as legislators. These cases have also arrived at the Portuguese courts, which have already ruled on this matter, and there is case law that has been derogating contractual clauses which require that no pets exist in the place, precisely because they consider that they collide with the relevance that animals today have to human formation, to the values of the family, to the development of minors who integrate this family and also to the values that we want to transmit to these same children, namely protection, preservation, generosity, among other fundamental values in our rule of law. We cannot also ignore the remaining legal system. Portugal ratified the European Convention for the Protection of Company Animals, a convention which recognises and underlines the affective ties that unite us with these animals. It can be seen that secularly, the Man has brought the pet into his home and therefore makes no sense that then it is the human being to derail the bond and the commitment he has made to these living beings endowed with sensitivity, as our Civil Code recognizes, and that as such they lack our care and attention. In the more complex context of the COVID-19, with challenges added in this new reality, in which a situation that was already complicated, such as access to housing, is now acute, it is anticipated that, in this crisis, another social crisis will occur, so it is more important than ever to remove barriers in access to housing. With this proposal, we do not wish to neglect the rights of the gentlemen, but the civil law already protects this conflict of interest by precisely allowing the damage that may be caused to be compensated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u120	Madam Member, I would like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u121	I'm done now, Mr. President. What we cannot continue to allow is a clear discrimination that comes to regret the families and the values that guide us in the 21st century. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u122	Mrs Rodrigues has the floor now to present her legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the non-discrimination in the access to rent by those who own pets, a small change that can have a great impact on people's lives and which, even a few years ago, has motivated me to create a public petition precisely with this objective. We must not forget that the right to housing is a fundamental, constitutionally consecrated right, but that unfortunately there are situations in which families cannot find a home to live because the landlords do not accept pets. What should a family do in this situation? Abandoning the animals? The abandonment, in addition to cruel, is a crime. If the law provides for the stay of animals in dwellings, why should a landlord be allowed to restrict what the law already allows? Moreover, the rights of the landlord are already guaranteed in our law, in addition to being able to demand the payment of a security, which is usual practice. It is not acceptable for the Portuguese legal system, which recognises the simplicity of the animals, which provides for specific rules for their protection, requiring the holder to ensure the welfare of the animal, which criminalizes the ill-treatment and abandonment of animals, at the same time allows the landlords to prevent, in an abusive way, those who have animals to access the lease.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u124	We have moved on to the debate stage, with Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo being the first speaker. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the NAP, because it is indeed consistent. For the NAP, animals are exactly the same as people, it is a matter of reminding them on every occasion and each occasion seems good. It does not matter whether we are fighting a pandemic or facing one of the greatest economic and social crises of all time, or about to fail the target with the Brussels « bazauca », or recognizing that the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ) will not only cost EUR 1200 million and, if it is doubled, it is a lucky thing. In the middle of this, the NAP always finds a way to put the rights of animals in the discussion. The only good thing about this insistence on the NAP is that it gives the Liberal Initiative the opportunity to assert the obvious: animals are not people and therefore do not have the same rights. But even in this persistence, the NAP reveals the weakness of its argument: it says that animals are members of the family, but people easily abandon them when they are denied access to housing. What are we staying on? Are they family members or are they to be abandoned? In fact, this situation is already a crime, and very well. The argument on the basis of equality between people and animals then enters much more darker camps, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. The PAN compares— imagine! — any refusal of a master to accept animals with racial discrimination or discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u126	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u127	I shall conclude, Mr President. She agrees to stop thinking about this: the NAP believes that a situation where a landlord does not rent his house to someone with an animal is the same thing as not doing it to a homosexual couple. This absurd dispenses comments. You should not need to repeat this, but here it goes in the same: animals are not equal to people and the greatest proof of love and respect for their nature is exactly not to treat them as people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u128	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u129	And now, Mr President, as in all other cases, we will leave the State out of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u130	We now turn to the intervention of Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For millions of Portuguese, the presence of their pets and their coexistence are an essential element of their daily life. In addition to the ethical duty and responsibility for animal welfare, which the legislation itself, over recent years, has been consolidating in relation to animal owners, there is this reality so simple and so concrete that it places these animals as a very important presence in numerous families throughout the country. By accompanying the growth and development of children, helping to overcome or mitigate the feeling of loneliness or isolation, taking up their own space in the daily lives of families, pets are neither in law, nor in the sensitivity and awareness of citizens, disposable objects that can be abandoned in any situation. Over the years, however, thousands and thousands of people were confronted with the genuine expulsion of their homes, particularly in the main urban centres, in a frame of precaution of their lives, of uncertainty and fragility in their right to housing, of brutal increase in household incomes, in this context of real estate speculation, making these houses, these neighborhoods and these cities virtually inaccessible to those who lived in them. Making these situations of forced change even more dramatic, of withdrawal from their homes and of search for another housing, in accordance with the possibilities of these people who have been and are affected by this serious problem, it is often another concrete problem, which is that of the abusive prohibition of some landlords as to the presence of pets in their homes. The draft laws in question point out, as an objective in this regard, the definition in the legal framework of a response to these problems: in one case, proposing the prohibition of various discriminatory practices, in the context of lease contracts or, from the outset, of advertising the lease, in relation to pet animals; in another case, proposing the consecration of the principle of non-discrimination, provided for in the Civil Code, for access to the lease, encompassing the issue of pet animals. The CFP does not raise any fundamental objection to initiatives that seek to contribute to a response to this reality. The point that we cannot fail to make is the effectiveness and scope of the proposed measures. That is, if, at first, no one would disagree — we thought! — the rules that could prevent abusive prohibitions in contractual leases, it is also true that, in most cases, discrimination does not come with notice and does not disappear from life when it comes out of the paper. We must not go through an abstract debate on equality in this area. It is a legitimate debate about the elimination of discrimination and abuse that formally impedes the fulfilment of the responsibilities of these citizens towards their pets. The problem is when these abuses cease to be written and signed and continue to occur in practice. And the truth is, in this respect, there is nothing in these diplomas as a possible answer, nor do we know if it could be. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us not fail to point out that, in the time we live, the unsustainable situation of housing shortage for thousands and thousands of people, families, the elderly, children, with or without pets, requires a concrete response, concrete decisions, dedicated resources, political will! That is what needs to be pointed out and answered by the political power once and for all, because the right to housing and the responsibility of the State to guarantee it, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the demands of our time that the Constitution enshrines and that they are to comply with. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Boco de Left has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Discrimination has important and negative effects on the stability of the structure and quality of life of a person or family. When a person does not get a job or fails to rent a house right at the start and due to discrimination, there is a serious impact. When you don't get exactly paid work or a house with a fair income due to class discrimination, gender, ethnicity, religious belief or other, there's a financial impact that only those passing by can actually imagine. And, in the specific case of housing, discrimination and limitation of access also influences health, so in vogue and so much discussed in these days, since access to decent housing is a determinant of health, i.e., intensifies exposure to the disease. We have already mentioned it and we are not tired of repeating it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u135	Discrimination is based, we already know, on pre-conditioning ideas, clichés, generalizations that categorize people and their behaviors and which greatly limit the freedom of the targeted people. Any discrimination that impedes access to basic rights, such as the right to housing, must indeed be condemned. in these projects we analyze here today, it is intended - to register a type of concrete discrimination - and we do not want to make judgments of value - that we assist in the attempt to rent housing: people and families who live with domestic animals. It seems fair to us to include prevention regarding this form of discrimination in the Civil Code in access to rent, but it may also be advised to ensure more effective ways of resolving the conflicts that may arise there. Yes, for this too, there are regulations on condominiums, guarantees and the limitation of, for example, the number of animals, but it is also necessary to ensure greater and better cohabitation so that fears are not accentuated. We must therefore work to ensure that there is no such conditionality in access to housing, which penalises those who care for an animal and that it will not just abandon it, nor do we want it to. of the projects itself, we will be following both, in particular the one that provides for the amendment to the Civil Code, which seems to us to make more sense. However, it seems important to us also to provide that announcements cannot contain, a priori, discriminatory provisions and we should include proposals that reinforce good living with all the residents of the building. They can count on the Left Block to work with their proposals in the projects, where they are specialized, and this because of the right to housing that everyone attends, in addition to the fact that they have pets in their homes or not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens Ecological Party has already mentioned, and I would like to repeat, that, in terms of animal welfare legislation, and in particular domestic animal welfare, this Parliament has, throughout the last legislative term, promoted work at the legislative level, with the participation of civil society, which seems fair to us, in particular with regard to the criminalization of ill-treatment of animals and also the need to change the paradigm of slaughter to sterilization, with a view to controlling the animal population. I refer to this among other examples that could be given here. Today we are debating non-discrimination in access to housing for those who own pets. We remember here that pets are increasingly in the home of Portuguese families, who welcome them with affection, integrating them among their own and increasingly spend time with them, but also that pets are increasingly a support for children and young people and, in particular, for the elderly, to whom they guarantee company and support in many moments of loneliness. They are often the only company of these people. in this sense, what matters is to ensure conditions of hygiene, health, environmental and social health for the welfare of animals, requiring people who make the choice to have and take care of domestic animals this responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore the fact that conflicts are also recurring, either with gentlemen, because of damage caused by animals in buildings, whether by neighbors, owners or tenants of buildings, particularly in buildings, by the noise some animals make and by the smells they cause due to the neglect of the owners. The solutions proposed by the bills here represent a step and can be improved in the field of specialty, because unfortunately there are no conflicts that oppose people's rights to hold their pets to the right of other people to rest and quiet only by resorting to the law. It is neither decreed nor imposed, under such a penalty to have no correspondence with the social environment and to resolve no conflict, that the owners of real estate have to accept pets, because, as you know, the landlords always have the last word in the lease and, with the regulatory framework of the lease in Portugal, it is very little to clear a tenant. It is not decreed that the owners guarantee the discipline of animals, ensure the cleaning and seating of their space and common spaces. It is not decreed that all animal owners have the means to take care of them and therefore there is no possibility of creating bad environments in buildings where they live with other people. This is a difficult path, it is the way of the stones and it is necessary to do so with the necessary care so that the doors will not be opened to those who wish to walk back.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u138	Go see the letter of the law, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u139	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the legislative initiative and the question posed by the NAP and by the honourable Member not included. In fact, it touches on an important aspect of life and access to housing for many thousands of people; however, it has to be framed in what is also the access of the neighbours of the people who have this need, on the one hand, and in the position of the landlord himself, of the owner of the fraction, on the other. Therefore, it is in the conciliation of various elements, which are not simple to harmonise in the same space, that this debate should take place. over the years, and it has been well mentioned in previous interventions, has evolved significantly in what is recognition in civil law, in criminal law, about animal welfare as a value to be taken into account, also in the construction of our legal order. In fact, if we look at other countries and at the answer they give to this same question, that is, in what circumstances there may be the presence of pets in the place or sometimes on the property of a third party, we find solutions far less advanced than those of Portuguese legislation. We often find, in fact, a complete possibility for the landlord to prevent any access of pets by tenants and even we have circumstances in which it is the own condominium that can determine restrictions not only to common spaces but to what happens within the fractions, assuming— precisely because as there is transit and the crossing of the common parts—that this can somehow affect the life of the community in that building. Therefore, the legislation of these various states that have these more intensive readings shows that the problem is not an easy one and that the solution we have to find must take account not only of our reality, not only of the protection of animal welfare, but also of the balance of the position of those who, on the one hand, are owners and of the other people who reside there. The proposed draft laws seek to be cautious in a certain sense, i.e. to identify as much objective elements as possible to try to justify the circumstances in which these limits may exist. They identify the maximum number of animals per fraction, identify the detention of dangerous animals as being also a factor that may eventually lead to this prohibition and refer to public health, but there truly is a basic problem that is the construction of the standards that it presents is done on the contrary. In other words, it first proclaims a principle of non-discrimination (and there we agree, in part, with what Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo said) and puts it on the same footing as what are the suspected non-discrimination clauses contained in the Constitution of the Republic based on ethnicity, sexual orientation, descent, etc. — those elements which should in fact be considered in the creation of a non-discrimination clause because they respect, once again, the categories suspected of Article 13 (2). that of the Constitution, the detention of pets, which in fact has an impact that can be reversed in the lives of other people. Therefore, not disregarding the idea that it is necessary to legislate on the subject, we must find a balanced solution that supports the Constitution, but also in the protection of the landlords, tenants, of the other people who reside there and who heed the reality of what we are discussing. It is that we can find in a rural lease of rural property—and there it will not shock anyone—an unmeasured restriction, that is shocking, that prevents the presence of a pet, obviously. However, if we are talking about a fraction, a T0 or a T1, in a certain very restrictive context, in which the impact of the detention of the pet may be significant for the rest of the community, the answer can no longer be the same. Therefore, the great reserve we have in relation to this formulation is even related to the structure used. In other words, there is a first idea that there should be no discrimination without any basis — using the expression 'discrimination' that does not seem appropriate to us — rather than going the opposite way, I am going to say it again. First, let us identify, then, in what circumstances it is attentive and in which it must be guarded and protected the tenant's will to have a pet, in the appropriate quantity, in the appropriate species and in a context that is compatible with life in community. in this sense, and in the past we have already said it, we have an opening for discussion and to try to build a balanced solution; however, in the formulation in which it is found, it does not seem to us that this is still the case, but we have an opening for, if the initiatives go down to the committee without a vote, to try to build a balanced solution, which better secures the protection of all people and prevents precisely what has been said, that is, abandonment, which is often the solution that ends up in the absence of a housing response. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u141	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me begin by congratulating Mr President of the Madeira Regional Assembly, who is present here, former Member José Manuel Rodrigues. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real and Ms Cristina Rodrigues presented here these bills of non-discrimination in access to the rental by those who have pets. However, it is important to highlight in this debate the broad consensus that exists and that was expressed, for example, in 2014 with regard to the abuse of pet animals, and Parliament has set a good example here. It is true—and we can say that invoking the numbers — that more than 50 % of the homes in Portugal have pets and so we could say: "Well, the problem is solved. So why do we have a legislative amendment? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But it is fair to recognize that, indeed, there are citizens who, when looking for a new family address, are often confronted with the prohibition of carrying their pets, be it a dog, be it a cat. However, it is also true that we cannot ignore the right of the owners. The NAP again brings an initiative that is exactly the same as it presented in 2017. It is nothing new, it is not surprising to us, it is consistent in what is the political intervention of the NAP, but it is also important to highlight in this debate that there is a greater sensitivity of all to what pets are today. Today, the sensitivity that exists in Portugal is not the same as that that which existed 10 years ago and much less than 20 years ago, there is a much greater sensitivity. But then, here are questions that relate to the property itself and to the damage that can be caused in the property, with the guarantees itself, with the right to receive a property under the conditions in which it was offered. Therefore, in this debate, the NAP and the unregistered honourable Member come to defend the equality of citizens and the NAP, which says that there is equality of citizens here, which also has to do with those who have pets. However, we must not forget another equally important right, a fundamental right provided for in the Constitution, which is the right to private property, having a constitutional principle that has to do with the following: the freedoms and rights of each citizen end, as is evident, when the rights and freedoms of others begin. We understand, therefore, that the State cannot force a landlord or owner...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u143	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u144	I will finish Mr. President. We understand that the State cannot force a real estate owner to rent a house to any tenant, have a dog or not, have a cat or have no cat. Clearly, this violates contractual freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are now examining two legislative initiatives on two perspectives to ensure that no one can be limited in their right of access to a housing because of having a pet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u147	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u148	We also understand this, but what we believe is that the issue has not been put in principle. I will try to explain: if, on the one hand, animal welfare alone does not find direct constitutional protection, but only in a reflection of environmental concerns whose ultimate end is human health, on the other hand, is undeniable the evolution of mentalities and the legislative evolution to which we have witnessed in order to protect the rights of animals as non-human beings and in their relationship with them. The advantages they have, or may have, of family relations with animals, either from the point of view of the company they make, or from the point of view of human health. It is not rare at times, and we all know and know situations of this nature, that a pet is a stabilisation of emotions, an element essential to the development of a child or a factor of emotional, physical and mental balance, even of the elderly. [[Protests by PS MP Ascenso Simões.]] It therefore seems logical to us that a condominium regulation cannot prevent the presence of animals in its fractions of horizontal property, since it is not supposed that the condominium regulation rules, except for very rare exceptions, which occurs within the autonomous fractions. We therefore find it necessary to regulate or legislate on this matter, which, we believe, is perfectly cautious in our legal system with regard to horizontal property. As it seems logical to us that a family benefiting from social housing measures should not be limited or prevented from achieving such benefits by having a pet. This factor, the fact that it has an animal, should never be an election criterion in social housing, for example, and we should reflect on this. It is that these families benefiting from social housing, unlike the rent that addresses the diplomas concerned, have no choice and, not having this, it cannot be a criterion of limitation in access to these housing. Different is the case of traditional rent, which is not social housing, and, in such cases, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, forcing the gentleman to accept the pet animals that the lodger intends to take with him to the house he is going to rent may, in our view, introduce a difficult lease mechanism for those who are looking for home. If that were the case, we would certainly be in charge of security of more than usual value or the need for the payment of insurance premiums that the tenant would be obliged to make. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it creates barriers to the rental market, makes it difficult for those who are looking for a home, creates high burdens for those who already have difficulty paying the income as many other benefits as possible. in this perspective, it seems to us wrong to create a disturbing element in the lease and it seems to us that the discriminatory charism intended to give to these clauses is exaggerated. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, under the penalty of violating the constitutional principle of proportionality, we believe that the matter may merit reflection in the field of specialty, for which, of course, we are available. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u149	We now move on to the closing stage of this point, to what I give the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the PS and the PSD not only for the availability they have shown to debate this issue in the field of expertise, and we think that the Bloc will also accompany this concern, because it seems essential to do so, although there are criticisms that we cannot follow. Of course, it seems to us absolutely fallacious what Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo referred to in the Liberal Initiative, relatively not only to the devirtuality of the one that is the intention of this proposal, because what he is saying to these people, to these families, is: "If you have pets, you will have to abandon these animals. Do not keep on seeking. ” In fact, what we are talking about, Mr President, is not to put animals on the same footing as people; we are talking about ensuring that these people are not discriminated against and have access to housing. This is what we are talking about and the constitutive value these animals have for families, along with something we have to fight, the scourge of abandonment. I would remind you, Mr President, and the same applies to what has been said by the ENP, which we have often heard here saying that the policy of not slaughter was a wrong policy, that the canis and the municipal cats are absolutely full, but then when proposals are brought here that aim to eliminate obstacles that exist and that in some way also contribute to the abandonment there. Members say: 'High there that the NAP is already bringing its animal agenda' — that we are very proud of, Mr, we have no problem and we thank you for having recognized it because, indeed, we have on our political agenda this debate and that in no way gets us embarrassed. On a very relevant issue, which Mrs Márcia Passos referred to, there is here a question on access to public housing and our objective is not to create a discriminatory criterion for the positive; on the contrary, what cannot happen, like what happens in the private lease, even though it is not written in the guidelines, is the denial of access to public housing is people who are in a homeless situation, whether they are victims of domestic violence, who cannot even access housing, if they have pets. Now, it seems to us that these situations are manifestly discriminatory. If you and the ladies. Members will follow us on a visit to the streets of the city of Lisbon, for example, we will see that we often see people in a homeless situation who have animals, who are in that condition and who cannot access public housing precisely because they have animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u151	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u152	I conclude now, Mr President. So it seems to us clearly that something is wrong. We welcome the willingness to discuss this issue in the field of expertise, because the right to housing and the right of persons with pets can keep them in their family aggregate are fundamental rights that must be respected. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u153	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded point 4 of our agenda. of point 5, for which no time for discussion has been allocated, the motion for a resolution No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels. Let us turn to point 6, which is reflected in the vote on the Rules of Procedure, giving some time for the Members and the Members to vote. Ladies and gentlemen are preparing for this stage of our session. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are in a position to start the voting period. Let us then vote on draft resolution No 640 / XIV / 2. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to Bruges. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, with regard to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 57 / XIV— The ninth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October approving the Nationality Act, we shall begin by voting on the proposal for an amendment by BE amending Article 3 (1). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The foreign spouse of Portuguese national may acquire Portuguese nationality by means of a formal declaration recorded in the marriage council.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u154	We shall vote on the amendment tabled by the IL to Article 3 ( 1 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH and votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Foreigners who have been married for more than three years with Portuguese nationals may acquire Portuguese nationality by declaration made at the marriage board, without prejudice to paragraph 4 of this Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u155	We shall vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 3 ( 3 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — An alien living in de facto union with Portuguese nationals may acquire Portuguese nationality by submitting a declaration of recognition of the de facto union issued by the respective parish board.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u156	We shall vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the IL amending Article 3 ( 3 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — An alien who, at the time of the declaration, has been living in a de facto union for more than three years with Portuguese nationals, may acquire Portuguese nationality, after acting in recognition of that situation to be brought before the civil court, without prejudice to paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u157	We shall vote on the proposal to amend BE, to eliminate Article 3 ( 4 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The next votes would be proposals by the PS and IL, respectively, for the elimination of Article 3 ( 4 ). the, as referred to in Article 2. that of the Decree. But they're damaged. thus, we proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE to delete Article 3 ( 5 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the vote against the IL.]] The vote on the proposal by the PS for the abolition of Article 3 ( 5 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. the Decree as well as the vote on the proposal submitted by the IL, which amends Article 3 ( 5 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. We voted on the proposal by BE amending Article 9 ( 2 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — (Current drafting of the law in force).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u158	The vote on the proposal by the IL amending Article 9 ( 2 ) shall be adversely affected. the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. We shall therefore proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by BE, which shall be added to Article 9 ( 3 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree, and consequent renumbering of the current paragraph 3 as paragraph 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The opposition to the acquisition of nationality on the basis of paragraph 1(a) does not apply to situations of acquisition of nationality in the event of a marriage or de facto union where the marriage or de facto union has been governed for at least 2 years.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u159	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 9 ( 3 ). the Law of Nationality, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree, and consequent renumbering of the current paragraph 3 as paragraph 4. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions by BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The opposition to the acquisition of nationality on the basis of paragraph 1(a) does not apply to situations of acquisition of nationality when marriage or de facto union has been under way for at least 6 years.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u160	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the IL to add Article 2. o -A to Decree No 57 / XIV. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the PAN, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the PEV.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Repealing rule Article 14 of Law No 37/81 of 3 October is repealed in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u161	We have therefore moved on to the vote on the new Decree, with the amendments we have just adopted. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We moved on to additional script II on the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 59 / XIV — First amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April 2014 establishing the Basics of the Policy of Planning and Management of the National Maritime Area. Therefore, the first vote we have to take in this script is on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 8 ( 4 ). the Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, as set out in Article 1. that of the Decree, and consequent amendment to the notice of revocation contained in Article 4. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, ENP, IL, PSDP Deputies Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, PS Deputies Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Rosário Gambôa and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PSDP Deputies António Lima Costa and Non-registered PSD members Cristina Rodrigues, CDS-PP and PS Detentions Bruno Aragon and Filipe Neto Brandão.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — Instruments for the sorting of the national maritime area define codecision procedures, within the framework of joint or shared management between the central administration and the autonomous region, where the economic and financial arrangements associated with the private use of marine funds are concerned.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u162	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u163	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u164	Mr President, Mr António Ventura, not being in the Chamber for the reasons that are known, also votes in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u165	It's clear. The services should take note of this. We shall proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u166	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u167	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u168	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u169	Be registered. The vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party, which amends Article 31 ( 3 ( b ), follows. -A of Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, ENP, IL, PSP Deputies António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques and Non-registered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, PSP Deputies Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Rosário Gambôa and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PSP Member António Lima Costa and Non-registered PSD members Cristina Rodrigues, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão and Filipe Neto Brandão.]] [[(b) the participation of the departments of the competent central administration in the prior procedure for the approval of the planning and management plans for the maritime area up to 200 miles by means of an opinion, which is binding and binding on matters relating to the integrity and sovereignty of the State;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u170	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party to amend Article 31 ( 3 ( d ). -A of Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April, as set out in Article 2. that of the Decree. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, ENP, IL, PSP Deputies António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques and Non-registered Deputy Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, PSP Deputies Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Rosário Gambôa and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PSP Member António Lima Costa and Non-registered PSD members Cristina Rodrigues, CDS-PP and PS Deputies Bruno Aragão and Filipe Neto Brandão.]] [[(d) the exclusive competence of autonomous regions to license, in the context of the private use of goods in the public maritime domain of the State, in particular, activities for the extraction of inerts, fishing and production of renewable energies, unless the integrity and sovereignty of the State is concerned.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u171	We have now voted in favour of the new Decree, with the amendments which have been adopted in the meantime. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PAN, IL, PSDP Deputies António Ventura, Paulo Moniz, Paulo Neves, Sara Madruga da Costa and Sergio Marques and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, PS Deputies Ana Paula Vitorino, Ascenso Simões, Bruno Aragon, Isabel Alves Moreira, Jorge Lacão, José Magalhães, Marcos Perestrello, Rosário Gambôa and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PSDP Deputies António Lima Costa and Non-registered PSD Cristina Rodrigues, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u174	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I have just made a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u175	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Bruno Aragão, I have the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u176	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will send a statement of vote on these points.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. She also asks Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u178	Mr President, it is also to announce a statement of vote on behalf of the PSD Members elected by Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u179	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. May I also speak to Mrs Ana Paula Vitorino. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u180	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that I, Mrs Rosário Gambôa and Mrs Gambôa. Members Ascenso Simões, Jorge Lacão, Marcos Perestrello, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, José Magalhães, Alexandre Quintanilla, Isabel Moreira and Antonio Gameiro we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u181	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u182	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u183	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u184	Mr President, it is to announce that I will make a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Andre Ventura also asks me for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u186	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u187	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Everything is properly recorded and I thank you for your inscriptions. Let us then return to page 2 of the main script, with the general vote on draft resolution No 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to re-qualify Pavilion 5 from Dr. Sousa Martins Hospital. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It therefore drops to 9. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Pavilion 5 of Sousa Martins Hospital in the Local Guard Health Unit for the installation of the health department of the child and the woman. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We now vote in general on Resolution No 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government an absolute priority in the completion of the project to requalify the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, da Guarda, for maternity and health department of the child and woman. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 9. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 609 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Pavilion 5 of the Hospital of Guarda and the Pavilion Dona Amélia. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We also vote in general on Resolution No 613 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the immediate reconstruction of Pavilion 5 of Sousa Martins Hospital for the installation of the maternal-child clinical area ( Guarda ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] It therefore drops to 9. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS and the PAN, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 498 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the Charter of Digital Rights and a set of additional measures to ensure that citizens' guarantees in the digital field are strengthened. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Low to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u189	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u190	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this matter and on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We can then proceed to the next vote. We therefore voted for the Resolution Project No 532 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to identify and solve the problem of households in an irregular or illegal situation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a maximum ceiling for the value of the two. o is 3. the cycles of studies and postgraduate studies in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against PS, doPSD, doCDS-PP and IL were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, PS Ivan Gonçalves and Sérgio Sousa Pinto and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] The Commission shall be down to 8. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 492 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of tips in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 497 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the change in the value of the tips of professional higher technical courses, 2. o, 3. the cycles of studies in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the CH and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The diploma is lower than 8.The Commission. Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u192	Mr President, it is to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the honourable Members. Members Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira, Miguel Costa Matos, Filipe Pacheco and Olavo Câmara, on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u193	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 18 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Improves the allocation rules and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and the IL and abstained from PS, PSD and CDS-PP.]] Down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules relating to vocational training by amending Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November 2006. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CH abstentions.]] We will move on to the general vote of Bill No. 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends and improves the conditions of access and periods for granting unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit ( Tenth amendment of the Legal Protection Scheme in Unemployment ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH, IL and PS, PSD and CDS-PP.]] Down to 10. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 641 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to regulate the functioning of primary health care. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, BE, PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 248 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensure a National Quality Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL, the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and the PS, BE, the PCP, the PEV and the Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 630 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to recover activity in primary health care. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL, PS Vice-President Simões and Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 656 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recovery and strengthening of primary health care activity. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PEN, PAN, CH, IL, PS Vice-President Simões and Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Down to 9. the Commission. With no objection, we will now vote together the application, submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without voting for 60 days of the Bill No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — In order to ensure non-discrimination in the access to housing by those with pets, and the requirement, submitted by Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, not registered, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without voting for 60 days of Bill No. 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Civil Code, ensuring non-discrimination in access to the lease by those who have pets. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall move on to the overall vote of the motion for a resolution No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 622 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government guarantee the right to accompany pregnant women. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PEN, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 626 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By amending the guidance of the DGS in order to guarantee the right of pregnant women to accompany them in all obstetric services. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Down to 9. the Commission. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u194	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u195	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will now vote, in general, on the Resolution Project No 635 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — For the follow-up of pregnant women during all stages of labor in the context of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 636 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Ensure the follow-up of pregnant women in pregnancy care and at all stages of delivery even during the COVID-19 pandemic. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Down to 9. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 605 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the integration of precarious operational assistants into public school. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the recruitment of all workers necessary for the operation of the public school. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, PS deputy Simões and non-registered deputies Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and PS, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] Then we will generally vote on the Resolution Project No 654 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Recommends the hiring of more teachers, specialist technicians and non-teachers for public school. [[The vote was taken in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the Member of the PS Ascension Simões and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the IL and abstentions by the PS and PSD.]] The Commission shall be down to 8. We will now proceed to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolution No 168 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Moratorium for sale or transfer of state estate in cities in housing shortage. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolution No 230 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Mobilization of public housing heritage. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on draft resolution No 540 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Strengthening supply of rail transport and complementarity with road transport to ensure safety conditions. [[We voted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 546 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Effective protection of complainants. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against BE and abstentions from PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall now vote in general on the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on draft resolution No 550 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government submit and submit to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic the National Strategy for Combating Corruption 2020 - 2024. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] With no objection, we shall vote together on three requests submitted by the PSD, the PAN, and the CFP, concerning the appeal by the plenary of the vote, in particular on proposals for amendment to the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on draft Law No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We have moved on to Supplement III and, since it is a matter for the plenary to vote, in particular, the Bureau would like to put to the attention of the ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have two possibilities: each avocado party shall present its own appeal or we shall immediately enter the debate. [[Pause.]] With no objection, we immediately enter the debate. Mrs Inês Sousa Real from the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we will approve a model for the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal which, in essence, has modernised and bet on transparency in relation to the existing model. This is a huge step forward, despite the delaying dossiers that have not only delayed this vote as this debate. For the NAP there are two aspects, however, which cannot be left out of this legislative amendment. The first concerns the period of disgust for political office holders, who clearly remain outside this amendment. And here we are, of course, calling for the common sense of the CFP and the Bloc to accompany us in this legislative amendment, because the « rotating door » also works from the political power to the Banco de Portugal. In fact, the central block has been an example of this in terms of what these appointments have been. in this case, we cannot fail to ask the CFP and the Bloc even find that the figures in the « central bloc » have served the public interest and where that exercise of public interest has been seen to be served by the last Boards of Directors of Banco de Portugal, where 42 % of the members had come from precisely the political power. Do you even think that, for example, Vítor Constâncio, recognized by a political journey, served the public interest in his position with BPN (English Business Bank )? Is the CFP, for example, believe that Miguel Beliaza, who accused — and I quote — of being "one of the revenue executioners of the neoliberal and monetary cartilage", served the public interest? The Banco de Portugal has a number of problems and one of them is indeed its independence from the political power and also the central bloc that has emerged. What we are asking today is that the CFP and the Bloc do not do this to the « central bloc » and that they accompany us on this initiative, that they fall back in your initial position and approve the proposal of the NAP for the consecration of a period of disgust for the holders of political positions in the appointment of the Board of Directors of the Banco de Portugal. The second aspect relates to the entry into force of the law itself. The PS wants to prevent this law from coming into force immediately, in order to allow time for the government to remain free to make the appointments of the Banco de Portugal which will take place in the coming weeks. defer this entry into force for 1 January 2021...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u197	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u198	I conclude now, Mr President. As I was saying, delaying the entry into force of the law by 1 January 2021 is, of course, to allow the nominations that are intended to take place there. And this is where the PSD has to show which side it is on: or it is again on the PS B team, and it is more in favour of the government as it has done with the 15-year debates, or it is on the side of those who want a stronger Parliament and a Banco de Portugal as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u199	Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the evolution of democracy, there are procedures that have to be changed — it is a requirement of society. And for this reason Parliament cannot remain insensitive to what is the debate outside this House, and in particular to the extent of the impediments of those responsible for political positions. I know that in this case there is here a block of all the left to allow and continue to allow government members to pass directly to the governance of Banco de Portugal. A few months ago we had this debate, which at the time was a hot and open debate. But then, when the moment of truth came, of course, the Socialist Party defended its lady, once again not with a flare, but with two flares — the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have to say here today is clearly that we have been learning from the past. And if there were also PSD rulers — it is true that there was, I am here to say eyes in my eyes, I do not hide behind it — what I say is that we have learned, and therefore the situation has to be corrected. And corrected forward, doing the following: avoiding adhumum discussions, which is what you will want, that is, when someone is re-appointed, the character and personality in question are discussed. No, let it be clear from now on that rulers stop being prevented from moving directly to the Banco de Portugal. I want to see your responsibility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u201	The next intervention is for Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP generally deals with amendments to the final text on this project, in particular in what is intended to prevent leaders and people who hold high positions in banks and large consultants from being able to travel directly to the Banco de Portugal, because there is, yes, the great problem of catching the supervisor by the sector itself which is supervised. And now, I would like to ask the PSD if you liked the performance of Carlos Costa, which went directly from bank to Banco de Portugal. But, in this final text, there is something we cannot agree with, and therefore we have also made a request for counsel, which has to do with the entry into force. This is a very important issue because the PSD approved a proposal submitted by the PS, with a view to the entry into force of these rules only on 1 January 2021. In other words, by approving this PS proposal, it allows appointments to the board of directors, which will be made in the coming weeks, not to apply the rules we are discussing here. This is a very important issue and it is necessary to clarify it now. With this appeal, the CFP gives the PSD an opportunity to demonstrate whether it is in fact on the side of transparency or whether it is pushing the decisions we have taken in the Parliamentary Committee on Budgets and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u204	With regard to incompatibility with public office, our position has always been clear. We have always said from the outset that there is no conflict of interest between the exercise of public office and the going to Banco de Portugal. We believe, yes, that the greatest conflict of interest is between the sector that is regulated and the supervisor that regulates it. There is a conflict of interest of the « rotating doors » of the bank to Banco de Portugal, of the large consultants to Banco de Portugal, and there we have seen the great failure of the supposedly independent supervisory model which has given so many scandals, BES, BANIF, BPN, in which it has been shown that this supervisory model does not work. It is through greater public control by Banco de Portugal that there can be the resolution of these problems and not through this false independence that they speak of here, in which, in essence, Banco de Portugal is subject to the banking sector itself, which dominates the supervisor itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u205	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP now has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The history of this legislation is a sad history of delays. As you know, the CDS has a fundamental divergence with regard to this legislation. We believe that, in the case of Banco de Portugal, and also in the case of other fundamental regulators, there should be a consecration of three sovereign bodies to intervene in the appointment process, with the Government to propose, the Assembly of the Republic to be heard and the President of the Republic to be appointed. Our project was plummeted at the beginning, and therefore what we were discussing here was a project that had, above all, to deal with incompatibilities and consecration of incompatibilities. Through alliances of variable geometry, in cases with the PCP and with the Block and in other cases with the PSD, the PS has achieved, whatever is approved here today, that does not apply to Mário Centeno. In other words, through an alliance with the PCP and the Block, which are in favour of incompatibilities, but not in favour of incompatibilities of government members, they have made it simply not to advance this idea. But as there was the PSD, which is in favour of the idea, so that it would not prevent Mário Centeno, then the PSD did not object to the hearing and appointment of Mário Centeno. And here we would run the risk of having a law—in fact, we still run that risk—which is as follows: what does not apply to Mário Centeno does not apply to other appointees in the coming months either. It's the full guarantee! [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] Mr President, if you want me to tell you whether I think Mário Centeno is absolutely incompatible with the position of Governor of the Banco de Portugal, I say - I think! And I think we're going to have a commission of inquiry to the New Bank, which will explain to you, if you had any doubts, because that's what happened, because the same man who led the sale of the New Bank is the man who now supervises that same sale and what resulted from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u207	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u208	If this isn't incompatible, I don't know what it would be. I would have finished my speech if Mr Pedro Delgado Alves wasn't shouting. And because it's become a parliamentary plage to the ladies. Members took off their masks when they wanted the parts to be heard and because I think there was a certain health risk, it might not be worse if it could be avoided.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u209	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block has not changed one millimeter of its position since the beginning of this debate. It is necessary to protect Banco de Portugal from incompatibilities in relation to private, independent from regulated. That is the problem of the bank, it is when it obeys the interests of the private, which is the regulated one. But we do not accept that there is an incompatibility between those who defend the public interest and those who defend the public interest, even if I do not agree with the idea of those who defend the public interest. Mrs PAN, ideological differences are not prohibited, they are discussed. That is why the Left Block argues that the analysis of someone who is the Governor of the Banco de Portugal must be debated in the Assembly of the Republic, with binding opinion, voted here, which compromises all parties. It is not prohibiting ideas just because I do not agree with anyone, who will certainly solve the problems of the bank or any other sector of the Portuguese economy. That is why, from the very beginning, we have proposed a binding opinion. The NAP also proposed it, but it was a binding opinion approved by an absolute majority. Mrs. Member, do you know what the outcome is? I'd only be named who the PS and PSD wanted. For those who do not want to favour the « central bloc », I will tell you, Mrs Deputies, that you did a great favor to the « central bloc ». It was only because the PSD and PS refused this possibility that it was possible to give the Assembly of the Republic the last word on who could be the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. We're sorry it was. We also regret that, on a proposal from the PSD, incompatibilities vis-à-vis the private sector have decreased from five to three years. And we regret the file and delaying maneuvers so that this process does not apply swiftly. Yes, there were delays in the process, they always counted on the PSD and PS vote, they never counted on the vote on the Block nor on the one who delayed the entry into force of this diploma by 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u211	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech. Mr. Deputy, being in the second row, I have to ask you to use a mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u212	Mr President, there has been no such procedure recently, but I agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u213	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. I'm sorry. Please use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS, with mask or without mask, is convinced in its positions. On the other hand, the demonstration of this is that, precisely after a somewhat troubled discussion, we allow, with the positions of the Socialist Party, not to be made, in this Parliament, Leisad mano, laws that embarrassed our parliamentary regime. In fact, the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party were quite consensual, in fact, and allowed us to have a much better law today. We have a law that enables us to solve a problem that is at the root of many problems that we are currently facing, particularly the so-called 'rotating doors' between the regulators and the regulator. In fact, many of the protagonists that we will find soon, were in the auditors, were at Banco de Portugal, in a unequivocal demonstration that, with the position of the Socialist Party, such will not happen again. But we also have a very clear position: we have no doubt that the public interest must be defended in the exercise of political positions, it must be defended in the Public Administration, it must be defended in the Banco de Portugal. Moreover, the holders of political positions, the administration and the Banco de Portugal have a duty, which is to defend the public interest. So there is no incompatibility here. Indeed, there is an incompatibility between the regulators, the regulators, the auditors and the Banco de Portugal. And, therefore, we have created a three-year standard on this subject. But more: we guarantee the gender quota, i.e. the guarantee that there will also be the principle of gender equality in Banco de Portugal. We also guarantee that we will, in fact, have better legislation, we will have parliamentary scrutiny, which will be a reasoned report, a reasoned and verified opinion in Parliament. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party's conviction is that we have made a good law, which will allow us to have more scrutiny, transparency and effectiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u215	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy. [[It's out of the mask!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u216	You're absolutely right. Mr. Deputy, as you are in the second row, please use the mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u217	Mr President, if so, will I now have to make all the mask interventions?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u218	Mr President, it is a rule that must apply to everyone in all circumstances. I'm sorry. Please give your speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This process actually shows many things that are really bad in politics in Portugal, because what we are discussing here today was to have been discussed two months ago before the appointment of Mário Centeno. And don't come up with the theory that it would be an ad hommem law, because that's not what this is about. The left says there are problems of promiscuity between supervisors and supervisors. We agree. But there is no longer any problem between guardians and guardians when they travel directly to each other. And if there were any doubts, it is enough to see what has happened in the public statements of the former Minister of Finance, and even in the hearings he asks the President of the Republic, to explain his concern about the situation of the New Bank. I would like to know how the Governor of Banco de Portugal will evaluate what the Minister of Finance has done in the last five years in this area of the New Bank. I would like to know, if there were any doubts, about the promiscuity between guardianship and guardianship. But I am very sorry to say, the PSD is not free of responsibilities in this postponement, because it did not allow this case to be discussed before the appointment of Prof. Mário Centeno was made, and there was every opportunity to do so. And I am very afraid that this history of the date of entry into force is not in accordance with the law, which is usually five days after publication, but of being only on January 1, has to do with interests that you have in appointing administrators to the Banco de Portugal. I am very afraid that this will happen and, if so, it will be another bad sign of the state of politics in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u220	To make the last speech in this debate on lawyers, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u221	Mr President, what we are discussing here was perfectly avoidable if we were able to mobilize in a timely manner, with the strength and form we needed, to avoid what the PS calls 'ad umum nomination', but we all know that we are talking about the entry of a minister directly to the Banco de Portugal, the entry of a minister who has supervised an operation and will now provide clarification on that operation as head of regulation. There would be no country in Europe where this would happen without democracy laughing when it looked at this situation. But worse, we had everything in our hands and, some with the argument that they did not want incompatibility ad homme, others with the argument that they did not want incompatibility forever, others still with the argument that the legislative process should not be rushed, the result is in sight and the Portuguese will not let them judge. We could have used the arguments we wanted, but what happened out there was that Parliament decided not to oppose the appointment of Mário Centeno to Banco de Portugal. No one will want to know what arguments they chose, whether because it was not ad hommem or because legislative processes are not being rushed. This was what was on the table and what history will judge will be the day this Parliament has held in hand the possibility of preventing a minister from going to the Banco de Portugal at one of the most crucial moments in the history of financial operations in Portugal and not having the courage, capacity or strength to do so. It gave in to the government, gave in to the interests of centralism and, above all, gave in to the interest of the socialist government, which at each step threatens a political crisis and with elections in view. This is what happened and it must embarrass us as Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u222	Mrs. Members, after the debate on the required avocados, we shall proceed to the respective votes, in the specialty, contained in Supplement III, concerning the final text, submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance, on Bill No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( Eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ). We begin with the vote on Article 27 ( ( a ). the Organic Law of Banco de Portugal, as set out in Article 2. the draft law (advocacy required by the NAP). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the 27 ( b ) vote. the Organic Law of Banco de Portugal, as set out in Article 2. the draft law (advocacy required by the NAP). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] Mrs. Members, we continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 27 ( ( c) ( 8 ). the Organic Law of Banco de Portugal, as set out in Article 2. the final text ( PSD required ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u223	Mr President, I was in doubt because Mr President said that this was Article 27 ( 8 ( c ). the, but I believe we voted Article 27 ( 3 ( c ). o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u224	Madam Member, I have just read what is in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u225	Mr. President, I think the script is wrong, because what was a lawyer was what I said. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is a renumbering in the final text, the matter remains settled with the vote that we have just done. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Article 4. the draft law (advocacy required by the NAP). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL and abstentions by non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Article 4. the final text ( acvocacy required by the PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS and PSD and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr. João Paulo Correia asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u226	Mr President, to make a point of order on the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u227	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u228	Mr President, it is clear that at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance where this whole process was discussed and voted on in connection with the new rules for appointment to the Banco de Portugal, Mr André Ventura of the Arrival, not only was it not present in the debate but it did not participate in the vote, so we were amazed at the speech you made here, because it was not consistent with your participation in the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u229	Mr President, that is not really a point of order. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back to the main vote script. We begin by voting on the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets and Finance in the overall final vote on Bill No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend the rules for the appointment of the Governor and the other members of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal ( Eighth amendment to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January ). [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PAN, the CH and the IL, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft Law No 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Special social support programme for former COFACO workers. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No 52 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Privileges the alternative residence model whenever this corresponds to the best interests of the child, except the decree of this regime to cases of child abuse, neglect and domestic violence. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 114 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the Civil Code, providing for the alternative residence regime of the child in regulating the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, Non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues and PS deputy Sérgio Sousa Pinto and abstention from IL.]] We continue, in general, with the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Alter the Civil Code, establishing the principle of alternate residence of the child in the event of divorce, judicial separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of the marriage of the parents, 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — 76. the amendment to the Civil Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 47 344 of 25 November 1966, amending the regime of the exercise of parental responsibilities in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property, declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage, in order to clarify that the court may determine the alternate residence of the child with each of the parents where such corresponds to the best interests of the minor, and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — On the establishment of the alternative residence of minors in the event of divorce, legal separation of persons and property and declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PAN and PEV.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u230	Mr President, it is to announce an oral vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u231	All right, Mrs. Deputy. It will be done at the end of the vote. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u232	Mr President, it is also to announce a statement of vote, but in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u233	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality within the Commission on the text of substitution presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ), 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the overall final vote on this replacement text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, PAN and PEV.]] Finally, we shall vote on an opinion from the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members which Mrs Sofia Araújo will do in favour of announcing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of the Members on the Office No 85 / 14. a-CTED / 2020 is to authorize PSD Member Alberto Amaro Guedes Machado to intervene in a proceeding running at the Court of Justice of the Comarca do Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, in order to produce the announced oral vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bills Nos 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ), 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), has the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which concerns Bills Nos 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ), 107 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) and 110 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), leaving out the initiatives of the Left Block and the PAN, means that we cannot follow this whole initiative. The NAP abstained because, indeed, it seems to us that this replacement text distorts the scope of the working group itself and the initiative. What was intended was a preferential regime, not being at stake the clarification of the legislation and basically it seems to us that this wording does not, to a large extent, change the letter of the law already existing, however, to us always be to safeguard the best interests of the child. This is not at all concerned with the scope of this wording, but it seems to us that what was to guarantee a right of the minor himself to the more equal participation of both parents, obviously safeguarding cases of child abuse and domestic violence, continues to have a way to go in law. Despite this, we cannot fail to welcome the work done in this working group, particularly the various hearings held and the way in which the work of the Coordinator was deepened, which was rather diligent and profound in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-02.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our agenda. The next plenary session will be on 7 Wednesday for 3 p.m. and will have two points on the agenda. The first is a debate with the Government on general policy and the second is a preparatory debate by the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation in this session and I wish you a good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 32 minutes.]]
