ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. As you know today, elections will take place in Conference Room D. Maria for the following bodies outside the Assembly of the Republic : from two judges to the Constitutional Court ; for President of the Economic and Social Council ; and from seven votes (and alternates) to the Superior Council of the Magistracy. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are voting in the morning. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will now report on the file before we get on the agenda. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Very good day to all and to all. He entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, draft resolution No 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends urgent and specific measures to the Government in strengthening public services, in increasing control and supervision over the working conditions of agricultural workers and in ensuring decent housing within the Mira River perimeter, which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u3	Let us then enter the hour of the day, of which the first point is the general discussion of the Bill No 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic reporting and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material. To open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The strengthening of the protection of the freedom and sexual self-determination of minors has for many years been assumed as a central mission of the State, the judiciary and the security forces, but does not provide a permanent update of the applicable regulatory framework. It does not exempt the intervention of criminal law, it does not exempt international cooperation, it does not exempt us from taking into account best practices compared with evidence given and improving the ability to respond. Nor does it exempt the constitutional conformity of the options taken, a matter which is not irrelevant. in this sense, before the Lanzarote Convention ( Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploration and Sexual Abuse ), of which the Portuguese State is a subscriber, and before Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council, which has already recovered and updated a previous framework decision, has been addressed a set of recommendations to the Portuguese State by the Committee accompanying the implementation of the Lanzarote Convention, in the sense of the need for some improvements in the legislation in force, continuing to make the way initiated in 2007 by the revision of the Penal Code, but which has continued over the last years with a view to being evaluated and improved. Therefore, what we are proposing today is a set of amendments within the Penal Code and also the legislation on the use of the Internet, with a view to achieving these objectives: firstly, an extension of the criminal jurisdiction, so that the jurisdiction of the Portuguese State also covers crimes committed against minors abroad, extending the ability to punish the facts in the presence; secondly, an increase in the criminal liability of the public, to cover also the crimes involving the commission of minors for sexual purposes; thirdly, a review of the crime of sexual abuse of dependent minors, so as to reconstitute it and to cover more vulnerable situations than those currently foreseen; fourthly, to give public character to the crime of sexual acts with adolescents; and, fifthly, to denify the concept and to expand the type present in the crime of child pornography, in order to cover all conduct that is clearly to be also subject to repression and prevention. Finally, a new criminal type is added, that of the organization of travel for sexual tourism purposes. thus, we combine what are recommendations of the Lanzarote Convention with our legal order. On the other hand, at the level of crimes committed through the computer system, it is important to bear in mind that the introduction of new information duties and automatic blocking duties of certain sites is necessary — obviously validated immediately within a short period by the judicial authority, also to ensure that freedom of expression is guarded in situations where it does not correspond to the practice of such illegals — whose identification is also made by drawing up lists that allow for more rapid detection. We are still awaiting a number of opinions from the entities to which they were requested, and these clues have also been pointed out in the opinion adopted yesterday in 1. the Commission. But at least we already know that we will need to improve some things, in the field of expertise, in particular some of the concepts of Decree-Law No 7/2004 of 7 January, which need to be clarified and clarified. And even the subject of the organization of travel for the purposes of sexual tourism, it is important that it can be revisited to ensure the constitutional conformity of the conducts put there. I believe that all parliamentary groups and parties agree with the aims. And I also think that, since this is the way to constructively ensure a law that better protects the protection of minors, we will all surely be inspired by the debate that will have to be followed in the field of specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke by the PAN Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are obviously following this initiative of the Socialist Party, which reinforces the mechanisms for the protection of minors against sexual abuse, because it is essential to update what is the Directive, seeking to meet the recommendations of the Lanzarote Committee, which are reflected in the initial report on the evaluation of compliance with the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploration and Sexual Abuse, crimes which are completely inconceivable in our society and which should also deserve a political effort not only to strengthen what is the existing legislative framework but also to prevent such crimes and to give individualised response to children who may in some way have gone through this situation. It is in this sense that, in addition to the scope of this initiative, the NAP considers it essential that there are resources allocated and funding to the different institutions, whether to the judiciary for the implementation and processing of proceedings, or at a preventive level — and here we can also point out the difference — in order to comply with what is necessary to prevent and prevent children from being exposed to such crimes. In addition, we recall a measure presented by the NAP during the discussion of the State Budget, with regard to special educational protective measures, in the area of sexuality, because of situations of sexual abuse, since requests that have been made to the Directorate-General for Social Integration ( DGRS ) have often been unanswered. This has an impact on the social monitoring and reintegration of children and young people who may have been victims of this crime. in this sense, our proposal has strengthened funding for the follow-up of children and young people, in compliance with special educational protective measures in the area of sexuality, by situations of sexual abuse, thus ensuring better follow-up, social reintegration and also re-education of these children and young people, with a view to their recovery and their restoration not only physical but also emotional. This is a reality which, unfortunately, we cannot ignore and which also takes place in our country, because children, like women, are the groups most exposed to crime and sexual exploitation, and are still the most vulnerable groups in many parts of the world. Another reality, which we have not talked about and which escapes a little from what is the initiative and scope of this directive, but which is effectively related, are forced marriages, which, despite being a somewhat hidden reality, also take place in our society and, in particular, in our country, withdrawing, in a dramatic way, to children and, in particular, to girls their rights, their freedom and sexual self-determination, leaving unmistakable marks for life. Worldwide, there are over 700 million women who married before reaching the majority. This phenomenon, despite being hidden and little worked in Portugal, has also been detected several cases in our country, with the physical and psychological consequences of these abuses and forced marriages. The NAP therefore intended, with its proposal to amend the State budget, to strengthen the rights of these children through a measure aimed at the creation of a support programme, which includes, among other aspects, identification of cases, psychological support and shelters, specific to the victims of forced early marriage, thus ensuring greater follow-up of these victims. Unfortunately last week, we rejected an initiative aimed at setting up an observatory, working with the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children ( CNPDPCJ ), in particular on planning, monitoring and evaluation of a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( CDC ). There is thus a long way to go. But we welcome and will follow this initiative that the Socialist Party brings us here today. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u7	For an intervention, Mrs Mónica Quintela, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Directive against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Exploitation of Children and Child Pornography had already been transposed into our legal order by Law No 103 / 2015 of 24 August 2015. The proposed bill is now aimed at improving existing child protection responses against sexual exploitation and abuse. It is therefore justified and very welcome, because everything that concerns these matters deserves our greatest appreciation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u10	The exploitation of minors for the purposes of pornography and other sexual abuse is largely enhanced by new technologies and the Internet, usually used by minor victims and aggressors. in a society dazzled by the wonders of technology, in this admirable new world in which you live connected to social networks, looks at the danger, being imperative the defense and protection of our children, particularly vulnerable victims. It is proposed that measures be taken to prevent the spread of images that harm children's integrity through the Internet and with which we tend to agree. However, we disagree with the proposal to amend the nature of the crime in Article 173. the Criminal Code, from semi-public to public. Let's see: the directive provides that sexual crimes against minors, in principle, are of a public nature. In our legal order, all sexual crimes against minors are public in nature, with the exception of Article 173. the Penal Code, which provides for sexual acts with adolescents, i.e. between 14 and 16 years of age, except when their practice results in suicide or the death of the victim. The Directive also states that it is for Member States to decide whether to apply it in situations of proximity of age and degree of physical and psychological development, provided that such acts do not entail any abuse or sexual exploitation. Let's imagine, ladies and gentlemen. Members, one couple of lovers, in which one is 18 years old and the other is 15 years old, or in which one is 19 years old and the other is almost doing 16 ( two or three days away). in a situation like this, we ask : is there notice of a criminal reaction by the State? We don't think so. The decision to participate, or not, criminally must continue to be available to the legal representatives of the victim, for their own protection, to avoid secondary victimisation and because there can simply be no crime. So, let's just imagine this situation. in this particular, our disagreement. Moreover, the appreciation for our work together and in particular in favour of these matters in the field of expertise. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u11	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the bill presented by the PS one more step is taken in the protection of children and young people who are involved in acts of sexual exploitation and of different sexual abuse. It is essential to strengthen defense mechanisms and, above all, prevention mechanisms so that children are not used in these crimes, which leave psychological, physical and social marks for life. Despite the various national and international instruments available, it is essential that there is a path of evolution in responses to issues such as the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography. It is necessary to adapt the instruments and strengthen the penal and procedural framework for crimes against children's sexual freedom and self-determination, as well as to implement measures that prevent the proliferation of harmful images of children on the Internet. They are measures that bring us closer to a future without a place for these crimes and the construction of a better place for children and young people to grow up and become responsible and happy adults. To this end, and repeating what we have already said last week, it is necessary to strengthen existing structures, such as CPCJ (protection committees for children and young people), which need to strengthen human, technical and material resources, to do their work of case monitoring, effective protection for children and young people who, unfortunately, may be experiencing problems in the family context or others. These structures of State responsibility cannot remain dependent on the structures of civil society. Its role is also to prevent and, for this, early interventions and knowledge of the territory are necessary. The Greens therefore reaffirm that defending children and young people from crimes and sexual violence is about ensuring the necessary changes and adapted to the times in which we live. But we must also point out that we are not packaging ourselves in easy demagogy or in ideas that everything is solved with more penalties and even with very sound penalties. Since we need to protect the children of these crimes, and if they are involved in acts of violence, we are able to provide adequate support through the guarantee that the public structures dealing with our children and our young people can be equipped with psychologists and that the assistants and teachers have adequate training to identify requests for help.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to important information: Members who have already been voted will have to do so again, because in the meantime they will have to change the ballot concerning the vote on the Constitutional Court judges, which must be a single bulletin, where they contain all the names, and not two different bulletins. That is, in this case, it has to be a two-named bulletin. I ask you to understand. This was a service mistake. Let us give time for this amendment to take place, and I would therefore ask the honourable Members to do so. Members to begin voting from 11 a.m. onwards. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u14	Mr. President and Mr. Members: If we are a community of free people, a crime against one of us is a crime against all of us. But a crime against a minor is more than that: it is a blow in the future of our community. And if the crime is sexual, it is even worse, given the importance of sexuality in the development of the individual and the severity of the trauma caused by these crimes. In particular, fear, especially fear, which is installed and which will be for these children, and forever, a brake to their individual freedom. We will therefore support this legislation, confident that a new penal and penal framework is a necessary condition, but it is far from sufficient. The real struggle counts on the sexual exploitation and abuse of minors. It is against cowards who, under the anonymity of the Internet or in the shadows of the dark web, practice or facilitate these crimes. It involves qualified human resources and sophisticated technical means to serve the fight against cybercrime. Unfortunately, and judging by the statements by the Minister of Internal Administration in this House and by the Socialist Party's position in discussions on the budget of the Judicial Police, there seems to be no great means. It is PS to be PS: spectacular legislation to wash away consciousness; implementation and monitoring soon you see it! We vote in favour of this initiative and hope that they will vote in favour of us when we propose again the strengthening of means to combat this scourge,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, we hope that they will vote in favour when we propose again to strengthen the means of combating this scourge that destroys the children of the victims and undermines the foundations of a free society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u17	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sexual crimes against children are of the most terrifying and intolerable crimes we have in our society and that leave irreversible marks in the lives of so many children and so many young people. It's been about 3000 in the last three years. RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ) 2018 tells us, moreover, that 43% of crimes against sexual self-determination relate to child sexual abuse, followed by child pornography. We know that they are crimes that, as in cases of domestic violence or rape, occur mostly in the context of family relations or proximity; that they have the same, or very similar, proof difficulties; that they also deal with the slowness of justice and the devaluation of these crimes, expressed in the low number of convictions and even fewer effective penalties. We therefore welcome the Socialist Party's bill and follow several of the proposals contained therein, such as the extension of the Portuguese criminal jurisdiction and the issues relating to the crime of the solicitation of minors for sexual purposes or pornography of minors. We have two reservations, in addition to those mentioned here by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves. The first relates to the Socialist Party's option to eliminate, within minimum and maximum limits, the aggravating of the crime of prostitution of minors when it comes to a victim under 14 years of age. The second concerns the Socialist Party's intention to make public crime the crime of sexual acts with adolescents. Sexual abuse of children or dependent minors is already a public crime, and well, of course. We are concerned that doing the same with sexual acts with minors between the ages of 14 and 16 should open the door to a prospect, in some conservative way, that would arrogate the right to censor sex, for example between lovers. We think of a couple of lovers who are 15 or 16 years old and the other is 18 or 19 years old and that the relationship is condemned by the younger parents, for example. They can, with the Socialist Party's proposal, initiate a judicial process against the oldest, thus ruining the life of those who were simply in a relationship of courtship and in which there was no kind of crime configuration. More: Even recently, the Socialist Party criticized the Left Block's proposal to make rape a public crime. What justifies that now, for more than one crime with more difficult lines to define, this argument is forgotten? Are we facing a change of position? We will vote in favour of this bill, with the exception that these issues deserve a more accurate debate and due consultation with various entities—which, in fact, the various substitutions that this project has been targeted, since it has entered, advise — and that we hope to have the opportunity to carry out in the field of expertise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u19	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u20	Mr. President and Mr. Members : We see with great interest this bill presented by the Socialist Party. It seems to us an interesting and useful initiative, in an area where, of course, there is every chance that legislative improvements will be introduced. I believe that there are two aspects that need to be distinguished and that have already been present in this debate. One aspect has to do with the need to improve our legislative order in order to cover situations that are currently imperfectly covered by our legal order. On the other hand, the second aspect has to do with the means necessary to combat civilization, the fight against sexual violence against minors, including the use of minors for pornography. It is therefore obviously important that there should be a very great commitment on the part of the democratic State to combat these phenomena by providing the necessary means at all levels, either at the level of child and youth protection committees, either at the level of the judiciary, security forces, social and psychological support, so that these situations are prevented or, in situations where they occur, children can be effectively protected. That is another area in which we will certainly all agree, it is necessary to intervene, but which, of course, is something different than legislative intervention. Legislative intervention should not be based on contests of ideas which sometimes tend to be launched to see who has the most spectacular proposal in particular. That should not be the way and, in this draft law of the Socialist Party, that is not definitely the way. That is why we say that this initiative, from our point of view, has all the cabbage. Of course, there have already been objections here, which must of course be considered in the debate that we are going to have in the field of specialty. In fact, there are opinions from several entities that are expected to arrive at this House. Obviously, it makes every sense that this legislative process can collect these contributions, which will only enrich and help to correct the solutions to be considered. But it is important to say that, essentially, the aspects mentioned here, either in extending the scope of application of the Portuguese jurisdiction to situations that are not covered today or in view of the fact that sexual violence against minors is also exercised via the Internet, of course they must be considered in our legal system. That makes all the sense. We therefore believe that, in general, with the adoption of this legislative initiative and with a process, in particular, that it is not hastened but that, in any event, it is speedy, we can improve, in a positive way, our legal order. For our part, that is the provision with which we are in this legislative process. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u21	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say that this matter is of the greatest importance and that this is in some way a continuous fight, which has not begun here and will certainly not end here. In fact, and as has already been mentioned, within the crimes provided for in the legal order, it is difficult to find a more heinous, more repugnant, more abusive crime than pornography with minors, sex trafficking of minors, the exploitation of minors or pedophilia. It's hard to find a more overwhelming crime. That is perhaps why this crime particularly shocks public opinion, and that is why there are two or three fundamental currents in combating this crime. There will never be, contrary to what has been said here, a sort of contest of ideas. The ideas are known, established, and the paths that are followed in the various countries are also known and established for many years. The CDS has a story in this matter. We were the first parties to propose, for example, the criminalization of the use, or possession, of pornography with minors. We were the first to propose this, we have a history and we have taken initiatives in this area. However, I wanted to say here that it does not stop being curious that if you are the gentlemen. Members are paying attention to the debate on this and the proposals which the Socialist Party brings to us today in public opinion, and even in social communication, curiously, the great highlight is not what we are going to discuss, but what has been removed from the agenda and that we will not be able to discuss. Don't stop being curious. I wanted to underline and make it very clear that it is difficult to find a precedent — and an absolutely wrong precedent! —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u24	... which was opened yesterday by the Socialist Party: the simple majority, at the headquarters of 1. the Commission, stop what we can or can not discuss in this plenary. I would like to recall that proposals such as the so-called "list of pedophiles", proposals such as the criminalization of pornography or the arrest of pornography, at the time were also considered unconstitutional, also raised doubts of constitutionality. But no one laid down the right, in a conjugation between an opinion of the Socialist Party, in 1. the Commission, and a decision of the presidency here to put an end to this same debate. Why? It is that this debate is what citizens do, it is a discussion that has public opinion and whose debate should not be banned. Finally, it is a decision of such great good sense that what I would probably have a vote in this plenary becomes the great topic of discussion in Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u25	Just like that! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u26	Having said this, I wanted to say that, in relation to the proposal that the Socialist Party brings, not to those which the Socialist Party barred,... [[It's stuck, and it's fine!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u27	... and that they would also have our vote against — that there is no doubt about it — this will have our support. In other words, amend Article 5. that of the Criminal Code, expanding the responsibility of the public, taking measures to combat sexual tourism, defining and densifying the concept of child pornography, none of which, for us, is a problem and will obviously have our support. It is not, however, a closed discussion, and it is, in our view, a discussion in which all solutions, from the most radical to the least radical, could and should be on the table, so that this House can decide in absolute freedom. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u28	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u29	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Today, the whole country is discussing a proposal which the Socialist Party and the Communist Party felt should not be able to enter this House. They will forever be associated with the idea that the country can discuss but that Parliament cannot discuss,... [[PS and ENP protests.]] ...because the Portuguese have no idea what they can or can't discuss. This is the Parliament we have. [[PS and ENP protests.]] But still, this proposal of the Socialist Party,... [[PS protests.]] Does chemical castration leave you with so many problems that you won't let me talk? [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u30	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be quiet and let Mr Ventura express himself, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said, this proposal by the Socialist Party still leaves us with a number of questions to be resolved, such as, for example, a misdefinition of what is pornographic material, a very scarce worsening of penalties, or a rise in the criminal framework, which, for any average person, would fall far short of its definition, particularly as regards Article 177(7). the, which will, of course, have to be re-examined in the field of specialty. Today, half of the cases of child pornography do not come to trial. What does this proposal bring us about? Nothing, absolutely nothing! We now have a trial in which someone is being tried for more than 140 000 crimes of child pornography, and on that we continue to look to the side, as if it were not an important issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u32	Mr. Deputies, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only this: The arrival follows the concerns that the NAP brought here today in relation to forced marriage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u34	Mr. Deputies, the clock has stopped counting the time, but the Bureau has already run out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u35	Mr President, I just wanted to say the following: The arrival follows the concern of children's marriages in Portugal, particularly in some communities. It's a problem and you have to put your finger on the wound.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u36	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I will vote in favour of this legislative initiative because all legislative improvements are absolutely fundamental and why we need to fight impunity and judicial relativization. They are the most vulnerable. There must be an absolute repudiation and an investment in the State to strengthen the bodies and entities to combat sexual abuse and violence of minors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u38	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be a telegraph in my response to some of the comments that have been made. Mrs Inês Real, the National Strategy for the Rights of the Child cautions the proposal presented by the NAP on the creation of a way to monitor and observe. The PS had even submitted a proposal almost identical to that of the NAP before this strategy was developed. Therefore, the means exist and are provided for by law. By the way, a note: forced marriages are a crime in the Portuguese legal order since 2015. Since 2015, there has been a national strategy that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u40	It's not applied!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u41	... provides precisely the means of monitoring minors who are forced into marriage. The subject matter is therefore, of course, the entire availability to continue investing in it. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, whenever he asks for additional means for the State, an angel wins wings because it is the recognition that the most liberal party in this House recognises the need for the State and its fundamental role. We will always be available to continue this debate and to continue to strengthen it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the substance of this initiative, we have full availability to debate both Decree-Law No. 7 / 2004, and reflection on travel organizations for sexual tourism purposes. But it is also necessary, we recognize, to address the public nature of the crime of sexual acts with adolescents and to identify where there is a consensus. Obviously, no one wants to look at dating cases and see the problem there. The problem is when the situations are not these and how much, for example, we have a younger than 14 years that deals with someone who is not your boyfriend and who is clearly not in the same age group. Therefore, if there is a consensus, of course, it must be taken into account for the whole dimension of the legislation that we are changing. And international recommendations go towards public crime. We can therefore improve this legislation. We have every opportunity to do this exercise. Finally, one last note: this debate is about what he is, Mr Telmo Correia and Mr André Ventura! It's about what he is, because 1. the Commission unanimously — there was no majority of the circumstances —... [[CH protests.]] ... said that this initiative itself, Mr. André Ventura, was unconstitutional and violated fundamental principles of the Constitution and the legal order.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u42	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u43	Your time is up, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u44	in this Chamber, in which we guide Fernandes Tomás and the Constitutional Courts of 1821, should inspire us at this moment their first measures then taken, which were to end the infamous penalties and the degradation that was the previous criminal system to the Marquis de Beccaria. We therefore feel inspired by Fernandes Tomás, the year in which we celebrate the bicentennial of the Liberal Revolution and the Humanism of Criminal Law. [[CH and CDS-PP Member Protests Telmo Correia.]] For this reason it has been prevented, and very well, the discussion of your initiative, Mr André Ventura, because the Constitution is not something for which we are in paints, it is something that structures our intervention in public space and in legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u45	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the third item on the agenda, I just wanted to correct some information I gave recently. I have been reading the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which says on the votes that the ballots contain, in alphabetical order, the names of all candidates and that, before each name, there is a blank square to be marked with the choice of the elector. That is to say, the ballot which is currently being used by the honourable Members and by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen in the votes that are taking place are perfectly legal. There has been some confusion by some of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue the voting with the same bulletin. Let us then move on to point three of the agenda, of which is the assessment of the Draft Resolution No 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Make several recommendations to the Government arising from the sale announced by EDP, Energies de Portugal, SA of six dams in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real. You have the floor for one speech, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Council of Ministers yesterday in Bragança could be — I stress, it could be! — a concrete sign that everything is imperative to promote people who want to live, work and invest within Portugal. Also yesterday's measures announced in Bragança, although some of them recycled and repeated, can be small contributions to the appreciation of low density territories. In other words, it all sounds scarce, everything is very vague. This all generates a sensation of a ritual that, concretely, brings little. Let us then speak of concrete measures for the enhancement of the interior and for the cohesion of Portugal, such as those which enshrine the draft resolution of the PSD which today, on our initiative, is being discussed and which makes several recommendations to the Government on the sale of six large dams in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real. As you know, EDP will sell the Miranda Douro Dams, Bemposta, Picote, Foz Tua, Low Taste and Wizard for a value that is announced more than 2,2 billion euros. In other words, EDP will sell major equipment that produces a high percentage of electricity that all Portuguese consume and retain the largest freshwater reserves in Portugal. It is an incalculable wealth, originating in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real. It is one of the most sensitive goods that the Portuguese enjoy in their daily lives. This is therefore the appropriate time to require that the Government, this Government, which conducts Councils of Ministers in Bragança, do everything to ensure that the transmountans have the fair financial and capital compensation of the resources they make available to the Portuguese. This sale cannot occur by forgetting the transmontanes. This sale must bring fair compensation to local populations. This is what the PSD wants, when it recommends that the newly-created companies be located in this territory, or that the revenues that the State collects with the sales are destined for a regional development fund, or even if the taxes that this sale and this heritage generate are reinvested in the Tres-os-Montes. But we want more: we want water reserves to be valued and their strategic impact, as well as essential for Portugal. In short, we want justice to be done and we want national solidarity to be promoted with the transmountans, in particular, and with the people of the interior, in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u48	This was expected to be discussed yesterday by the Council of Ministers in Bragança. This is what the Council of Ministers has neither debated nor decided. These silences, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they are increasingly unbearable and, in spite of everything, they leave a feeling of illusion and disappointment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u49	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: EDP announced the intention to sell to a French consortium the granting of six dams from the Douro river basin : Miranda, Bemposta, Picote, Foz Tua, Low flavor and Wizard. The set of these dams represents an installed power of 1700 MW, about 25 % of the total hydropower installed in the country. EDP is today a private foreign capital company as a result of privatization by a PSD government / CDS, which had the strong opposition of the CFP. Since its privatisation, EDP has shut down the construction programme of new hydroelectric projects and has invested heavily abroad until it reaches this point, where it wants to alienate concessions which, I repeat, represent 25 % of the national hydroelectric power. The PSD, which privatized EDP, now proposes that the region be compensated for the consequences of this sale. However, before that discussion, it must first be understood whether or not this sale should be authorised by the Government. Yes, because the Government has this legal prerogative to be able to approve or not authorize the sale of the concession. It was in this sense that the CFP submitted a draft resolution, which was discussed in committee and will be put to the vote today, in plenary, in order to recommend to the Government that it not authorize this sale, for various reasons. First of all, we are talking about a strategic asset in national electricity production, from the start of its renewable component, which becomes even more strategic within the framework of the closure of coal thermal power plants. It would be a mistake to allow greater segmentation of the ownership and management of the public system of large dams, dispersing its concession by several private companies. This segmentation would be an obstacle to the recovery of a picture that guarantees the comprehensive and unique conduction of the National Electric System, according to the interests of the country. Secondly, this is a strategic asset as a fundamental instrument of water storage and supply and also of river flow management. Dispersing asset management with this importance, even more so in an international river, is a mistake. Thirdly, EDP, being a private and foreign capital company, continues to present a national genetic brand, mainly due to the posture, experience and professionalism of its workers and frames, which obviously assume the historical connection of the company to its country. This sale may even be good for EDP shareholders, but it is not good for the country. Mrs. Members, if the law provides for the possibility of government not authorising this sale, it is because it was considered that there was an undeniable strategic component for the country. What the CFP is advocating is that the Government should not view this authorisation as mere formality, but rather as a political decision, which, in our view, should not be allowed to sell it. If the sale happens, we agree that there are regional compensations to the districts of Bragança and Vila Real, but the fundamental is, as the CFP proposes, to avoid the authorization of this sale, which goes against the national interest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u51	Mr Miguel Matos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country faces great challenges, including that of the climate emergency, for which these dams are involved, but today we must talk about the fundamental challenge of interiority, unequal and unfair geography of opportunities, and respect—yes, respect! — that we owe the people who have paid the bill to have these dams in their territory but who have not yet seen their return. It is with this respect and also in respect of the law that the Government must rule on the alienation of the granting of dams. I would like to greet the municipality of Mogadouro and the Douro Movement, for the motion and petition they have on this subject. We should not feed fears about Engie, which is already a strategic operator in the National Electric System. In the opinion of the Socialist Party, alienation must promote public interest in three fundamental aspects: first, employment. We must not only ensure that the volume of employment is maintained, but also its quality and acquired rights. We must also promote that the new jobs which Engie is expected to create in the wake of this alienation may be in the regions and for whom it is from the regions. Secondly, this process cannot dilute the responsibilities of the concessionaire. It cannot do so in the management of the river, which will become three barrier operators throughout its international course, and cannot, for example, do so in the investment in Tua's mobility system. Competition must be a reason for honouring and not breaking commitments. The third aspect, the main of the project we are discussing today, is that of tax revenues. Within what law allows, it is fair that local regions and populations may benefit from the tax revenues of the hydroelectric exploitation of their territory. The Low-Savour Fund provides a good example of what it is possible to do when there is this share of local development income. These three concerns — collecting revenue, keeping employment and honouring commitments — must be respected for the public interest in this sales process to be sustained. But what we cannot do is go against the law and that is what the PSD draft resolution proposes, because both in VAT, IMI or in the distribution of spillage, the law currently does not support what the PSD proposes. That is why the Socialist Party cannot follow the claims of the PSD. However, we will remain firm in defending the interests of the interior and the populations of those regions, because, as we demonstrated yesterday in Bragança, and throughout this week, the Socialist Party is even the party that does most for the regions and the people of the interior and that is why we will continue to implement our policies of development of the interior and bring resources to these regions and opportunities to these people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u53	Mr Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This project translates the position of the PSD, which does not oppose the process of dismantling EDP — a company of great importance to our country — as in fact it could not fail to be, since it was the PSD and the CDS, always accompanied by its faithful friend on these occasions, the PS, who delivered EDP to foreign capital, losing the country an essential lever for its development. The number the PSD presents to us today is just to try to make you forget your responsibilities in opening the door so that EDP is selling some of your assets. It is good that the PSD does not even approach the question that has to be made, since at the moment no one questions the sale. I read the project, it is noticed that for the PSD it is: "Let yourself be sold at will or even at the vanadine! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The Greens had reason when they opposed this privatisation, stating that it was the first step towards selling the company to the plots. In addition, this project, although it speaks of environmental impacts and their reassessment, makes mucosal ears to the many impacts that dams have in the environment and that the Greens Ecologist Party has long denounced. These impacts will be even more serious if the original holder is removed, abdicating global management and a name to be defended, and surrendering himself to those who are intended only for immediate profit, at any cost and with serious damage to the populations. The concerns, which at other times were denied when they were reported by the Greens, are now confirmed when the PSD claims that, and I quote: « There is a proper monitoring of water quality and maintenance of the minimum flows ». In other words, the dangers really exist. Finally, the PSD is asking for compensation for the municipalities. This request is, of course, the recognition of the impacts that these dams have, because otherwise it would not be understood why municipalities would have to be compensated. The Greens Ecological Party had reason when it opposed this National Barrage Plan, which represented only a small part of the energy production in Portugal and did not compensate for the strong environmental and cultural impacts. After the private group, which dominates EDP, has already won much of these impacts and losses, will win even more with this negotiation than the PSD actually wants to validate. This is what's on the table today. The Greens had reason when they demanded alternative solutions. [[PEV applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u55	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is important to make this debate a retrospective in order to have the historical significance of the dismantling of EDP, which is at stake with the sale of these dams. In the privatisation process, the promise that the governments of the Socialist Party and PSD/CDS have always been making was, firstly, that the process should maintain the integrity of the company and, secondly, that EDP would remain as a national decision-making centre. These two main criteria, these two major guarantees were always present in the government's speeches throughout the privatisation process. In fact, it was with this precise argument that the grant without competition of the entire national water electro-producer system was guaranteed in favour of EDP illegally—because the law required the performance of this competition—and with enormous advantages which are now in sight when we see the size of the business that EDP is able to make in possession of these dams. Therefore, the barriers were given to EDP, without competition, to ensure the integrity of the company and its possession as a national decision-making centre and what we now see is that these guarantees were false, were a lie told to the population. EDP is about to be dismantled as a large national company and handed over to foreign shareholders, fragmenting the whole hydroelectric production system. This dismantling has strategic consequences of great magnitude. It corresponds to the strategy of accumulation of foreign shareholders, who are giving priority to EDP investments outside the country and who want to ensure the distribution of dividends into splits such as those they used to under the secured income system – and, in order to have these dividends and to make such investments abroad, they want to liquidate part of the EDP in Portugal. by selling dams that have the most important storage capacity, i.e. pumping dams, and which, therefore, respond more efficiently to the articulation with renewable production, are also delivering to these foreign companies this key element for the efficiency of the energy system, to the transition to renewable production and to the guarantee of security of supply, dismantling the company and further segmenting the electroproducer system. This decision also concerns us, of course, with regard to the compensation to be given to local communities, especially with regard to the rights of workers in these dams. There are more than half a hundred workers, hundreds of jobs indirectly secured by these dams and we don't know if there are guarantees. Perhaps the Member of the Socialist Party knows them, because, with the praise he has made here to Engie, perhaps, he knows things we do not know. But the workers of the dams have no guarantee from the shoppers, they have no guarantee from the local compensations that are given in terms of employment, social support, professional conversion or whatever. It is a big question mark that is before the workers and we do not have, we know no guarantee on the part of Engie. What we have before us today is not a finished fact, what we have before us is the need for a political decision by the government that prevents the dismantling of one of the other giants of the national economy, EDP, which prevents its delivery to foreign companies that will be able to make sales decisions tomorrow, for example, to Spanish companies, concentrating on Spanish capital companies strategic decisions on the course of the Portuguese rivers. We already have this problem about the Tejo, we can turn to it about the Douro and we see that there is the greatest leviance on the part of the government in the way that this problem is faced.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u57	You have to conclude, sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are facing a case with a strategic dimension, it is not a finished fact and the government can take the political decision to prevent this sale and that is what it must do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u59	Before giving the floor to the next speaker I have to point out that the election of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court is effectively suspended because we have been verifying that the existing version of the Law on Organization, Functioning and Procedure of the Constitutional Court, in Article 16 ( 3 ) of its Rules of Procedure. it states that « each Member sign with a cross the square corresponding to the list of candidates in which he votes ». Therefore, since this is not the way the ballots are configured, the election is currently suspended. We are making provision for the provision of ballot papers in accordance with this and, consequently, the honourable Members. Members who have already participated in this election will have to do their best to repeat the vote. We will continue this debate. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is under discussion today is this draft resolution of the PSD which aims, in essence, to make several recommendations to the Government, which we would say, make all the sense. There is a concern that has to do with the vehicle itself, with the Special-purpose Entity (SPV) that will be used for this same business. The PSD proposes that guarantees be safeguarded at the tax level, both for the country and for the region. This recommendation proposes that the two municipalities be involved, and there is also a concern about safeguarding these workers, which also makes sense. I would like to highlight something important and that is in this draft resolution: the appreciation of the real value of water reserves in the fulfilment of international, national and Council determinations and the existence of a proper monitoring of water quality and maintenance of the minimum flows. So here is a set of recommendations to the government that make all the sense and that the CDS accompanies, voting in favour. But it is also important to bring to this debate the position of the Communist Party itself. Still this week, in the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory we have been discussing precisely a draft resolution submitted by the CFP and it is important to clarify the following: what is at stake is not the sale of the dams, what is at stake is a sale of the EDP, the alienation of the EDP's concession assets to another company and therefore it is not the sale of the dams itself. On the other hand, in this alienation there is a concern that, indeed, the Portuguese Government should have: all commitments, all guarantees that EDP currently has and which are contractually established should be able to transit, of course, to the consortium that intends to make the acquisition, a French consortium. And what does the CFP, in this recommendation—and indeed also in the intervention we have heard here today— come to propose? The CFP recommends to the Government that it not authorise the application to divest the assets of the national electro-producer system for EDP. In other words, the PCP does not want to authorize this sale of EDP to another private. So, what does the PCP want? Does the CFP want to prevent a private business in a regulated market in an open market? Is that what the PCP wants? It would be consistent for the PCP to say the following: if the CTG (China Three Gorges), which is the biggest shareholder of the EDP, is not interested, i.e. the EDP does not want to continue to manage those dams ; then the State that assumes this and passes the state to manage the dams. But that's not what the PCP comes here to say, the PCP says these same dams should stay in the current shareholder. And the question is this: who are the current shareholders of EDP? CTG is the largest of them, a Chinese group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u61	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u62	That Chinese group wants to sell. What would be normal, in the context of the relations of the Communist International, was that the CFP itself followed that same position.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u63	Don't start talking about what you don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u64	Therefore, what the PCP announces here is a breach between the Chinese Communist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party. That is what you here are now announcing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u65	You sold that to the Chinese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u66	But now let's talk about the second shareholder. Who's EDP's second shareholder? These are the American funds, which you call « butter funds ». Therefore, what the PCP defends is that the CTG, the large Chinese group, continues to manage dams and that such American "abutre funds" continue to manage these same dams too. You understand! For one thing, you say it is the state that must be there, but the next day you want to enter into a business between private parties, defending a part of these private people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u67	Then I saw you put your foot in a green branch!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u68	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: by listening to the PCP and the Left Block about this, it seems that we are in Albania listening to a speech, indeed! The only big problem is the private, the private dad and want to nationalize everything again! The only solution they have is to nationalize, which means more taxes for taxpayers, more money to pay—they always say "we have to buy everything"! We've seen the attempt to prevent an operation in a communications group, now it's in the dams!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u70	Man, come on, comment on the ball! It's a chrome of the ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u71	The solution they have is always this: nationalize, nationalize, nationalize! That's what they know how to do, and that's what they know to present. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is clear that in a business like this... Calm down, Mrs. Member, it is far away, I can't hear it, you have to get up! Open... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mr. President, may I speak now? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u72	Mr President, your time is running out, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u73	Thank you very much. It is clear that in private business, in a regulated market, the State must require guarantees. Therefore, the arrival will be next to this project that the PSD presents today, because it guarantees that the investment, the taxes charged and the funds applied can effectively go to the regions covered and not to any other region of the country. That must be the concern of this House and not any myth about renationalizing the dams or banks or post offices or televisions, about renationalizing everything and the Portuguese are here to pay your bill, which is what they always want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u74	You're afraid to stop receiving Cofina's check!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u75	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current situation of EDP is the result of a political and strategic error of the PSD and the CDS. This initiative to sell dams is something that must be the target of our repudiation and mistrust. In my view, this calls into question national sovereignty with regard to electricity and also with regard to available water reserves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u77	Before giving the floor to Mr Adam Silva for the closure of this point, I would ask whether any parliamentary group wishes to use the time it has available. [[Pause.]] That is not the case, for the end of this debate, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD, has the floor for more than 2 minutes, in addition to the time remaining in the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress the appreciation that Parliament gives to this matter today and, in some way, the embarrassment that I feel for the NAP has not intervened on this issue. Maybe you don't care, but it's really weird. Mr President, with regard to the interventions that have been made here, I would like to make a few more contributions and present some aspects that I think are important. I think the intervention of the Portuguese Communist Party was similar to DOS Greens and the Left Block. Deep down, they're trying to stop history, as if they were trying to stop the wind with their hands. That doesn't matter. That's not possible, it's impossible. The situation is the one on the ground: EDP is a private company, this heritage is also a private company and will therefore be sold to another private company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u79	But the government may not authorize it! It's in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u80	What is important in this matter is that, in the act of this sale, justice is done with the interior of the country and with the populations of Trás-os-Montes. That's what's important. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u81	What you propose is: "No, no; it is not worth it! We will put on an ideological component, which is: ‘ Not sold and the end point. ’ What we say is, to sell, to do justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u83	That is why I very much liked the first words of our colleague of the Socialist Party, Miguel Matos, Member of Parliament for Lisbon, but it is good for him and, for me, it is a reward to know how to defend things from within the country. I was very pleased to hear that, because you were talking about the job opportunities that this sale can bring, the opportunity to channel tax revenues to this region, the commitments made here, which must be guaranteed and remain after the sale. We were delighted to hear Mr. Deputies. It is only then that you said: "But here is a problem of the law! It was delicious to do all this, but there is a problem with the law. » Mr Member, but then the State budgets do not make changes annually in the VAT code (value added tax ), in the IMI Code ( municipal property tax ), in the IMT Code ( municipal tax on onerous transfer of property), in tax codes and spills? All this is possible! Sir, where is the problem of changing the law? I mean, basically, there is no problem, especially because the law is changed every year, through the State budget. You, in fact, are a specialist in this matter and therefore you know very well that it is. [[Laughs from PS Deputies Carlos Pereira and Marina Gonçalves.]] So we were delighted to hear it, but then he said that there was a problem and that the law could not be changed. Well, Mr President, there we do not really resign ourselves and say that there is an opportunity here to do justice and to show solidarity with the interior of the country in a concrete way. And it is not worth the government to walk around the country with more or less promises made and repeats, more or less surpassed, more or less reviewed, because, when concrete questions are reached, the government, by the voice of the Socialist Party, which supports it, says: "Nothing can be done! Do not keep on seeking. ” We are very sorry, but in this matter, the transmountans will be crushed by the same injustice that has been going through them over successive decades. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this item on the agenda. of the fourth point is the joint assessment of Resolution Projects Nos 191 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the imposition of anti-abuse standards in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security, cleaning and other services, ensuring compliance with labour law and the legal regime of the transmission of establishment and 252 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that the workers be caught up in the surveillance and cleaning sector. To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the galleries of this Parliament, there are about two dozen workers in the area of surveillance and private security working on the IP ( Infrastructures of Portugal ), in the Ministry of Labour, in the Transtejo, in the City Hall of Lisbon, through private companies in this sector. Some of these workers lost rights and were left without Christmas allowance, when the PSG, Private Security, S.A. , one of the companies in this sector, took up surveillance functions in the Ministry of Labour. Others lost their jobs. We are talking about IP workers who have been in the same train station for years, for example, and who have been without their job and do not even have access to unemployment benefit at this time. We are talking about the same situation, for example, in the Transtejo. This is absolutely illegal. When a company that provides such services is changed, the position of employer is passed on to that company, that is to say, the employer is changed, but the workers have to stay in that job, with the same rights and with the recognition of their seniority. How is it possible for companies that do not comply with the law and that the State maintains contracts with these same companies for the provision of this service? How does this situation continue to be resolved? How is it that the alarm signs did not sound, when companies systematically present prices that are incompatible with respect for the law and the rights of workers? How can the defence of competition be invoked when what is being promoted is unfair competition, dumping and fraud that these companies are doing in relation to the law? Let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in recent years, a number of companies have launched chaos in this sector. We're talking about a sector with more than 40 000 people, being the state's biggest client. We are talking about tens of thousands of workers who are the first people we've been through in public services, who look forward to hospitals, employment centres, financial distributions or social security. We are talking about workers who deserve our respect and to whom the law must apply. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What the Left Block is proposing today is for Parliament to decide and adopt four urgent measures. First, the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) has to carry out its inspection actions and intelligent inspections, which have been provided for in the private security law, must be regulated. Secondly, the State must settle the contract with companies that are non-compliant. Companies that do not comply with the law may not have contracts with the State. Thirdly, the State must include in the notices of opening tenders the requirement for compliance with the legal standard for the transmission of the establishment and maintenance of the contractual rights of workers when there is a new undertaking to take up those duties. Finally, the State should include, in the tenders for these tenders for the area of surveillance and private security, a reference to minimum prices and the need for respect for workers' rights, so that these same contracts prevent dumping practices. They are just measures, they are necessary measures, they are urgent measures, which we hope will be adopted today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u86	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave a greeting to workers in the surveillance and private security sector who are attending this debate and who live every day a work reality marked by instability, uncertainty, precariousness, low wages, day-to-day abuses of their rights and great exploitation on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. The beginning of this year has already demonstrated this: surveillance workers have been confronted with signatures of new contracts, and their rights, such as those of antiquity, have been challenged and their jobs have been put at risk. The last examples that demonstrate it relate to the launching of state competitions in different areas, which, in many situations means the change of service providers, also means that they are concerned about jobs in courts, health centres and hospitals, in Transtejo and Soflusa, in social security, in ACT, in employment centres or in the railway stations of the infrastructure of Portugal, as the public has come. We are talking about thousands of workers, thousands of families and thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u88	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u89	These workers have suffered in the skin the failure to comply with labour law by employers in this sector, in particular as regards the transmission of establishment. Moreover, the latest changes made in terms of labour law, for which the CFP has contributed, have improved workers' rights in this area, but employers in the sector refuse to comply with them and apply them in many situations. The companies that have lost the competitions are attempting, by all means, to rule out workers and the companies that have won the competitions require that these workers sign new contracts and lose their rights, in particular as regards seniority. The CFP argues that workers are entitled to the transmission of establishment as provided for in Article 285. that of the Labour Code, maintaining all contractual rights acquired, in particular seniority. What is being done to many workers in the surveillance sector is the troupe of rights, in a process marked by pressures and blackmails by employers. At the same time, we must not fail to point out that there is also a fundamental problem, which relates to the generalization of the use of service providers, in particular by the State, which adds the problem of contractual values with companies in the way in which service services are renewed, in addition to the criterion chosen to be the lowest price. Without prejudice to the resolution of this fundamental problem, it is important to ensure that legislation is complied with in the context of the transmission of establishment and that the rights of workers in these sectors are properly safeguarded and defended. It is in this sense that the CFP presents this initiative, arguing that all available mechanisms are used to ensure that all workers in the process of transmission of establishment have all their rights safeguarded in the signing of contracts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u90	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u91	... but also that the Act fulfils its role as a supervisory entity — and not as a pedagogical entity — with the employers' bodies and carries out continuous supervision of the companies operating in this sector, in order to ensure that there are no occupational footings and that, when companies refuse to comply with workers' rights, they are not considered for the provision of services, opening new competitions if necessary. We also defend that the fundamental problem is solved and that a plan is drawn up that considers the integration of these workers into the State institutions. These are the contributions that the CFP leaves in this discussion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u92	Mr. Olga Silvestre will now intervene by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolutions now submitted by the Left Block and the PCP represent a handful of ears from the left to the Government. And this is because in these projects what is required is that the law be complied with, that the State does not fail the workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Committee on Labour and Social Security is holding a series of hearings in which we find that what may be at issue is the possible failure to comply with the law. Well, here the responsibility lies with the State. In other words, through the Labour Conditions Authority, the State must ensure that the laws are met and must be implacable to those who run the law. We do not forget the repeated calls of PSD attention to the need to strengthen the ACT and to make it more effective and we do not forget the repeated promises of strengthening the powers of the ACT, made by the former Minister Vieira da Silva and by Minister Ana Godinho who, of course, do not pass on promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u95	The Government and the left-wing parliamentary parties that support it, declared or shamefully, are concerned with the crushing of the rights of the workers on the street who cry out to defend it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u97	«Do what I say and do not do what I do» seems to be the motto of these parties on the left, who swear to defend the workers, but who, when they support the Executive, forget about them. It is necessary here to remember the PSD's intervention in the debate on the transmission of establishments. At that time we called attention to the hypocrisy of the left parties and to the need to ensure effective supervision by the State. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] We reiterate what we have said in the past: the important thing is not to be constantly changing the law, the important thing is to ensure its compliance. Once again we repeat that the Act, a regulatory entity to comply with labour rules, has to have the necessary conditions to ensure its important role. This, yes, is the key to ensuring a decent job and to ensure that there are no law-enforcements. The State is still failing, and we cannot accept that. It is therefore necessary for the government to move from promises to action and effectively strengthen the Act so that it can carry out its activity without any human or technical constraints. Make it clear: the PSD does not compact with any form of violation of the Labour Code and will always be in the defense and safeguard of workers' rights. The Act is responsible for monitoring, but for this it needs means, and the government and the parties that support it must ensure that it continues its mission. That's what's missing, but it's better late than ever. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, « stopped boat does not travel». So it's time to act. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u98	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation in the security sector is, in fact, worrying. However, a new situation has not come to the public with a number of reports denouncing the existence of situations of non-compliance with labour law by companies in this sector, with serious violations of workers' rights. Unfortunately, these situations are recurrent. We would like to highlight a few examples here. Thus, the workers of the PSC ( Operational Security Company ), which provides services in the courts, in the National Register of Collective Persons, in the Directorate-General for Social Integration and in the Polytechnic Institute of Lisbon and Setúbal, have their salaries delayed, which occurred several months ago. It is recalled that last year the company invoiced more than EUR 14 million in 45 contracts with public entities. The PSG itself who has won the competition to ensure the surveillance service at all railway stations between Valencia and Santa Apolónia is not recognizing the seniority rights of the supervisors who were already working at these sites, since they are not considered to apply the scheme of the transmission of company or establishment. There are about 500 jobs involved. The Ministry of Labour has launched an invitation to tender for the acquisition of security services for the supervision of the entities it protects. The company that so far provided these services to 2045, Security Company, S.A. , lost the contest for PSG, Comanesgur, Private Security S.A, and Ronsegur, Rounds and Security, Lda. About 400 workers in question have been under pressure to sign new contracts that do not safeguard previously acquired rights, particularly in the area of antiquity. This is, in our understanding, completely incomprehensible. But more: already in 2016 the Ministry of Justice launched a competition to strengthen the surveillance and security of all its bodies, which defined prices below the recommended by the Labour Conditions Authority, and the unions warned that this constituted "more a breakdown of workers' rights, more and more frequent in this sensitive sector. Do not keep on seeking. ” The situation has not changed, even. In fact, there are still cases where companies, in order to win public tenders, present prices below the recommended price, and then fail to ensure workers' rights, including the punctual payment of remuneration, setting out a clear situation of social dumping. Despite ACT alerts, low prices are becoming a rule with high losses for workers. And here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, « Caesar's wife is not enough to be serious, she must also look like him », i.e., we must begin precisely by the ministries and by the government. We cannot therefore ignore that these services are, in the vast majority of cases, being provided by public entities and that, therefore, the State should intervene either at the preventive level, ensuring that companies that win the competition are in a position to comply with the agreement, either later, ensuring that these companies do not violate the rights of workers and that they ensure, in particular, the provisions of the legislation in the event of transmission of undertakings or establishment. It should be noted that, with the contributions of the NAP, the Assembly of the Republic has recently adopted legislation to strengthen the rights of workers in these situations, but there is still much to do, in particular, with regard to strengthening the monitoring of the ACT to workplaces, as a way to ensure full respect for workers' rights. Therefore, we will be following both proposals favourably, hoping that not only the enforcement of legislation, such as the rights of workers in this vulnerable area, will be carried out. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u100	You now have the floor by the PS, Mr Fernando José, also for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party for the draft resolutions presented and which are an important contribution for this marathon, which calls us all in the search for solutions to a long-standing problem, is finally solved. Allow me, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who comply with the surveillance workers present in the galleries and in them enhance the resilience of their struggle to see recognized labour rights arising from the law, but that some, under the cloak of litigation or in improper use of the freedom of collective bargaining, try to deny them. Mrs. Olga Silvestre, the PSD is coming to talk in an earbrush. I think the honourable Member has been mistaken in the debate. We are not talking about non-compliance by the government,... [[We are, we are!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u102	...we are not talking about non-compliance by the state, we are talking about non-compliance by companies and that is where the debate should continue. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u103	These companies deny the payment of the Christmas allowance, deny the recognition of the jobs to these workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u105	... violate labour laws and the Community directive, pushing workers into precariousness and tension of conflict. It is noted that the Government of the Socialist Party, the Members of the Socialist Party, but also the whole left parliament, had the courage to face this precariousness in the previous legislature, and in dialogue to reach the desirable consensus on solutions to problems that were dragged into a government of poor memory, the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u106	Oh, of course! What about back? Is there more back there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u107	The solutions found will, of course, have to be deepened, but they reflect important steps in combating precariousness. Regularization of precarious links in the Public Administration, but also changes to labour law in terms of term contracts, as well as regulation of access to temporary work are concrete measures aimed at greater protection for workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u109	And it is in this sense that we cannot be indifferent to the draft resolutions of the Communist Party and the Block of Left, on which, in essence, we cannot fail to see ourselves. They are recommendations to the Government to curb the labour bottlenecks in the surveillance sector, imposing standards against abuse in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security companies. They are recommendations that are reflected in the Government Programme, which contains a measure which expressly provides « Penalizing companies convicted of defaults in the field of labour relations, including the introduction of weighting factors in access to public tenders, as well as those adopting practices of social dumping ». Yes, Mrs Olga Silvestre, with the Government of the Socialist Party, the boat is not stopped. We're doing more and better! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] These recommendations reflect ongoing measures such as a clause already drawn up and referred to ESPA ( Public Administration Shared Service Entity ) to be included in all public contracts, requiring compliance with this type of obligation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u110	That's not doing anything, is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u111	That is to do, it is to take concrete steps to solve the problem of these workers. It should therefore be reaffirmed that it is imperative for the Socialist Party to comply with labour law and to guarantee workers' rights in the transmission of establishment when changing the employer as a result of public tender. We must continue to make the way to combat precariousness. The Government is taking this path and, in relation to the transmission of the establishment, the draft resolutions presented here today end up being, in most of its points, already reflected in the measures of the Government. We have to do even better and better, and that's what the government is doing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u112	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u113	I'm done now, Mr. President. I repeat: we must do more and better, and that is what the government is doing, giving continuity to a path to the replacement of rights, combating precariousness and improving labour relations. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we must do even better and better, and it is in this sense that the Members of the Socialist Party are available here, and in relation to the transmission of establishment in the surveillance sector, we find, in dialogue and consensus, a solution to clarify and solve this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u114	However, I am aware that the legality of the ballot papers is already being restored and, therefore, the honourable Members. Members may already vote for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate the information that has been given recently: Members who have already voted will have to vote again for the election referred to, because now the bulletin is correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u115	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u117	Mr President, I just wanted to ask what happens to those who have already voted and have their ballot already in the ballot box. How will they withdraw that vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u118	There is no problem with that, because the ballot will be of a different colour and therefore the other ballots will not be considered. Therefore, whoever has already voted for the Constitutional Court will have to vote again and the previous votes will obviously not be considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u120	Mrs. Members, let us then resume this debate with the intervention of the CDS-PP. Mr. João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects we are discussing today, the Left Block and the PCP, bring here a relevant issue and which raises several problems. It raises problems from the point of view of labour law, as has already been announced, and it concerns the fact that private security companies are going to happen to others and that, of course, it is necessary to ensure the labour issues of the transmission of establishment. There are also issues relating to public procurement and to the fact that many of these problems originate in public tenders and in succession of companies, there is one that no longer performs the service because it has lost or failed to compete in the competition, and that actually does not comply with what is its obligation, from the point of view of labour law. There are also problems of interpretation of this labour law and there are also different solutions depending on what collective bargaining has established or has not established standards for these cases. from the point of view of the CDS, the solution to this problem is indeed the ACT to be more effective in monitoring, but that is not enough. That's not enough in any way! It is necessary to create a concrete solution for some of the problems that do not have to do with supervision, but that have to do with the interpretation that is made of the law by each of the companies in question. For us, there is another problem that has to do with the guarantees that the State has to ensure in the procurement manuals for public tenders, so that they cannot compete or not win these competitions for which the first of all the priorities for the performance of the contract is not to comply with what, from our point of view, they have to comply with labour legislation. This also concerns, as has already been said, with a question of dumping which is made because a company competing with a public tender with a view to not complying with a legal obligation, of course that may present a price lower than a company applying for the same public tender in the logical perspective of fulfilling the legal obligations. Therefore, from our point of view, the State must be the first to ensure that this dumping does not exist in public tenders. On the other hand, this issue raises another problem that extravagants labour issues, which has to do with regulating the exercise of private security. It is essential to ensure, not only in labour but also in others, that those who in Portugal perform this kind of private security economic activity ensure all the suitability and transparency in their activity so that supervision is possible. Nor is it in any way acceptable for companies in the private security sector to ensure that they are fit, that they respect their workers and that they perform their duties transparently to compete with others who not only do not have that suitability as they do not respect workers and have very questionable practices, from the point of view of legality, which are entirely unacceptable practices in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u122	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u123	Mr. President and Mr. Members: First of all, I want to greet the private surveillance professionals who are in the galleries today, men and women who, in fact, together with the police forces, are the most mistreated in Portugal, with hours, working conditions and career progressions that would not remind anyone. The arrival will therefore accompany the draft resolutions of the Left Block and of the CFP on this matter, which we consider to be extremely relevant. We have companies to make tenders, in fact, under conditions under which the illegality of any minimum of supervision would allow us to detect immediately, we have remuneration conditions for these professionals who shame any country in Europe and we still demand them more and more. That is why this is a pressing matter and it is a matter that deserves our follow-up. I have now heard Mr Fernando José with great interest when he said that the PS has nothing to do with this and that this is a matter of business, it is a private matter. Mr Deputy, public tenders, in some way, will always have to do with the government, and I remind you that in 2017 your Minister of Internal Administration - and you have to remember - said: "Now that we are going to solve the problem, there comes more scrutiny. Do not keep on seeking. ” Now, if we are saying today that the main problem is supervision, then the PS cannot say that it has no role or problem here. But Mr Fernando José is right about one thing: he's right when he said that with the PS the boat doesn't stop. You're right, sir! With the PS the boat sinks at once!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u124	Let us now move on to the second speeches of the parliamentary groups that still have time. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u125	Mr President, I believe that after this discussion it is also clear that the initiative presented by the CFP here will have the conditions to be approved and to contribute to solving the problems that persist in this sector of private surveillance and security. But now, Mrs PSD, I cannot but tell you, after your intervention, that the failure to comply with the labour rights of workers is the responsibility of the companies that want to rule out these workers and also of the other companies that do not want to take on the rights and seniority of these workers. Mrs Deputy, on the strengthening of professionals for the act, where was the PSD in the State Budget for 2020... [[Protests by PSD Members Lina Lopes and Maria Gabriela Fonseca.]] ... when the CFP presented this proposal, which, with your vote, did the PSD prevent it from being approved in the State budget? Madam Member, the words here do not match everything with the PSD's action on this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, we are going to end this debate by giving the floor to Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the Parliamentary Labour Commission is currently holding a series of hearings to give voice to these workers and to the problems they feel and also to hear the Working Conditions Authority and the guardianship is because the Left Block has made this proposal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u129	... and also, of course, because the Commission welcomed it. in these hearings we have all verified the appearance of some employers who have come here to tell us - in our face, that they are not interested in complying with the law - indeed, the emergence of some employers and some companies who have made a clause in a collective contract that is fair and explicit in order to circumvent the law and not to respect the rights that they must respect, these workers, the recognition of their jobs, the maintenance of their jobs and their rights of antiquity. The honourable Member spoke of the Working Conditions Authority and we all agree that the Working Conditions Authority must have more means and must monitor. But that's not all. I have with me a document from the Working Conditions Authority that did an inspection action with these companies and concluded that certain issues were not being respected. The problem is that the Working Conditions Authority, as we all know, does not have executive power, i.e. inspections by the Working Conditions Authority are not executive, and that is why we say, Mrs and Mrs. Members, that there is an action that can and should be done up to this monitoring, which is the action of the State. In fact, the State is the largest customer of these companies and that is why the State has an absolutely central role in regulating this sector. It is the guardianship which, in each body and in each tendering procedure, must lay down in the notices of tenders and order books the rules to prevent companies presenting prices under the law, which gain companies that are clearly offenders, that companies that violate the law and do not respect the rights of such workers. We cannot accept that the State continues to hire companies that are run, as we have seen, by genuine cowboys who think that there is no law in Portugal and that they think that they choose the workers who stay and those who are placed on the street. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u130	This can't be! This is unacceptable! Then, in view of this situation, the Government must intervene, Mr Socialist Party Member, to resolve the problem. In fact, you can start by forcing PSG-Private Security, S.A. giving a job to the workers who are here today in the galleries, who have to be placed in their jobs. The Minister of Infrastructure may begin by making this requirement to the PSG, so that these workers are relocated to their jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u131	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u132	I conclude by saying the following: let us also make the legislative clarifications, the Left Block is available for this, and let us start today — I think this is very important — by giving a necessary and concrete signal, that is, by approving these initiatives that we have tabled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u133	We therefore close this item on the agenda. We will move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which includes the joint assessment of the Lein. 6 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code by establishing a regime for the impenetrability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages and 210 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the impermissibility of permanent housing property ( amends the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ). To present the PCP bill, Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of Portuguese people who continue to lose their homes, especially as a result of the transfer of loans from banks to real estate and in other similar circumstances, remains a problem in Portuguese society and determines that tens and dozens of families, each month, will see their housing compromised due to lack of guarantee and defense of their right to housing. This happens despite several discussions that have been held over the years in the Assembly of the Republic and some measures that, including allowing these situations not to occur, especially when, in 2016, a law was passed here that prevented the pen hour of own and permanent housing by the Finance. The bill that the CFP brings today to the Assembly of the Republic is not only about preventing the collapse of the house of residence of the family, of the home itself and permanent of those executed in situations of insufficiency of incomes that allow to cope with its survival in some way, approaching other debt situations what is already happening today for debts in relation to finance, but it is also a project that seeks to deepen measures to guarantee protection of the right to housing in other circumstances in which it may be at risk. We presented this project, bearing in mind, of course, some of the most recent amendments to the law, in particular those made in 2019, which, while taking some steps to defend the right to housing, did not fully ensure the measures that were necessary to defend the right to housing. We present this bill considering the various values in comparison but clearly making the option to defend housing and the right to housing. In short, what are the measures proposed by the CFP? First of all, that the house that you've already lost everything else can't be filled up. Those who no longer have a job, who no longer have incomes that can guarantee their own survival must be defended in relation to the possibility of losing their housing, because, of course, these are people who, by losing their housing because they do not have incomes, will have difficulty finding a housing solution and the law can allow this protection of housing in situations where they cannot provide subsistence. Secondly, in situations where the lack of means to ensure survival is not concerned, we point out not to the prohibition of the penatory or the execution of the mortgage on the dwelling house but to the limitation of the possibility of a penor or execution of the mortgage and the limitation in cases where, with no other incomes that may be weighed, the debt stems from the lack of payment of the credit for the purchase of the housing. Where there are other incomes and other ways of paying the debt, the mechanism we propose is that the housing house cannot be remunerated or cannot be executed if those incomes allow, within the time set for the loan of the housing, two-thirds of the debt value to be paid. Of course, this should be accompanied by measures which guarantee the creditor itself the possibility of executing the other third after the deadline for the housing credit. Finally, we also present measures to limit the sale of buildings. There are hundreds and hundreds of examples that have come over the years to the PCP Parliamentary Group of banks that have run mortgages, that have put people's house on sale and eventually sold them at lower prices than the credits they were implementing. It is unacceptable for banks to withdraw a house where a family lives in the name of a debt that then completely forgets, selling the house for half of the value, or less, of what it was in debt. The possibility of introducing the defence of housing also when it is at issue, already at the final stage of the process, the sale of housing is one of the elements that is also contained in our bill. We hope to be accompanied by the other parliamentary groups so that this debate can result in a concrete and effective response to the protection of housing and the right to housing of those who have their housing at risk. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u135	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2016, the increased protection to permanent own housing has been recognized by law and the sale of housing has ceased to be possible for the execution of tax debts to the Tax Authority. In 2019, through the Housing Bases Act, this recognition was strengthened, particularly in Article 10. the, which enshrines the right to the protection of permanent own housing. Even with all these reinforcements, there are still threats to housing stability. We are talking about situations of debt due to consumer credits and which are, in most cases, deeply inadequate. DECO(Consumer Defense) itself alerts to this situation, emphasizes the disproportion between the amount of debt and the capital value and even more the amount of the penorated property - and this may affect 347 000 families, according to Banco de Portugal - and considers that the protection enshrined in 2016 should be extended. Well, the Left Block also understands that. It would have been with this in mind that the Government once again recognized the need for additional protection, which gave rise to Law No 117 / 2019, in which the Government proposes that, for debts up to €10,000, a restructuring be made within a maximum period of 30 months. This solution may be useful for some situations but still does not respond to the disproportionateness of this type of penhoras. Otherwise, let's see: a person who earns the minimum order will hardly manage, on the limit, to face an increase of payment of €330 per month, when he no longer has other incomes that can be weighed. in these cases, we witness the execution of a housing with a capital and market value of more than 70 000 euros — often much higher! — to pay debts up to EUR 10 000, no longer to mention that most of the time the provision of housing is regularized. People are thus left with no income and no home. It's unfair and obviously disproportionate. The family home remains unprotected and most of the time in end-of-line situations. This problem is now exacerbated by the crisis in housing rental and the lack of public housing. To ensure that the house itself and permanent with a capital value of less than EUR 250 000 cannot be offset by debts other than those resulting from the housing mortgage, in addition to fair, is in itself a housing policy. It is ensured that a problem is stagnated which does not respect the graduation of rights provided for in the Constitution itself, which is densified in the Housing Basics Act which has been approved here and which, Mr President, has been approved. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't stay in the drawer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u137	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Letting those who do not comply is encouraging breach of contracts, it is encouraging irresponsibility and insecurity of legal business. In the recent past, Parliament has passed a law which prevents the Tributary Authority from selling the proper and permanent housing of the executed. You know what the outcome was, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It was a confusion in the courts, with contradictory decisions about the possibility of the common creditor to regret and sell these dwellings in the context of tax executions. In 2019, on a proposal from the CFP, greater protection was given to the debtor's housing and these recent changes came into force for days. Mrs. Members, so far it has been possible to go, but more than this, that is to say, to prevent the creditor from recovering his injury when the executed has a property to pay for, it seems to us totally unbalanced and unjustified. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u139	It can be seen that, for the PCP, if the creditor is a bank entity that has financed the purchase of the property can already, with some exceptions, regret and sell the debtor's housing, but the common creditor cannot. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u140	Notice: a worker who tries to collect his credit because the employer did not pay the salary on time, as he competes, is prevented from doing so when the boss only has his home to pay for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u142	It was just what was missing, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It was just what we needed to allow these barbarities and contribute so that those who should not pay to whom they owe. We are always on the side of those who want to ensure the protection of their own and permanent housing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u143	That's a bit contradictory to everything I said before, Mrs. Depute!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u144	...as we are always in defense of those who legitimately intend to collect their credits. One to the detriment of the other is not, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] This is how the PSD stands in this Parliament, as in the past, in defense of balanced and proportionate solutions. The solutions advocated by such PCP and Left Block bills are all but this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u145	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this House, housing has been recognized as the first right and it is, in fact, necessary to do everything in order for it to be in practice. We all know how important housing is in a person's life, so that we build our life, and how important it is to have a house to return to at the end of the day. With this concern, as part of the State budget, the NAP has introduced a proposal for housing first, ensuring EUR 7 million in the State budget to ensure this response, which is fundamental in the lives of many people who do not have housing. We understand that both the proposals under consideration, the CFP and the Left Block, have concerns that we accompany, in addition to the merit of bringing this matter to debate. from the proposal of the Block of Left is to highlight the limit established for dwellings, creating a kind of buffer amounting to 250 000 euros, of real estate, which seems to us to be positive. the proposal of the PCP is to highlight the search for a solution that aims to guarantee people who, for various reasons, cannot afford to pay their homes the possibility of doing so as not to lose their housing, which is also fundamental to the NAP, without excusing them the responsibility to pay their debts. We understand that housing is a design that should mobilize everyone here and we should reflect on what will happen to these people if they actually lose a very fundamental good as housing. What's going to happen? Will they enter the municipal housing lists? Will they stand between the sword and the wall, subject to the pressure of the real estate funds? The NAP is therefore available to accompany these proposals and for a more in-depth debate on them, in the field of expertise, since, and I cannot leave the reference, the bank has benefited successively. It is necessary to find a balance in this balance, also protecting people. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u147	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the proposers, the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, for bringing in two bills that deal with a sensitive matter, of obvious social relevance, to which the Socialist Party is not insensitive, as it has already demonstrated in this House and in the Government, for the impact it can have on the lives of families. In the last Parliament, this question was called not only by the ladies and gentlemen. Members as well as the Government of the Socialist Party. Since 2016, significant steps have been taken in the approach to this problem from the bills presented by Mrs and Mrs. Members and a proposal for a law submitted by the Government. In addition, in 2019, these initiatives culminated in the unanimous approval of Law No 117 / 2019, which established a regime for the impermissibility of permanent housing itself and set restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages. It has also been referred to the Housing Bases Act, which is very important and has also assumed this need for the protection of the home itself. In any case, in order to better frame the analysis of this matter, I think it will be important to remind ourselves that the first time that it was brought to this House the country experienced a very different situation from the one that lives today, with dramatic cuts in family income, with an exponential increase in unemployment, with measures that the only thing they managed to do was to aggravate unemployment and poverty. It is true that some measures were taken between 2012 and 2014, but they were very shy measures, which did not solve the problem. Today, the situation is different in two planes. It is different because, throughout the last legislature, income and employment have been recovered, which puts us today on a very different footing, but it is also different from the result of the legislation that has been adopted. What we note from official data is that there is a decrease in the executions of the number of penhoras, of 36 % in 2017 and of 23 % in 2018, and now the real estate represents only 3% of the marked penhoras, which is in line with what the law determines in the selection of the goods that are given to the execution. Therefore, what these initiatives call us is to ask whether the impact that the PCP and the Left Block intend to cause in the legal order—which, necessarily, will also cause access to credit and its cost, especially those with lower incomes—and the compression they intend to introduce to the rights of creditors, which, in fact, are not only banking institutions, is proportional to the situation we are living today. We also ask whether it is possible to make such an assessment when the amendments to the law have just entered into force on 1 January. Our position is that at the moment it has not taken enough time to assess whether the solutions adopted are adequate and sufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u149	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u150	I conclude, Mr. President. We believe that the work now to be done is that of this evaluation, and the Socialist Party and the Government will certainly be able to interpret the results of this evaluation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u151	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u152	Mr President, the indebtedness of families is not the result of irresponsibility, it is the result of difficulties and, in most cases, these difficulties are also related to poor ordination and labour instability because there is no exhaustive investment by the State in social protection needs. These two legislative initiatives are therefore of the most important for greater social justice, precisely because the right to housing is not deplorable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u153	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u154	Mr President, the proposals brought to us by the Communist Party and the Left Block have as their first difficulty to realize that the effects of the previous law are still coming into force, as noted. Therefore, it is to put a law on another law without yet understanding whether the effects of the last legislative amendment have been sufficient or not. A law that limits the rights of creditors and a law that limits the rights of those who, beyond the banks, are creditors is always, necessarily, exceptional. What the proposals of the Communist Party and the Left Block bring us is the creation of a kind of premium scheme for non-compliance, in which those who do not yet have the benefit of never being able to see, under any circumstances, except with a few exceptions, their house which is damaged. It is important to realize that in the projects presented here are tax executions, i.e. executions carried out by the Tax Authority, which represents the Portuguese tax system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u155	That's already in the law! First, you better go read the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u156	Now, we want to extend this to the same system is what we also have in public housing, a sort of "compliant or not, we cannot do anything" and we will continue in exactly the same situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u157	But what is the position of the Reach on this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u158	It is very easy to say « public housing for everyone, we are here to continue paying for it». [[BE's protests.]] We have today in Portugal municipal chambers where no income has been paid for 35 years. I repeat, 35 years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u159	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u160	What cameras?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u161	Loues's, for example. Do you want me to give you examples? I have several, where Mercedes is at the door but no income is paid. Do you know who that is? It is a shame for all those who pay taxes in Portugal and who have to support it. That's it! [[BE's protests.]] What you want to bring here is a system in which those who do not meet are benefited and those who do have no benefit for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u162	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a completely unbalanced norm, which the Arrival expects it to have no approval in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u164	Always against the poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u165	Always against the right to have a life!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u166	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On these projects there are some concepts that must be specified and the first is that the right to housing is a fundamental right, no doubt, but it is up to the State to ensure that right, neither the creditors nor the private to ensure that right. It is not surprising that the PCP and the Left Block find it perfectly natural that the State does not ensure this right, but then they want them to be private, even more creditors, which, contrary to what could often be understood from this debate, may be banks but may also be, for example, workers or small entrepreneurs, who will simply remain with the crates and will have no way of getting rid of them. As they will have no way of knowing, when they lend that money or when they give credit, if the only good of that person is a permanent home or is not, and even if they could guard it, there may be changes over time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to the State to ensure the right to housing, it is not for the creditors, and it is above all disproportionate to create a regime in which those who comply and those who do not have exactly the same treatment. Have you thought about what you think this will be about non-compliance? That is, if people know that it is not pure and simply possible to have penoras, will compliance continue to be the same? I have a lot and a lot of doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u168	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u169	What these projects want to guard — it is good to say — is not the right to housing, because it is guarded in another way, is before the new right they are dedicating to owning their dwelling even if this is done at the cost of default and simply not paying debts. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the opinion of the Advocates' Order.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u170	It was soon to choose the best!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u171	"In fact, to be approved, this proposal would conduct an unfair, unjustifiable and illegitimate deprotection of the executors. For example: « everything seen, we understand that our opinion could be nothing other than rejection of this proposal and all the legislative amendments that this alvitra has made». It is therefore totally unfavourable to the approval of this law. It says the Order of Applicants and Implementing Agents that « these solutions demand increased weighting in order to find a more balanced response to any diverse interests in the presence of them ». And the Public Prosecutor says: « there are several rules which are intended to add that they lack, in our view, due systematic and constitutional weighting».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u172	About one of the things! Have the honesty to say it's about one of the things!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u173	These opinions are unanimous in criticism of projects. And why? Because these projects are absolutely disproportionate and are, above all, deeply unjust in wanting to treat exactly the same way as those who do and those who do not, and if they want to be private, and not the State, to ensure the right to housing or this right innovator, the right to be the owner of their own housing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u174	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further entries, I believe that we can turn to the intervention to close this debate. Mr João Oliveira has the floor by the PCP, which, as you know, has two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: No one here in this plenary ignores the way banks throw on people the mirror possibilities of having access to credit to housing. And also, in this plenary, no one is unaware of the circumstances in which people actually see the roof of the house falling upon them when suddenly they can no longer pay the credit to the house and they are simply disposed of from their homes so that banks can do with the buildings what they understand, or sell it to others for 10 % of the value they were in debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u177	If you and the ladies. Members who today will vote on this project will understand that this is a fair situation and that the bank should be able to continue to do what it understands with people's homes, so they will reject the CFP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u178	The project is not just that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u179	Whoever has the minimum social consciousness, social concern with the housing of people will do exactly the opposite and will approve the project that the PCP brought to the discussion today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u181	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is truly remarkable, when there is a bill presented to defend a right, which is a constitutionally enshrined right, that is housing, and when the defense of that right requires some courage to face the interests of the large economic groups, particularly those of the bank, which, of the 230 Members in the Assembly of the Republic, which most firmly assumes the position of defense of the bank is Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]] [[CH protests.]] Mr. André Ventura, he set 1001 pretexts for hiding this, but what he did today, in this plenary, was the most incarnated defense I saw here of the position of the bank and the possibility that the bank has at its disposal simply to destroy the life of a family in the name of the satisfaction of a credit that truly does not want to fulfill. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u182	Don't let the house go!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u183	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of letting anyone who does not want to pay their debts, it is a matter of preventing the loss of housing, finding other solutions that can be found to pay the debts. [[CH protests.]] Mr. PSD Member, it is not a matter of stopping paying just because you have a property. It is a property that is the home of families, and a property that is the home of families deserves special protection. Today we are making this discussion in Portugal, in this terms, as if this were an absolutely innovative matter, but I would suggest to the ladies and gentlemen. Members reading the Technical Note, prepared by the Offices of the Assembly of the Republic, on the proposal of the CFP and discover—see there! — in Spain there is a solution for the protection of the housing of families very close to the one proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u184	And Albania too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u185	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we passed here in 2016 a law that prevents the finances from undermining the housing of families. The PSD and the CDS were against this proposal, we know, because there is nothing to expect who always stands by who seeks to liquidate the right to housing families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u187	That's conversation! [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u188	But we discussed and approved a law that prevents the finances from aggravating the housing of families. Why can’t this happen in relation to other believers? Why can’t you find other ways of paying the debt without being the loss of family housing? We know why, ladies and gentlemen. Members : it is because they want to protect, at whatever cost, the interests of the economic groups, particularly those of the bank, or that this must mean the sacrifice of the housing of families. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] from the PCP side, we will take the opposite position to that, i.e. the defense of the Constitution, of the right to housing that is contained in the Constitution, blocking this battle with the requirement that it put at every moment. [[Congratulations from the PCP and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u189	We will now move to the sixth point of the order of business, which consists in the assessment of the Draft Resolution No. 17 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a revolution in vocational training to adapt to new times. To present this project, Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Vocational training should be a priority in public policies in Portugal and that is why the CDS today brings this draft resolution. We understand that vocational training must be a priority from the social point of view, from the entrepreneurship point of view and from the competitiveness of our economy. Social priority has to do with the effect that vocational training has on the qualification of our workers and the effect that it has on their personal lives. In order for the social elevator to function in Portugal, so that those who were born under a certain condition can aim to improve their condition, improve the condition of their children, we understand that it is essential that vocational training works and that the acquisition of skills can be permanent throughout life and can have this effect of increasing the quality of life and the conditions of each person. It is also important to value the business component and to realize that, if there are often a lack of professionals in certain areas, it is clear that one of the reasons for this to happen is the fact that vocational training does not work as it should in Portugal. On the other hand, we also know that, especially in the exporting sectors, often, there are companies that do not accept orders, which cannot accept orders, because they do not have the capacity to produce what could be bought in Portugal and which is no longer because we do not, from the human point of view, have that productive capacity. Then, from the point of view of the competitiveness of our economy, we know that we have serious problems with regard to the capitalisation of our companies and our whole economy. If there is anything we can do, it is somehow to compensate for this deficiency with the appreciation of the human factor, with the appreciation of the training of our workers and with the added value that this brings to our products. We have great challenges to face, such as digital transition, and we cannot ignore the importance of vocational training in this area too. Knowing all this, why do we bring this issue? Because in recent years, from 2016 to last year, more than EUR 2000 million has been put to work in vocational training. Throughout the past legislation, we have warned that the State is captivating, withholding and trapping essential funds for vocational training and thus harming workers, harming businesses and limiting the competitiveness of our economy. That is why, with this draft resolution, we are bringing 10 measures that we consider to be fundamental to valuing vocational training. The first is to guide this vocational training to vocational skills and employment. With all the respect that we have, of course, due to academic valorisation, vocational training must prioritize these professional competences and the labour market. Then, we intend to prevent funds for vocational training from being diverted, especially to the education sector, where the State does not invest as it should invest, seeking to compensate for this lack of investment by withholding part of the funds for vocational training.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u192	We propose to update the national catalogue of qualifications, in dialogue with the social partners; create a digital route for a training plan for the challenge of the digital economy; reformulate the appreciation of training centres; also value the best-evaluated centres and courses, enhancing the supply that already exists and that effectively has greater demand and quality. We also want vocational training to have greater freedom of choice for those who want to do it, whether the freedom of choice of companies or, above all, the freedom of choice of workers, while also valuing the hiring of professionals of vocational training, especially in areas such as ICT (information and communication technologies) or social and cultural areas. As we said at the outset, Mr President, to conclude, what we want with this draft resolution is to bring to the priority of public policies vocational training, to value its social component, to value what vocational training can do for each worker, to value what it can do for our companies and, above all, to what it can do for the competitiveness of the national economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u193	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, we all agree on the importance of vocational training and the need to respond to the challenges of the digital economy. However, I would like to talk about this CDS project, noting that, in its own explanatory statement, there is a disregard for those who do vocational training today, because, in our view and for our sensitivity, some passages are almost offensive to the workers of vocational training. What does the CDS propose in this project? First, it proposes a total instrumentalization of training by the pure short-term interests of companies, which, in practice, eventually reproduces the market that exists, with its characteristics and, now, with its defects, evacuating from vocational training the fundamental design of transforming the productive fabric, cheap work patterns, dequalified work, which can only be done with strategic decisions that are public, of the State, and with the participation of workers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u195	Oh! It's exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u196	Secondly, what the CDS proposes, in practice, is to subaltern the dimension of recognition and validation of competences which is today a fundamental instrument of justice for workers who have learned so much from their experience, with their practice, and who have the right to a degree of equivalence. Thirdly, the CDS proposes, in practice, to exclude from training the skills unwanted by the employers, those which are not immediately profitable in the short term. Fourthly, it proposes that the principle of trade competition be introduced between the training offer as the main regulatory principle, rather than a logic of public policy and objectives based on an economic and social development strategy resulting from a democratic decision and from the promotion of decent work. Fifthly, still, what the CDS project proposes, in practice, is to replace the public policy of vocational training...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u197	But what public policy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u198	... by training cheques, to channel the resources that today go to public training policy, to finance companies and to a private market in vocational training, dominated and hegemonized by companies. Clearly, the vision of the Left Block is at the forefront of this orientation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u199	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u200	I would like to finish with a note: it shocks us, although I do not admire us, that there is not in the CDS project, nor has there been in Mr. João Almeida's intervention, a single word for the workers of vocational training.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u201	By the way, there's even been!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u202	I was distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u203	The Left Block has been fighting, for decades,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u204	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u205	For more than a decade the Left Block has been fighting against the generalization of false green receipts at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( IEFP ). We are fighting for the regularization of precarious workers, we have approved here the PREVPAP (An extraordinary Regularization Program of the Precincts in Public Administration), with the opposition of the CDS and PSD, and we are beating us - so that the IEFP workers can have their contract and that there is no one left behind, so that all those workers and trainers who had a positive opinion stop working with false green receipts. This, yes, Mr. Members, that is to say, it could be a way of starting to dignify vocational training, starting by valuing and recognizing the right to work conditions of workers who make this vocational training happen. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u206	For an intervention, Mrs Ofélia Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lack of qualifications of the population is not a problem of the past, it is a problem that remains very present today, and so perhaps the most structural and strategic challenge for the future of the country. That said, in order to recover the delay in relation to the most developed countries, it is essential to ensure training responses tailored to the needs of not only people but also companies. In addition, investing in vocational training is to ensure employability, reducing unemployment, combating social exclusion and promoting equal opportunities. More than that, we understand that this investment is fundamental to ensuring the innovation, productivity and competitiveness of the Portuguese economy. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be deceived! In order to achieve this desire, it is necessary to interpret the signs of the « new times », and this implies ensuring agile and flexible responses, aligned with the pace of changes imposed by the dynamics of the global market, automation and digital economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u209	Today, we clearly lack the vocational training policies developed by the IEFP. To insist on de-investment in vocational training, as has been done by the socialist governments, is to compromise the future. It is to compromise the future, because we are condemning companies to the unsuccessful search for the workers they need. It is to compromise the future, because we are condemning workers not to find jobs because they do not have the skills that the market requires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u210	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u211	In fact, after four years of socialist governance, the balance sheet of the outcome of vocational training policies is manifestly negative. And that is proof of the lack of growth in the number of training actions directed at the assets employed. This situation is, in fact, incomprehensible in a context where the supply and demand for training action directed at the assets employed should have high levels. We therefore have a clear need to reshape vocational training policy in order to adapt it to new needs, because only in this way do we boost employment, productivity, better wages and a competitive economy, capable of improving the standard of living of citizens. If this is not the case, it is of no use for the Government to recognize the importance of innovating and investing in research and development, it is of no benefit for the Government to establish the digital economy as a priority. That's not enough, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the Government has to ensure adequate vocational training for new needs and challenges, in particular the digital training of human resources. Indeed, the state in which the business fabric is found is not at all imputable to the « weakest quality of its management », by the entrepreneurs, as Minister Santos Silva said. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u212	This responsibility is indeed for political decision-makers, who do not promote vocational training policies that are appropriate to new times. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u213	Mrs Cristina Moreira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u214	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft resolution of the CDS-PP is not understandable in either form or content. Training is a priority area of this and the former government and the idea that the government has abandoned training is false. The proposal points to measures which are already being implemented, such as the numerous measures to increase digital skills or the active measures of the Government, such as those aimed at bringing people closer to employment. Worse: the proposal is detrimental to important educational policies, such as double certification, which, for us, the Socialist Party, is very important, because it simultaneously allows the vocational training of young people and adults but also completes it of their school course and thus contributes to the increase in the levels of education of the Portuguese population, without losing the central focus of preparation for the exercise of a profession. Yes, it is important to learn to do, but it is also important to learn to be. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] It is in this sense that I want to highlight the promotion of « decent work », through the Qualifica Programme, which has about EUR 752 million, which represents an increase of EUR 60 million in relation to the State budget for 2019, with regard to employment policies. In this way, 50 new Qualification Centres will be created, as well as new programs, such as Social Qualification and Complete Resources, among others. With regard to the National Qualifications Catalogue, which was so spoken, it incorporated 315 qualifications in 43 areas of education and training in 2019, and, Mr, is in constant updating and renewal, through the cooperative work of a very large set of actors, which includes representatives of the business and trade union fabric. More: every year, all schools in our country, with the inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas—I don't know if this is known, Mr. João Piinho de Almeida —, give body to SANQ, which is the System of Anticipation of Qualification Needs, which defines and guides the regulation of the training supply network. As far as employment policies are concerned, I remind you, Mr, that vocational training rose from 7, 4 % among the unemployed registered in February 2016, to 16, 5 % in March 2019. Today, one in four registered unemployed is covered by the increase in their employability. Thus, and to conclude, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, the CDS, to forget what it did to the training of young people and adults, while it was government, when it closed the majority of the New Opportunities Centres, now comes with a legislative proposal to present an empty text of content, where the concern is to create a 'training check', in a hurry using public money, to train in private centres, without any control, i.e. privatize training. The Socialist Party supports the government in the strategy it is developing with all partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u215	We weren't even expecting that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u216	... in measures such as the evaluation of the entire training system in our country and the promotion, within the framework of the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, of a strategic agreement on vocational training and lifelong learning. This, Mr President, is the opposite of what the PSD and CDS government have done, which at other times camouflaged unemployment numbers with useless and avulge training.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u217	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u218	I'm done now, Mr. President. Training throughout the lives of young people and adults, in order to increase the real and fair employability, this is the formation of new times, which brings economic and social development to the territories, sets the population and increases the levels of personal achievement of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u219	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the CDS for bringing this topic up and we want to say that, when we read on this proposal the expression « revolution», we have been somewhat hopeful about solutions to the problems that vocational training is currently living in Portugal, but it seems to us that there is a mix of different aspects here that we need to clarify. I tell you from now on, Mr João Almeida, that we have several doubts about this project, the first of which has to do with the following: is this professional education defended in the CDS project from what age? Is he a school age? Is it even 25 years old? Is it a lifetime? Is it in education after basic education? Is it in training after compulsory education? There are some aspects here which, in our understanding, are, in fact, urgent to explain. I would also like to say that there is, in Portugal, and we cannot but bring to this debate an idea of facilitating what is vocational education and training and that this idea derives from political decisions that have been taken and that are still being taken. This aspect cannot, however, be neglected and this scenario clearly needs to be reversed. In the understanding of the NAP, vocational education and training must respond to the specific needs and possibilities of individuals and concrete institutions. Vocational education and training have more than 30 years of successive governments of different political orientations in Portugal, but it is a project that remains. This is clearly the good part, but we cannot forget the experimentalism that has been done in this matter. We know that in 1986 Portugal had just joined the European Union, more resources were available for professional qualification, economic growth and social development emerged as promises. In 1986, following the Basic Law of the Education System, it became clear that it was essential, in the name of equity, equal opportunities and justice, to diversify the educational and training opportunities of young people after the conclusion of the 9th. year. There is still much to do in matters of vocational education and training, from the outset, to listen to those who are the main protagonists, whether they are young or adults in the context of training, including schools, businesses, all those involved in this area. Recently, we visited the Arc Major, in the district of Porto, which is an example of a response with pedagogical innovation in this matter, and what we verified there goes to the meeting of what the NAP proposed at the headquarters of State Budget, which was a reinforcement for projects involving young NEET(Not in Education, Employer Training), which, unfortunately, was not welcomed. We cannot also forget the role and importance of trainers, nor can we forget what is currently the reality of our young people in Portugal at the level of vocational training. It is essential that schools connect more to each other, it is necessary to review the network of offers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u221	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u222	... ending this separation between the IEFP and the Ministry of Education. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the NAP considers a wider debate on this issue necessary and is willing to abstain from voting on this CDS project. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u223	The next item is Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, it is important to begin by saying that vocational training is a right — it is a right of workers — and it is a responsibility and obligation of employers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u226	The CDS, in the project that brings us here, mixes, and even ends up confusing, vocational training and vocational education, which, in fact, are completely different areas. And, yes, on vocational education, the CFP understands, defends and has proposed that public schools should have all human, material and financial means, including through the State budget, as well as the equipment that guarantee vocational education, valuing the public vocational education that is taught in public schools in our country. The CDS speaks, in this project, of a professional conversion to the digital economy. Mrs. Members, let us talk about technological modernisation, of digital adaptation, but put at the service of improving working conditions, including the reduction of working hours, and not, as is often used, as a pretext for the destruction of businesses and productive sectors to then impose the forced conversion of these workers into labor of the tertiary sector or of the so-called 'digital economy'. The CDS speaks of the formation of qualified human resources that the exporting industry needs today, when the fundamental question is the training of the worker in individual terms and the collective development needs of the country from an economic and social point of view, which is far from being exhausted or settled in the exporting industry. We reject the creation of rankings proposed by the CDS, cheque-training or proposals that mean using public resources for solutions tailored to employers, particularly large groups, while workers are not guaranteed more comprehensive training. It also agrees that the CDS should clarify in this debate what it intends to say with « a process of recruiting and selecting more demanding trainers, particularly in the field of ICT and the socio-cultural area ». What matters is whether the trainers are bad and what the CDS intends to say with « a more demanding process ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The direct to vocational training is a conquest of workers. It is even translated into law, but it is also furnished with the reality of workers. With the approval and entry into force of the Labour Code in 2009, the standards of vocational training were changed to worse. If it is true that in the last legislation, with the proposal of the CFP, of an increase to a minimum of 40 hours a year of vocational training, there has been an advance, we also know that there are legislative improvements that need to be made, as well as improving supervision, with a view to the effective realization of the right of workers to vocational training. The CFP will always intervene on this subject, with vocational training as the right of the worker as a background, defending the recognition of lifelong learning, with effects on wages and also on workers' incomes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u227	It is the time of Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira who is not registered for an intervention. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few months ago, I said that politics without love was trade and I think the CDS is exactly the greatest example of this way of doing politics. This legislative initiative shows an absolutely commercial and instrumental view of vocational training — it is an absolutely instrumental view of work and workers. And it shows especially this, and irony is this: a love that is completely nonexistent by the workers, when what is at stake is an overwhelming passion for companies, patronage and the market. I would like to remind you of this: an important view that adapts to the new times, and out there, is not an observation that relativizes any type of training, whether it is academic, whether it is professional.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u229	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u230	I also point out that what we would really be interested in here was that there was a real defense of the workers, and that, unfortunately, there is no.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u231	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u232	Of course, I will vote strongly against this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u233	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin by saying that I will defend some ideas of the project under discussion and, Madam Member, I must say that I have a lot of love to give, no doubt about that. I have a lot of love to give — the poorest, the richest, the workers, the bosses, all. All of you! I like everyone the same way and I have a huge heart for everyone. I don't think love has much to do with this. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Love is neither right nor left, Your Honor. Love is of all and we are all involved in political action. That is a challenge and the honourable Member should also know. At least, it has love to give to everyone and it will separate that love from everyone as well. PS protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u235	I'm asking for some silence in the hall. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u236	This CDS-PP project is at a fundamental point: training in Portugal is not currently appropriate. This is recognized by all: by the associations of the sector and by the state itself, in line with what the Member of the Socialist Party here today did not mention. I do not understand the problem to the left of hearing the word « training check». He looks like a big daddy! What is the problem with the teacher check, with the training check? Oh, my God! What's your problem with that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u237	It's freedom! The problem is with freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u238	What is your drama with freedom of choice? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u239	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u240	What is your drama with the fact that people can choose and not always be the state to choose, always to occupy our lives? Oh, my God! It seems that you only like state, state, state...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u241	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u242	That is why it is understood that whenever they can, they are next to the Socialist Party increasing taxes, because they just want more, more and more state, less, less and less freedom. That's always what happens. It's not love, it's more state!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u243	To close the debate, Mr João Almeida, of the CDS Parliamentary Group, has the floor. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u244	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u245	I'm sorry, but you weren't registered. Anyway, he's on his way. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u246	Mr. President and Mr. Members: I was not registered for not going to talk about love, but this 'Liberal Minute' will be dedicated today to vocational training and vocational retraining. I'll start by reaffirming the obvious. The issue is urgent because, in fact, changes in the way of living, work and, above all, consumption are profound and accelerated. The problem is huge, so we will need to re-qualify millions of Portuguese in the next decade. The issue is crucial, because without properly qualified persons there will be no economic or social development and, above all, there will be no opportunity for the personal realization of these people. And the issue is new, since the skills that will be needed in the future are very different from those of the past. So, in the face of this problem, which is vast, which is urgent, which is crucial and which is new, we have who? We have a tired and distracted socialist government, which does not seem to give great importance or priority to this matter and even stop! , it is an opposition party—which I welcome here—which brings to debate this issue to the House, four or five months after the beginning of the legislature. on the other hand, we have an IEFP, which is a majestic entity, with a budget of EUR 900 million, whose budget decision affects vocational training and requalification no one knows very well which is, and above all, the effectiveness of vocational training cannot be measured because the reports are not known. I can assure you one thing: it is not this way, with this structure, that will be achieved...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u247	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u248	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, it is not this way and with this structure that you will achieve what really interests and that goes far beyond the technical skills, that it is to have more flexible, more autonomous, more creative people, in a word, more freer people to work in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u249	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u250	Now, to close the debate, Mr. João Almeida has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Any Portuguese who questions the fact that our economy is no longer growing, seeing this debate, fully understands why.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u252	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u253	In this Parliament we have parties and Members who think that in vocational training, companies and workers are secondary, because what matters is the State, what matters is how the State defines vocational training, regardless of what workers want and companies need, what matters is how much money the State has for vocational training. Although it leaves more than 2000 million to carry out, for three years, it is important to keep the workers who are, whether or not they perform their function. In other words, what matters is to keep everything as it is so that the country can't get better. But there's a bigger problem. It is not just the growth of the economy that is on the way. There is also the answer to another of the great questions that Portuguese ask, because this affects them daily: why, by increasing the minimum wage, the average wage does not increase? The explanation is, exactly, in this difference of vision that has the left and that has the alternative that we propose here. You think it is the government that can increase the standard of living of Portuguese by unilateral decision. What increases the standard of living of Portuguese is that they can have better qualifications, adapted to the needs of our economy. Ask a worker whether he or she wants to have vocational training in an area where there is no employment, and therefore he or she will always be in the same job, receiving the same job, or whether he or she wants to be trained in an area where there is demand and in which there is good wages to pay. Ask whether or not this worker will be able to have such training, be able to compete for that job, be able to improve his or her life and that of his or her family.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u255	What we're discussing here is what we discussed in the difference between the left and the right. Once again, the gentlemen have shown that they are only able to level below. We want to raise the living conditions of the Portuguese and our economy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the sixth item on the agenda. We are moving on to the voting period. I would ask the services to prepare the electronic record to proceed with the quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records the presence of 217 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have the quorum to proceed to the vote. I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who were unable to register electronically to indicate it to the Bureau. [[Pause.]] Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD, and Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, informed the Bureau that they were not able to register, so there are 219 Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us start the votes. I ask Secretary Ana Mesquita to read the Draft Vote No 192 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — We regret the death of Pedro Baptista.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u257	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Pedro Luís da Rocha Baptista died on the morning of February 20, in Porto, near the beach of his childhood — the Foz do Douro. I was 71 years old. It is clearly representative of a generation that, in the arts and letters, in student agitation and popular movements, operated the most radical rupture with the dominant culture of resignation and subservience that lasted until the end of the dictatorship. An intense life of fighting for freedom, against fascism and against colonial war. At the end of 1971, he founded the clandestine newspaper The People's Cry. In 1973, he was arrested and beaten up by the political police. Submitted by the PIDE to sleep torture for two weeks, he did not confess anything, nor denounced anyone, being later deported to Angola. He returned to Porto on 25 April 1974. Pedro Baptista left us a few hours before the opening of the inaugural exhibition of the 200-year celebration program of the Liberal Revolution. The city entrusted him with the presidency of the celebrations of the Bicentenary of the Revolution of 1820, which, from the port, would put an end to monarchic absolutism and free the country from British military custody. Graduated in Historical-Philosophical Sciences by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Porto, there also completed the doctorate in Philosophy. He gave us a vast literary work, from philosophical essay to memorialist writing and fiction. The civic commitment and the political struggle mark your whole life. Member of the Municipal Assembly of Porto, on the bench of the movement of Rui Moreira, was a member of the Socialist Party to the Assembly of the Republic, elected by the circle of the Port, and candidate of the PS to the Chamber of Gondomar. He remained faithful to his roots and to the causes of always: the North and the Port, where he was born, regionalization, free thinking. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Pedro Baptista, pays tribute to the exemplary citizen and expresses sympathy to his family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u258	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed the Vote Project No. 193 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CDS-PP and PSD ), regretting the death of Vasco Pulido Valente, which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u259	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Vasco Pulido Valente, a pseudonym of Vasco Valente Correia Guedes, was born in Lisbon on 21 November 1941 and died at the age of 78 in the same city on 21 February 2020. With origins in a family with high intellectual culture and strong opposition to the New State, he was a fatherly grandson of Francisco Pulido Valente and son of Julio António Bogarim Correia Guedes and Maria Helena dos Santos Pulido Valente, both prominent members of the PCP. He studied Philosophy, at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, and, during the late 1960s and early 1970s, he studied for England, where he PhDed in History, at Oxford University, with the Thesis The Power and People : the Revolution of 1910, directed by Raymond Carr. Vasco Pulido Valente was Deputy Secretary of State of Prime Minister Francisco Sá Carneiro in the VI Constitutional Government and Member of the Assembly of the Republic, elected by the PSD, in the VII Legislation. Historian, essayist, professor, journalist and political analyst, Vasco Pulido Valente was, above all, a free man. Free from the conventions of the politically correct, free from the general need to please those who listen to it, free from the ties of those who expect recognition. He freely challenged the political class and shook the dominant conceptions with humor. It will be recorded in our collective memory as a remarkable thinker and a unique ambassador of the Portuguese language. Brilliant, of lucid thought and a disconcerting arguity, Vasco Pulido Valente marked his time deeply and his departure represents an irreparable loss in Portuguese political and cultural life. The Assembly of the Republic decides to pay due tribute to Vasco Pulido Valente, expressing its deep regret and dismay for its disappearance and presenting to the family its heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u260	Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we moved on to the Vote Project No. 195 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD Members ) — Despite the death of João Ataíde das Neves, who will be read by Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « John Ataíde das Neves died in the morning of February 21, in Coimbra, at the age of 61. It was with great sadness and dismay that all of us, in this Chamber, received the news of John Ataíde's premature death. Natural of Figueira da Foz, was licensed in Law by the University of Coimbra and graduate in Law of the Business Sector of the State by the Faculty of Law of the University of Lisbon, Judge since 1991 and Judge Disembarger of the Court of Relationship of Coimbra since 2008, having also exercised the positions of Deputy National Director of the Judicial Police in Coimbra and Porto. For all of us who remember him, endowed with unique cultural wealth and a refined sense of humor, John Ataíde also stood out for his civic and political intervention as President of the Figueira da Foz Chamber and as President of the Intermunicipal Community of the Coimbra Region. Between April and October 2019, he was Secretary of State for the Environment of the XXI Constitutional Government, a challenge that he passionately embraced in the fight against climate change and the challenges posed for future generations. From October to Thursday, he was a member of the Socialist Party at the Assembly of the Republic, where he was elected by the electoral circle of Coimbra. In all these functions, he proved to be an eximilar servant of the public interest, a man of cause and great humanist, representing his premature departure an insurmountable loss to the Assembly of the Republic. A citizen in love with the causes he embraced understood the place of deputy as a place of excellence to deepen democracy and fundamental rights. João Ataíde already misses this bench and everyone with whom he has crossed. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of John Ataíde das Neves, pays tribute to the exemplary citizen and humanist politician and expresses deep condolences to the family here present, to all colleagues and to all his friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u262	Mrs. Members, I inform you that I am associated with this draft vote and that the family and friends of our colleague João Ataíde das Neves are present in the galleries. Let us therefore vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to the Vote Project No. 196 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of Joaquim Pina Moura, which will be read by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « He died last week, at the age of 67, Joaquim Pina Moura. Natural of Loriga, Seia Town Hall, began his very young civic and political intervention and at the age of 19 he was already a candidate from the democratic opposition to the 1969 elections. He studied at the Faculty of Port Engineering, having stopped the course after 25 April 1974 and would eventually graduate in Economics, with a postgraduate degree in Monetary and Financial Economy, at the Higher Institute of Economics and Management, in Lisbon, where he would be teaching. In 1972, he became a member of the CFP and, in 1976, was elected to the Central Committee. Pina Moura was one of the leaders of the Union of Communist Students and three years later worked in the Information and Propaganda Section, from which she left for the Committee on Economic Activities of the CFP in 1987. After he stopped being a PCP militant in 1991, he was in 1992 in the foundation of the Left Platform with other former militants, such as Barros Moura and Raimundo Narciso. He then approached the Socialist Party, having helped as independent in the launch of the General States for a New Major, which preceded victory in the 1995 legislatures. In the course of the XIII Constitutional Government, he became a militant of the Socialist Party and served alongside then Prime Minister Antonio Guterres, of whom he was Under-Secretary of State. He later went on to serve as Minister of Economics and in the second Government of Antony Guterres he accumulated the same folder as that of Finance. After leaving office in the XIV Constitutional Government, he would still exercise parliamentary functions in the IX Legislation, withdrawing from public life after that, dedicating himself to management activities in the private sector. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Joaquim Pina Moura, paying tribute to its civic journey and the construction of democracy, and conveys its condolences to family, friends and the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u264	I note that the President of the Assembly of the Republic is associated with all motions for a vote of regret. Let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, we shall now vote, in general, on draft resolution No 72 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent reclassification of national road No 225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 133 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The urgent re-qualification of national road No 225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote on draft resolution No 121 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation of EN225. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 236 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of national road No 225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on draft resolution No 60 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government enforce the obligations of the State and its agencies by ensuring a safe movement of the local population and of all who use EN225. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] All draft resolutions are down to 6. the Commission. We then generally vote for Bill No 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic reporting and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Make several recommendations to the Government arising from the sale announced by EDP, Energies de Portugal, S.A. of six dams in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and CH, votes against PS, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from ENP and IL.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 262 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government not allow the disposal of State-owned dams to EDP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the EPC, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 191 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the imposition of anti-abuse standards in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security, cleaning and other services, ensuring compliance with labour law and the legal regime for the transmission of establishment. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and IL abstentions.]] The project goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 252 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government that the workers be caught up in the surveillance and cleaning sector. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the PS, PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Down to 10. the Commission. Mr. João Paulo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u265	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u266	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 6 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Amends the Civil Procedure Code, establishing a system of impermenability of the housing itself and permanent and setting restrictions on the failure and execution of mortgages. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, IL and CH and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 210 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the impermissibility of permanent housing property ( amends the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] What effect did Mr André Ventura have on paovra?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u267	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will send the Bureau a statement of vote on these last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u268	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 17 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a revolution in vocational training to adapt to new times. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, and abstentions against the NAP.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 227 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends that the Government urgently regulate animal legislation in circuses. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The initiative is down to 12. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 138 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the urgent regulation of Law No 20 / 2019, 22 February, which provides for the strengthening of the protection of animals used in circuses. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Down to 12. the Commission. Mr. Pedro Coimbra, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u269	Mr President, it is to inform that, since I am a party to the next vote, I want to declare myself prevented and therefore under Article 8 ( 3 ). that of the Statute of Members, I will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u270	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary will report on four opinions of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u271	Mr. President and Mr. Members, first of all, I refer to the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Coimbra, Case No. 1483 / 119.0T9CBR, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members, to issue an opinion to authorize the lifting of parliamentary immunity of Mr. Pedro Coimbra ( PS ) within the framework of those cases. Mr. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PS abstentions.]] Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u272	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will send the Bureau a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u273	All right, Mrs. Deputy. Be registered. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u274	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of 1. the Procurator's Section of the Republic of the Comarca de Braga - Department of Investigation and Criminal Action, Case No 4660 / 19.0T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies delivered an opinion to authorize Mr Joaquim Barreto ( PS ), to intervene in the framework of those cars. Mr. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u275	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of 1. the Procurator's Section of the Republic of the Comarca de Braga - Department of Investigation and Criminal Action, Case No 4660 / 19.0T9BRG, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Deputies delivered an opinion to authorize Mr Luís Soares ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars. Mr. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-28.u276	Mr. President and Mr. Finally, the request by the Court of Justice of the Northern Lisboa, Case No 2250 / 19.7T9VFX, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members gave an opinion to authorize Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of those cars. Mr. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 4 March, at 3 p.m., on the agenda of the Committee's fifteenth-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a) ). the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 10 minutes.]]
