ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Mrs. Officers of the authority, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] We will start our work today, continuing with the discussion, in the speciality, of the Bill No 61 / XIX/ 2. a — Approves the State budget for 2021. As you know, the first point on our agenda is the discussion of the rules avoked by the Plenary, so we start with proposal 909 - C of the CDS-PP, of adding an article 15. o -A — Exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits. Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CDS presented yesterday a set of tax measures, as it had already presented a set of social measures, to protect people's income, to alleviate the treasury of companies, which is the same as to protect employment and work, and to encourage investment and employment. Yesterday, we saw that the opening to approve these measures was null and void. We saw a measure as simple here, such as the discount on the IRS (tax on the income of the public) of masks and disinfectant gel, considered as health expense. Fortunately, as soon as the CDS was rejected, a measure was adopted in exactly the same sense and very similar content. We also realize that here it counts more who proposes, and the arrangements that are made in the adoption of the Budget, than exactly the content of the measures. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos Pereira.]] But if you are. Members are sorry for what they have done, they can always try to correct today. of the measures presented by the CDS, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have advocated a proposal which contains precisely a set of measures to alleviate the treasury of companies which is what is most important now, because it means that companies continue to have money to meet their obligations, namely the obligation to pay wages to the people who work with them. We have introduced measures such as the elimination of autonomous taxes, for companies with losses, within IRC (tax on income of the public), the elimination of the CFP (special payment on account ), which has already been announced several times, it was simply to make reality an announcement that has been made for years — the suspension of payments on account and the IRC in cash. In addition, we have also presented an idea which has made its way and which is, in fact, enshrined in the law, but which, purely and simply, is not applied or almost never happens. And this is so simple: when someone, whether a company or a particular one, has a credit on the state, that is, when the state is owed money to someone, it cannot then come to demand that he pay his obligations or, above all, cannot be required to meet his obligations, without also fulfilling his obligations. I will give practical examples: a company that is waiting for the State to make VAT refunds (value added tax ), i.e. that repays VAT that it has already paid and paid the extra and, at the same time, has to deliver the IRS discounts of its employees, makes sense that it cannot use this credit, this money that the State owes you to pay this tax obligation? Second example: a company that provided a service or sold a property to the State. The State is late to pay and has not yet paid it, at the same time it is required to comply with tax obligations and heavy fines if it does not comply. The idea of the CDS is simple and is, in fact, already enshrined in the law. We propose that the credits may be used to pay these debts. What we propose is simply a process which does not allow the State to systematically and in practice prevent the operation of this provision.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u3	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, on this matter advocated by the CDS, we want to say that the CFP advocates the application of a current system of accounts between micro and small enterprises and the State, allowing the correctness of accounts, in particular in terms of VAT and IRC. What happens is that companies often have VAT or IRC to receive but, as they have not yet received this receipt, they have credit notes to pay these same taxes and it is not made a correct account, so we argue that, in these cases, this correct account can be made between the taxes to be received and the taxes to be paid. For several years we have presented this proposal which was adopted in the State budget for 2020, and which is today an article of the General Tax Law ( LGT ) which enshrines this audit for micro and small businesses. The problem we have seen so far is that since its approval the government has not yet taken any measures...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u5	Now! Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u6	...to apply what is in the General Tax Law. Therefore, we believe that it cannot continue in this way, the current account is provided for in the General Tax Law, since the beginning of 2020, and the Government cannot continue to ignore the law, must finally implement this regime. As for the CDS proposal, we have followed some articles, everything that has to do with this issue of correct accounting. However, we voted against all proposals that mix tax credits with non-tax credits, because it seems absolutely inexcusable to us that a company which has non-tax debt from the State of Charity, for any good sold or service provided, may abolish these non-tax debts in the taxes it has to pay. As for what are correct accounts strictly tax, we voted in favour and we will continue to beat ourselves so that what is in the General Tax Law, at the initiative of the CFP, from the State budget for 2020, is finally applied by the Government, thus relieving the treasury of micro and small enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u7	Again, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u8	Mr President, when the CDS and the PCP agree on an idea, that is why we already see the justice and the obviousness that it would become put into practice. This is because, in fact, it is so obvious and so logical that when the State owes money to a company it cannot, at the same time as it does not pay, demand it to pay its taxes. It's obvious. In fact, the provision is already in the LGT, in fact, already in the past, even before 2020. What's the matter? It is that the State simply does not comply. In practice, anyone who talks to companies will verify that they cannot make this provision met, so we work on creating a process to make this compensation possible. Of course it will be easier to do so with tax credits. I think it is clear that if the State owes money, whether it is to a company, it is immoral to come and demand it to meet it, without even fulfilling it. I understand that this is easier, we can start with small steps, we can start as the government wants, but we're going to start in some way. To lay down provisions in the law that everyone realizes that they are fair, but that, then, the State and tax administration, simply refuse to comply, is an immorality that has to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u9	The Government has the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u10	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it will certainly not be rhetorical that will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u11	No, that's why we put forward proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u12	It's with attitude!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u13	Madam Member, allow me to tell you that you have been ruling at a difficult time. [[Oh!!Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u14	But at that difficult time, you might have many reasons not to take certain measures, but not to take simplification measures have no justification. And, Mrs Deputy, I do not remember your inspired rhetoric at that time on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Mrs Deputy, two different questions, one on non-tax credits. In 2016, Mrs Deputy was approved a regime which is in force, in which there may be compensation for non-taxable debts in respect of tax liabilities provided that these claims are recognised by a judgment handed down under trial. This gives legal certainty to the tax administration in order to make compensation for non-taxable debts. This is in effect, Mrs. Deputies. It was widely discussed how such non-tax credits could be recognised and that is in force. With regard to tax credits, there is already compensation and this compensation is made directly when we are talking about debts relating to the same tax, Mrs. With regard to the same tax, they are made automatically.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u15	I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u16	When we are not talking about the same tax, Mrs Deputies, the greatest difficulty has to do with voluntary compliance deadlines, taxpayers' guarantee deadlines in relation to opposition to certain acts and that is why we are no longer advanced than perhaps we would like to be. But, Madam Member, what I do not think is that the honourable Member comes here to make an exaltation, as if the CDS had suddenly come back 20 years ago and it was the taxpayer's party forgetting that, when it could be the taxpayer's party and the taxpayer's governor, he did nothing strictly for it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, the current account is in force, the current account is being implemented. Do you need to walk faster? Yes, we have to make an effort to improve this compensation, but to say that there is nothing, it is not right, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u17	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u18	Mr President, it is just to remind Mr. Secretary of State, about exalted rhetorics—and I did not want to talk about the matter—that there was a moment called the "simple moment", which involved up to a cow with wings, in which this was one of the measures presented in 2016. Therefore, I suppose that by 2020, in the middle of a pandemic, it will not be too much to ask for the measure to exist. Moreover, I would like to remind you that, yes, when we were in the government we did a simplification and a reform of the IRC that the government threw at the trash can, so it is not true that nothing has been done. The truth is that the PS shot at the trash can this IRC reform that it would have done much for Portuguese companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u19	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u20	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you are not surprised, indeed, your Government, in this matter, does not surprise us. Yesterday, on this point, one of the Members. State Secretaries said it was not true that it increased debt to private and suppliers because from 2009 to 2020 it decreased. That is true, Mr. Secretary of State, but, from 2013 to 2019, increased and much, from 2015 to 2019, increased several million, and in that period the Government was mostly led by the Socialist Party. But, Mr Secretary of State, it is not only the question of value, it is the question of average payment time, which almost doubled in relation to suppliers and privates! That is why the government cannot say that everything is better and that we are moving on the right path. It is very unfair to say — as it was still quite clear today — that this Parliament is rhetorical about the debts to suppliers when it has today a concrete proposal that does not solve everything, but takes a step and makes a fundamental justice to which the State has not paid, to whom it has debts to the state, and the simplest way to resolve itself through credit compensation. In fact, that is why it is called « credit compensation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u21	Mr Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u22	Mr Ventura, you are a lost case with regard to the truth and therefore I will not waste time to deny what you have said, because what you have said is a lie and a final point. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, let me tell you that what the honourable Member says we were lying in the trash was the following: we lowered the IRS for families and did not continue to lower the IRC for businesses. This was an option that we have taken, and the honourable Member is against and repeatedly here affirms it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u23	IRS was already coming down!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u24	Now, Mrs Deputy, just for the clarity of the debate because the honourable Member, unlike the speaker who succeeded her, is rigorous and likes concrete facts, I say the following: in 2016, we have implemented the current account with non-tax debt. However, it has been limited — it is admitted here that it has been limited — '(...) to the debts recognised by judgment handed down under trial...', which are the only claims which are required for the purposes of tax administration. This, Mrs Deputy, complements the failure that Mrs Deputy had at the end of the speech and certainly corresponds to her expectations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u25	At this point too, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u26	Mr President, I just wanted to remind Mr. Secretary of State that he has a relationship with the truth certainly better than my...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u27	It's not hard!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u28	But is the Left Block now defending the government? You have to understand: either you want to defend or you don't want to defend. Mr Secretary of State, I will read you a title — unless the press also has a difficult relationship with the truth! — « Government increases the debt to suppliers ». The date of 13 June 2020 is not 2018, nor 2017, nor 2012, nor 2015, nor 2011. It is 13 June 2020. More : « Government increases average payment time ». Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know what your question is with the truth, but the truth is here and it was said on June 13. I will not mention the means of social communication, but I will be happy to bring you to your office, with the title The truth, so that Mr. Secretary of State can keep and, at night, before going to bed, read.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u29	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u30	Mr President, Mr Ventura, allow me just to give you the following advice for the performance of your duties as a Member: see the figures of the Directorate-General for Budget and not just the press clipping they do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u31	So it wasn't a lost case? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u32	We're all wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u33	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the second request for a lawyer, I would like to inform the House that 128 Members are already registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a quorum for any vote. In order to intervene in the context of proposal 621 - C of the Greens, an addition to Article 196. o -A — Promoting the use of public transport by the student population / at school age, has the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the ENP has been engaged in reducing costs of public transport prices, in demand for a public service of quality and at affordable prices to promote its use in people's travel to the workplace, for educational establishments, for public services and, in general, to ensure the right to mobility of the population. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal has not only economic and social objectives but also has direct environmental implications. That is why the Greens advocated this proposal to promote the use of public transport by the student population. The free pass for young people is another right step so that it is possible to ensure the goal of creating healthy habits, which will have repercussions in the future. Children and young people who get used to opt for the use of public transport on school trips or for leisure moments later, as adults, will not seek nor will they feel the need to settle their mobility in the private car. We are talking about a clear bet with positive consequences in the present and in the future and thus with a responsible degree of sustainability. Sustainability, which is underlined, will be all the more consistent as the bet on extending public transport supply extends throughout the territory and ensures that, with this strengthening, the confidence of the users will be regained. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, concern about the environment cannot be for sympathetic statements, for megalomanic projects for a more or less distant future or for accumulation of tasks in a superministerial. Do what is at hand, even above with relatively low costs. It is in favour of free public transport for children and young people, with a view to the future and commitment to the environment, that promise which, in the name of the pandemic, already seems to be forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u35	With no further inscriptions regarding this article, we are now discussing Article 208. o — Public housing policies. For an intervention on this article of the bill, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u36	Mr President, I just wanted to realize that in 2019 the government promised that for the first time we would have a housing policy also for the poor middle class. So far, we do not know how many have been benefited, what real numbers are assigned to this heading or why. We know, yes, that this year, the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation (IHRU) will double its value in the Budget for EUR 317, EUR 6 million. This was announced, Mr. Secretary of State, and in official bulletin. What we are proposing is that these values be duly publicized and that we know, in a single document—not in the range of documents of a municipal, regional and national nature—the values that the Portuguese are paying with public housing and for whom. On 16 October 2020 the Government promised that it would open a new era in public policy, which would be guided by transparency. To date, we still do not know how much this value is effectively used in public housing policy, how much it was used for the recovery of the state heritage, how much it was used for the poor middle class. What we want is to have a national document, objective, which comes to the Assembly of the Republic and is published annually, so that the Portuguese know how much they spend on their money with public housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u37	Since there are no more entries concerning this article, we turn to proposal 1118 - C of the PS, to add Article 219. o -A— Savings Plan Rescue Reform. I'm asking the ladies. Members if there are inscriptions to intervene. [[Pause.]] With no inscriptions, we turn to proposal 1112 - C of the PS, adding an article 219. o-B — Guarantee of access to essential services. Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, yesterday more proposals from the Socialist Party were adopted strengthening the line of this Budget, which aims to respond to the needs and difficulties of the Portuguese people. On the one hand, we have the guarantee that no Portuguese is without water or light, preventing these services from being cut, on the other hand the increase of €100 in the reference value in the minimum of existence and also the absence of costs in the rescue of PPRs (saving-reform plans), ensuring that people's savings can be used at times of greatest need. On this point, I would like to point out that the debate on this budget was undoubtedly marked by a phrase from the opposition leader, who basically said that this budget gives everything to everyone. It is true that this sentence was said by addressing, in particular, the subject of the minimum wage and, in some ways, by saying that the increase in the minimum wage could lead to an increase in unemployment. This, contrary to the recent history itself, because never as recently as the minimum wage has increased so much or created so much employment in Portugal. After long days of budgetary debate, everyone realized that the depth of what he said or where he wanted to get to the leader of the opposition was not fully understood. I would like to take this opportunity to assure the Portuguese, as well as the Members present in this House, that - and I would like to say in a loud voice, without any complex - whether the idea is that of this budget year to be able to respond to all problems, of all the Portuguese, arising from this pandemic, then Mr Rui Rio, leader of the opposition, is absolutely right. from our point of view, this budget has an unmistakable mark of public policies that clearly respond to the problems of Portuguese. I must say, in the interest of the truth, that we understand the attitude of the PSD leader and even the awkward one, the "trap" that can be this attitude, because the PSD is not used to responding to such a crisis. The PSD responds to a crisis by taking everything away from everyone, but that is not the way to respond to the crisis. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u39	That's not what we did, and that's not what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u40	To speak on the same article, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that the Greens follow this proposal from the Socialist Party, because we also find it absolutely imperative to prevent the suspension of the provision of essential services in terms and in terms of the forms defined in their proposal. As a result of the pandemic, many families are experiencing severe difficulties and, in many cases, even material deprivations. We are talking about a very significant universe of people who have had big breaks in their incomes, either because they were forced to stay in layoff or because they lost their job and, therefore, were left without any source of income. However, without prejudice to the importance that social benefits represent or can represent in this social emergency, it is also necessary to ensure that families that are more fragile do not become unprotected with regard to access to essential services. In essence, this proposal not only renews this guarantee for 2021, but also enables the replacement of essential services without cost to the consumer. In addition, the Greens also presented a proposal to establish an extraordinary regime for electricity and water billing for the year 2021. in this proposal, what the Greens want is to establish a maximum limit on the billing of electricity and water consumption for families, while enforcing the containment measures resulting from the pandemic. According to our proposal, this maximum billing limit cannot exceed the consumption verified in the 2019 homologous month and only applies to the place of residence. Indeed, with the confinement and telework, resulting from the pandemic, the consumption of electricity and water from families has increased substantially, due to the past time at home and the performance of work at home. It follows that this situation can be extended over time, with the implications that this will have for increasing the consumption of these goods, particularly with regard to electricity, especially with regard to the need for heating in these winter months. Thus, in the face of the essential difficulties that many of these families are going through, and considering that it is the citizens who are now bearing general costs that, in normal periods and circumstances, should be the responsibility of the companies or the Public Administration, where they work, The Greens hope that this proposal will receive the reception of the remaining banks, until the companies supplying these goods are not being economically affected, since they end up looking for the family budgets for part of the billing they are losing in the industrial, commercial, services or even the Public Administration sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u42	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal which the Socialist Party has advocated for voting in plenary, which is associated with the suspension of essential service cuts, such as the supply of water, electricity, natural gas, electronic communications — essential goods and services at any time, even more now, in a pandemic period and arriving in winter — is a good example of what has been the government's somewhat erratic policy in recent months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u44	I'd say in the last few years!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u45	The Left Block has alerted, but the government has ignored and now comes to correct its own mistake. These service cuts and essential goods were suspended on a proposal from the Left Block under the law of the Assembly of the Republic until 30 September. We have warned either the Government or in plenary discussions with Mr Prime Minister that it would be necessary to extend this period of suspension of essential goods and services, for the simple reason that there was a second wave and the economic and social crisis had not passed. On the contrary, it was worsening and the number of redundancies, the number of businesses and sectors of activity that would have difficulty in economic recovery—and some of them are still being prevented by law from having a normal activity—would make this measure necessary, of the purest sense, to ensure that no one faced the winter without water, soon when they send us to wash their hands to eliminate the virus; without electricity or natural gas, preventing access to a heat source; and now, in particular, our young people, without access to essential electronic communications, at a time when the school also faces a pandemic. Now, the government has made mad ears to this, and the Socialist Party has finally come to recognize that it was a mistake. And, yes, Mrs. Government members, it was a mistake this matter has not been extended in due time. The Socialist Party says: "In 2021 we will correct this mistake and even do it retroactively." But in this kind of situation, what is wrong is expensive in the period when the mistake remains. The Socialist Party knows that and that is why it puts in its proposal that whoever has the water, electricity or gas cut in October, November or December, then, without any cost, will be able to resume the service in January. But I repeat: in the months of October, November and December they may have been left without these essential goods and services. We hope that this example will serve to prevent other mistakes that are at risk. And I am speaking now, in particular, of social support, to protect those who are suffering and will suffer from the acute economic crisis. In the dance of postponements, we have seen, from day to day, delaying the vote either on extraordinary support or on changes to unemployment benefit. That's why it won't happen today. These matters will be voted on this afternoon. And the question that remains on the table is whether the Government and the PS, having learned from the mistakes they have made, will now recognize that they cannot leave people with the rules of unemployment allowance which were the legacy of the right and the troika out of the necessary support in 2021. If the PS is the guardian of the amendments that the right has made to the unemployment benefit rules, we already know that about 50 000 people will be harmed in 2021. I hope that the answer the PS has to give is not to come after the damage. It is that these people will feel these results in the skin. As far as extraordinary support is concerned, we hope that the PS will not come later in 2021, to recognize that after all, it was short, that it left out people who the PS itself had already said it wanted to protect and now that it was less than the support that happened in 2020. These are the essential points of the votes we have before us and, in this fundamental respect, I hope that Mr Carlos Pereira will answer me. The question is very simple: did the PS learn from the mistakes or will it insist on the mistakes it has made? It is that these mistakes cost people and the country a lot. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u47	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the PS has advocated here a number of proposals, one of which concerns the minimum of existence. The CFP, yesterday, presented a number of proposals on a fairer tax policy within IRS, and we put on the table this question of the minimum existence and the need for its increase. The minimum value of existence is that which ensures that, after the IRS has been found, no one remains below a certain amount which is considered essential for living and which allows a part of the population, which has lower incomes, to be free to pay IRS. In recent years, what has happened is that the minimum of existence has not increased in the same proportion of the increase in national minimum wage. This increase in the minimum wage and wages very close to the minimum wage made many people who were covered by the minimum of existence stop being covered. Therefore, the CFP presented proposals for a significant increase in the minimum of existence, corresponding to this increase in the national minimum wage in recent years. We are talking, above all, about people who are impoverished and who will continue to impoverish work, because it is not applied to a more advanced measure in terms of minimum existence. But what does the PS propose before the CFP proposal on the minimum of existence? It proposes an increase in the minimum existence of only €100, i.e. a measure that will benefit only, according to the PS accounts itself, 20 000 taxpayers, and not more than this. This is therefore a very limited measure in its impacts and which does not correspond to what is necessary, which is to increase the minimum of existence in order to compensate for the increases in the minimum wage in recent years, so that in fact there can be a tax relief for lower incomes, for those who continue to impoverish work. But we do not forget other proposals which the CFP also presented, such as the increase in the specific deduction, which was rejected and was a measure that would benefit not only the lowest incomes, but also the intermediate incomes, ending a situation that has occurred since 2010 because the value of the specific deduction is frozen since that date, which means that since 2010 taxpayers with lower and intermediate incomes have been losing purchasing power. It is necessary to defuse this value, increase it - 200 €, as proposed by the PCP, and make it a value that can become indexed, that does not get frozen. In yesterday's votes, the Government did not correspond to its commitments to degrade this year the IRS for those who live from its work, which was a commitment from the Government itself, but the CFP will continue to insist, still in the afternoon, on defending a fairer fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u49	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, your speech has shown something very simple: the Socialist Party has not yet realized anything! He did not understand anything about what happened in 2010 or what is happening in 2020. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u51	For you, a budget crisis or an economic crisis is the same. For you, having a headache or a colic is equal and the treatment should be equal, it is not necessary to adapt the medication to the specific problem that each one may be living. For you, everything is the same and then someone really has to solve the problems. This has been the Social Democratic Party, unfortunately because you have no capacity and always leave the country in a completely chaotic situation. [[PSD applause.]] But, Mr. Member, I remember Mr. Minister of Finance, Teixeira dos Santos, when he said in 2011 that the country was practically without money to pay wages and pensions and that the government that would succeed would not have time to sit down. There was someone who had the honesty to recognize reality. Today, you can't understand and, as you can't understand, unlike what the government says, you have a budget that doesn't solve the problems. And we are not the ones who say that, Mr President, you must be aware that the Portuguese have already felt this. This government does not plan, this government does not anticipate, this government does not perceive the reality and therefore systematically, both in the economic sphere and in the field of health, merely reacts, going after the damage, trying to cover the holes that it itself creates. And here, some of these proposals reflect that. Some of the proposals that you have put forward deserve our favourable vote—of course they have deserved—but again they are late because a government that wants to be, that has leadership, that has direction, that sees the country as it is, is always anticipating everything, decides in time and time and, automatically, the crisis is no longer the one that unfortunately we are all feeling today. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u52	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u53	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, following the long intervention which you have made, very promisingly, on this subject, I would like to leave you with one question and the PSD Parliamentary Group. Does the honourable Member think that dealing with this extraordinary crisis that we are all facing, that dealing with this public health crisis which has become an economic crisis and which tends to become a very serious social crisis, is doing what the PSD Parliamentary Group and the PSD in general did, which was, in the first hour of voting, in general, this Budget, saying "We are out, we are leaving the Portuguese, we are not available to discuss whatever it is about this Budget"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u54	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u55	That's what you guys did! What Mr has done was to be part of a parliamentary group that has refused, since the first hour, to contribute to the country having a budget, and a robust budget, to combat this difficult crisis. What you're doing is fire in sight. They are putting forward proposals, supposedly for the PS to approve, but then they reject the Budget by voting against your own proposals. Now, this isn't serious, that's not what Portugal needs, that's not what we're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I almost wish to ask this plenary question : but the proposal to guarantee essential services was the Left Block? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u56	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u57	The proposal to guarantee essential services is a proposal of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u58	No, no! It's ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u59	Family fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u60	Their intervention was simply an act of contrition or an apology for leaving Portuguese at this time. Despite all the proposals for social support, employment protection and protection for Portuguese, you are preparing to vote against the budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, a final note on the minimums of existence, to tell you that the minimums of existence have risen systematically and, at this point, even above, taking into account the levels of inflation, the real increase will be greater. Of course, we realize that we have to do more, but we are doing something and we have been doing it for a long time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u61	Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Carlos Pereira, just wanted to tell you that I don't know if your bench was happy with the fierce criticism that you made to Dr. António Costa, Prime Minister, who said that with the PSD, you didn't want any dialogue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u63	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that here is what people hate in politics, that is to discuss politics and not content. The only answer Mr. Carlos Pereira gave to the Left Block was on paternity rights of a proposal. Mr President, I do not want to rewrite the story, it is recorded, but the truth, and this was the most frontal criticism I have made to the Socialist Party and to the Government, is that the Government did not hear that it had to extend the time limit for the suspension of essential services and goods. He didn't hear, he didn't want to know, he didn't want to, and now he's running after the damage. But there are people who saw their water cut in October and November, and they will see the same in December, because they had no response from the government and the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u65	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, Mr Carlos Pereira, the concrete question I would like to ask you, again, to see whether the PS has learned from this mistake or will repeat it again, as regards unemployment benefit and extraordinary support and, in part of the unemployment allowance, at its worst, being the guardian of the broken rules of the PSD in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u67	Mr Pereira has signed up for the floor, but there is no time left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u68	Get the PAN!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u69	We looked at a proposal submitted by the PSD, adding to the bill, article 219. o-C — Export credit insurance. Mrs. Sofia Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to tell Mr Pereira that you should be ashamed, because anyone who said that the PSD did not count on anything and that the government would end on the day that I needed the PSD was the Prime Minister of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u71	Today we live critical moments in the world economy and how the various governments will implement the stimulus to the economy will be essential for having an increasingly waterproof economy to exogenous factors, such as the pandemic we are going through. The PSD has constantly called the Government's attention to this issue, has emphasized the importance of maintaining jobs, the importance of capitalising businesses and the importance of helping the exporting industry. And after these partial confinements to which we have been subjected, much because of the incompetence of the Socialist Party Government, it is essential to promote the resumption of the economy, it is essential to promote exports. As you know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, credit insurance plays a fundamental and historic role in supporting the economy, providing conditions for companies, at a time when they have never talked so much about risk, to make transactions with greater security. As you know, a study by the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) pointed out that in 38 developed countries Portugal is 35. the country in terms of spending with the crisis, i.e. Portugal is of the countries that have less spending with the crisis, is the fourth from the end. The gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, who support the Government of the Socialist Party, know perfectly that the Government is getting closer to the exit door. I ask you, is this the legacy you want to leave? Is it really through the horse door that they want to go out? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u72	We turn to Article 220. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, which is the subject of several proposed amendments. First of all, Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government today, this Assembly of the Republic has the opportunity to prove that trains do not always pass only once, that there are trains that can pass twice. And today, there is a train that can pass again and have the favourable vote of the left benches, to protect the incomes of young people, to increase the young IRS, to allow access to Gate 65, after yesterday's exchanges and docks, between PCP, Left Block and Socialist Party, to be rectified and, above all, to allow those who fill their mouths to talk about the crisis that impacts, again, on new generations, when it comes to protecting the incomes of young people, to increase the youth IRS, to increase the possibility of more candidates to Gate 65, to give their favorable vote. It is that the benches on the left, which fill very much the mouth of social sensibility, at the particular moment, fail in response to Portuguese youth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u74	A proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 220 is followed. a-A- Reference value of the minimum of existence. in this context, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to the minimum of existence yesterday the PS proposal was approved, in addition, with the favourable votes of the Liberal Initiative ; yesterday the proposal of the Liberal Initiative, which provided more € 43 per month, a true fortune, for more than 120,000 families. With regard to the transparency portal, the PS approved the NAP proposal yesterday, the PS led the IL proposal, which was only saved here by counsel in this plenary yesterday morning. In other words, a democracy in which budgetary vote negotiations count more than the substance of the proposals being discussed is not a very healthy democracy. But despite this, it is a democracy a thousand times better than that which would exist if it had not been on 25 November 45 years ago. If it weren't for November 25, we would have passed directly from a right dictatorship to a left dictatorship. If it weren't for November 25, April 25 wouldn't have the same meaning it has today. Therefore, it is essential to celebrate with enthusiasm the two dates, and the more resistance there is from the left benches and much more from the PS bench, the more resistance there is when there is on 25 November, the more important it is to celebrate these two dates with the same enthusiasm. That is why I am very sorry that today, on this day when 45 years are passed on 25 November, there is no time in this Parliament to point out this efemeride and that the only way to revive this memory is my intervention, because without memory a country is doomed to repeat the same mistakes. Long live November 25th! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u76	In order to intervene in the context of a proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 220. o -A — An addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons is registered with Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the NAP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government present here before and before moving to Article 220. o -A, I cannot but recall and greet the international day for the elimination of violence against women. The data in Portugal are, in fact, black figures that we have here... [[Congratulations from BE Members.]] ...and we can not, therefore, remember only the victims who daily try to survive, but also lament the more than 30 dead women in the hands of domestic violence. That is something that must call on all of us, elected and elected, precisely to combat this scourge, which continues to be urgent. For Article 220. the -A, here proposed, in the counseling, by the PSD, first of all, Mr. Member, when we heard him say that he was truly concerned about young people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u78	Me? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u79	... we follow this concern, we find it very strange that the PSD then does not follow proposals such as that presented by the NAP, precisely to ensure the extension of social support to young people in a university context, especially at the level of food. Like the ladies. You know, young people today also have numerous difficulties, aggravated by this health crisis. As far as secondary education is concerned, it is possible to guarantee what social support is, in particular, at the level of step A so that they do not have that charge, in university education such does not exist and would be fundamental. However, the PSD also had the opportunity to hand over the NAP in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u80	Isn't that with the government? That's with the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u81	... and did not follow him, which we are very strange because, in fact, there is a lack of state duty here, which they also have in this matter. With regard to the review of the IRS steps, the NAP presented here a proposal, which was rejected from left to right, in which it was intended to revise the steps precisely, taking into account what is a social injustice that remains today: there is a strong incidence between the 3. o and 6. the step, which is incomprehensible that is not reviewed. In Portugal, we cannot ignore that people receive an average order which is very short of the European Union, and therefore if we think of a single parent family who can receive what is the so-called 'Portuguese average order', which is in the order of 846 €, far from the 1400 € of the European Union, still has a very significant incidence of taxation. Let's just think about the 3rd. the step, on which, in clean terms, one person takes home 1000 €. And, therefore, in the days ahead and with the financial difficulties we have, we cannot continue to disregard the average order in relation to what is the national minimum order, and it is in fact urgent to review the steps of the IRS, so that it can in any way be considered to alleviate the tax burden of families. And the NAP did not take it out of its responsibility, too, to present measures that could balance the budget, particularly in what has been the perverse incentives to highly polluting activities for the country and at global level, such as navigation and aviation, aiming to end tax exemptions on oil products. However, these initiatives were rejected here, along with others who also sought to alleviate the tax burden of families, such as the question of VAT deduction and reduction in veterinary medical acts. Incomprehensibly, this possibility is still not placed on the European Union to allow this reduction in the tax burden, when we know that Portuguese families today have more than 50 % of their pets. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a long way to go if we want this to be a budget closer to people, of course. We cannot, however, resign ourselves at voting time from following proposals which are of the most basic social justice, and can also guarantee a financial balance so that this budget, although difficult, is not a budget of imbalance at the end of its accounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u82	A proposal, submitted by the Arrival, for the addition of Article 228, follows. o-B — Exemption from the single social rate on companies. Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, we ask this House to correct a historical inequality, the effort that restoration has made to sustain this country. The proposal for the exemption of the TSU (unique social rate), requested by the entire restoration sector, is of the most basic justice and we can make that correction today. Since we have not given them what we had promised, the reduction of the VAT rate, we can at least give them, at this difficult moment in their history, an exemption from the TSU, which they would ask to survive over the next two years. Almost 50 % of restaurants can open bankruptcy in the coming months. It is a number never seen in the history of Portugal — 50 %! And what we are presenting to them is a 'VATucher' that we do not know what effectiveness and a calculation of losses will be during the last year in which they were mostly closed. Five years ago, António Costa called the restaurant sector union and asked them for help: « Help me return Portugal to the dignity that Portugal deserves». They did not miss, they were there at the best time of the economic growth of our history, they were there when tourism gave everything so that Portugal would once again be an economically strong country. What now? Now that they need us, let's see their face! Today, this House has been one of the greatest manifestations of the history of this sector, probably. Thousands of people will come to Lisbon to tell this House that they do not forget them, that they want the exemption from TSU, that they want the reduction of the VAT rate, that they want real and concrete support for their activity. The historic responsibility of this House will be just one: we will give the hand to those who have been supporting this country over the last few years or we will turn their faces and say that they can fail at will, can send thousands to unemployment at will, that we do not want to know? Today is November 25, and on this day, as in no other day, we must be with those who have supported our economy over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u84	Sir, you have to finish. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u85	I will finish, Mr. President. May this House today correct this terrible injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u86	Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP now has the same floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is only to remind Mr André Ventura that he was the PSD when the PSD increased the VAT of restoration from 13 % to 23 %. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u88	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u89	And that the CFP presented a proposal in this Budget to supplement the reduction made in 2016, also at the initiative of the CFP, from 23 % to 13 % of VAT to also apply to beverages. This proposal has been rejected, but we will continue to beat ourselves because we believe that beverages should also be charged at 13 % to help the restoration sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u90	To conclude this point of discussion on the subject, Mr Under-Secretary-General for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sofia Matos, came here again to believe what the PSD has been saying, that this budget is not addressed to companies and that companies have no support. They forget only the simplified layoff, which saved thousands and thousands of jobs, the moratoriums, the lines of credit, and therefore make the table of all the initiatives. And they even make the table of what is proposed here, because they are very concerned about the exporting sector, but they are not even careful to recognize the tax incentive that is enshrined here, exactly for exporting companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to use the final seconds, because I do not have much time, on the minimum of existence and to remember only, Mr Duarte Alves — let me do so — that in 2018, when we reviewed the steps and the revision of the IRS, we have put a standard, which, in fact, I remember, has been negotiated between the Government and the CFP, to ensure that regardless of the value of the limit to which the minimum of existence would be raised, the limit of minimum monthly remuneration would always be safeguarded. And, therefore, the concern that you have put here is already in the law. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u92	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are going to vote again. Let us begin by voting on proposal 909 - C from the CDS-PP, to add an article 15. o -A — Exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u93	Mr President, I request only one minute to prepare the votes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u94	Please. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start voting again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u95	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u96	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u97	Mr President, with regard to this vote, I would like to ask for the breakdown which was already verified yesterday by the Commission. We can vote on the proposal in three sets: in the first set, paragraphs 1, 3, 5 and 6 ; in the second set, paragraphs 2, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12 and finally paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u98	Let us then vote on paragraphs 1, 3, 5 and 6 of the proposal of the CDS-PP to add Article 15. o -A — Exceptional scheme for the termination of tax benefits by compensation with tax and non-tax credits. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on paragraphs 2, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 12. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Finally, we vote on Article 15 ( 8 ). o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 621 - C, submitted by the ENP, on the addition of Article 196. o -A — Promoting the use of public transport by the student population / at school age. There are no requests for breakdown, so we will vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We moved on to Article 208. the proposal for a law — Public housing policies. The vote was taken on proposal 1005 - C, tabled by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Can we vote on all the numbers of the proposal together? [[Pause.]] The CFP requests that paragraphs 2 and 3 of the proposal be voted on first and then paragraph 4. We shall therefore vote on the proposal 1005 - C, submitted by the Czech Republic, in the part where I add paragraphs 2 and 3 to Article 208. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PAN, IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We are now voting on the same proposal 1005 - C from the Czech Republic, in the part in which we add paragraph 4 to Article 208. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PAN, IL and the non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 1118 - C, tabled by the PS, to add Article 219. o -A— Savings Plan Rescue Reform. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 1112 - C, tabled by the PS, to add Article 219. o-B — Guarantee of access to essential services. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1174 - C, submitted by the PSD, on the addition of Article 219. o-C — Export credit insurance. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstained from BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now turn to Article 220. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Since there are no requests for breakdown, we shall vote on proposal 1058 - C1, submitted by the PSD, jointly in the part in which it amends Article 2 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ). o-B of the IRS Code, as set out in Article 220. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We continue with the vote on proposal 1052 - C, tabled by the PS, to add an article 220. o -A — Reference value of the minimum of existence. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Therefore, it was approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u99	Mr President, I regret to disappoint you, but there is no unanimity. He got away.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u100	There is no unanimity, because the arrival voted abstention. The vote is therefore as follows: [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of CH.]] Mr. André Ventura, I do so much now in the office of President. I do not regret that there is no need. [[Laughing.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall continue with the vote on proposal 1058 - C1, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 220 is added. o -A — Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 848 - C of the Czech Republic, on the addition of Article 228. o-B — Exemption from the single social rate on companies. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the votes of the lawyers are over. Let us now make a change in the Bureau with regard to the ladies and gentlemen. Secretaries. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, in the speciality of the proposal for a State budget, we will start the speeches. Under Article 242. o — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits, for an intervention, has the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa, PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government has turned its back on more than 6000 workers in the free zone and around 120 million euros in tax revenue from the Autonomous Region of Madeira. But don't scare us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because this government, Budget after Budget, has systematically abandoned Madeirans. The companies of Madeira, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in an unfair way, they have also been forgotten and the government — see! — did not even take advantage of the European Union's opportunity to stimulate Madeira's economy and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, extending the tax benefits of the free zone beyond 2020. It's unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we are discussing this concrete proposal to do what the government has not done for five months. Mrs. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, here have the unique opportunity to resolve this situation with the urgency that it deserves. There's no time to waste. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u102	For an intervention under the same article, Mr Nuno Miguel Carvalho, of the PSD, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u103	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you and the Members. State Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. The phrase which Mr. Minister of Economics has said in times that «the lost fund today would be imposed tomorrow» is a clear sign that business should not be given, a clear sign that must not be given to the economy and the debate which several Members of the Socialist Party have repeatedly done with several entrepreneurs is exactly the opposite sign that should be given to entrepreneurs and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what businessmen need is that the words that you spoke in times when you talked about exports, economic growth and investment — which, in fact, are the responsibility of the entrepreneurs, because they were the real cracks of the economy and finance — now do not fall into a bag and that the taxes that the entrepreneurs paid in the past are not a fund lost today in the hands of the government. Therefore, the measures to support entrepreneurs are fundamental. The extension of measures to enable capital entry to have a deduction for those who make this effort with companies is a fundamental sign. Let's move from signal to action. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u104	We shall enter the scope of Article 243. o — Tax benefits for the conservation and reduction of energy consumption. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, proposal 274 - C, submitted by the Greens to add Article 243. o -A aims to create fiscal stimuli for the conservation and reduction of energy consumption at the level of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We present this proposal because today the benefits of reduced consumption and the guarantee of energy efficiency are widely recognized, fundamental objectives to achieve better environmental performance and also to combat the country's energy deficit. in this field, the business and productive sector has or may also have an important contribution to make and there is still much that can and should be done in order to achieve these objectives. thus, the incentives that are allocated in this area should not be seen as expenditure, but as a necessary and important investment, with a quite relevant return from the point of view of environmental and energy policy goals and performances, especially in times when combating climate change is more than an urgency. However, the fight against climate change also goes hand in hand with energy issues, particularly with regard to reducing consumption and ensuring energy efficiency. This Green proposal therefore has a very significant scope for the effort that must be made so that our country can ensure compliance with the commitments made at the international level, from then on in the Paris Agreement, so that it can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address, with the full sense of responsibility, the climate threat that we have ahead. It is now up to us to wait for the receptivity of the remaining banks with regard to this proposal, which no longer aims, as I said, to create the conditions for micro and small businesses to invest in reducing consumption and energy efficiency, while at the same time trying to contribute to combat the country's energy deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u106	We are now in the context of Article 247. o — Amendment to the Fiscal Code for Investment. Mrs Vera Braz of the PS, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the SIFIDE (Incentives System for Business R & D), a system over 20 years old, remains one of the most attractive schemes for the allocation of tax benefits to companies, betting on research and development. In 2019, this investment reached around EUR 1168 million, a growth of 50 % compared to the same period. The State Budget proposal for 2021 has clarified this system through the implementation of monitoring, verification and monitoring mechanisms, ensuring that the contributions made by investors are effectively made by investment funds and implemented by companies. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, with its proposal, aims to contribute to improving the provision of new standards against abuse because our aim is to make investors increasingly bet on research and development, as it is important that we have increasingly innovative and more competitive companies. They win companies and win the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u108	To intervene within the framework of Article 248. o — Extraordinary and transitional scheme to encourage the maintenance of jobs, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget is indeed marked by the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. And if this fight has a dimension in health, it is no less true that the economic and social dimension, especially for the protection of employment, is a priority. Support to companies, seeking to create conditions to maintain their productive base and thus to overcome this crisis and to contribute to economic recovery, have been a determinant of this government's action. But in the interests of social justice and equity, it would make no sense to provide such support without ensuring the maintenance of jobs. The same applies to tax incentives. These measures were decisive throughout 2020 and were essential to safeguard the social protection of workers, who were prevented from the exercise of their professional activity in order of the health authority, through a cross-sectional set of public support measures of an extraordinary and temporary nature for companies affected by the CVID-19, with a view to supporting the maintenance of jobs and mitigating business crisis situations. in this context, in the budget proposal, an extraordinary incentive scheme is created in order to ensure the maintenance of jobs in large companies that have profits by 2020. Business access to certain business tax incentives and State-guarantee credit lines will be conditional on maintaining the level of employment verified in October 2020, the date of transition of the simplified layoff measure to support the progressive recovery. This measure has great significance and leaves a clear signal of what are the priorities of this State budget: to preserve employment and support businesses, with fiscal justice and equity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u110	In order to intervene in the context of proposal 315 - C, the addition of Article 248. o -A— Enlargement of extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity, has the floor of Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, following the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic last March, the Government established a set of measures on the evolution of the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus, leading to the suspension of thousands of services and businesses. In view of the economic and social impacts, a set of measures and support has been established, even though it is short of the needs of workers and families, who have seen their incomes cut dramatically, from the start of those who have been placed in layoffs, not to mention the thousands of precariouss that have been fired from one day to the next. With regard to self-employed workers, many of whom were linked to culture, which virtually paralysed, extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity was manifestly insufficient, and The Greens presented proposals that met their expectations, increasing the announced support for values equal to or greater than the IAS (indicating social support). However, this measure, although approved, was finally vetoed by Mr President of the Republic. Extraordinary support for reducing the worker's economic activity would be extended, within the framework of the Supplementary Budget, to micro and small business managers, to individual entrepreneurs, as well as to members of the statutory bodies of foundations, associations or cooperatives. In other words, while the maximum ceiling for support for self-employed workers was the value of the national minimum wage, regardless of the basic remuneration, in the case of support for management partners, the limit set was three times that guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration. In addition to being fair to equate extraordinary support to the reduction of economic activity, it is also necessary to ensure that its time horizon is extended, i.e. from the current six months to at least one year. The last few weeks give the sign of the distress of thousands of micro and small entrepreneurs and independent workers. This Parliament knows how to interpret these feelings and adopt measures to mitigate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u112	We turn to Article 249. o — Programme to support and encourage consumption in the housing, culture and restoration sectors ( 'VATucher' ). Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government here present, of course, wanted to start by greeting and recalling the memory of 25 November. It should be this Parliament, precisely today, to evoke that same memory, to evoke this step of consolidation of democracy itself. On the other hand, a Democrat lives well with 25 April, as he does well with 25 November. on this date and in this session, it was important to evoke heroes of our democracy, such as Ramalho Eanes or Jaime Neves. [[Mr. BE Nelson Peralta's laughs.]] I know this deserves the smile on the left, but that smile on the left is a disrespect to the transition to the dictatorship that a radical left wanted to introduce in the country. Therefore, in this debate, to evoke that same date, to evoke that same importance, as is evident, is something that should be said about everyone. Speaking now of the State budget, the CDS presented a proposal, which has already been adopted in this budget, which has to do with public procurement, bringing more transparency to the entire procurement process, and which follows from an intervention by the President of the Court of Auditors here. This intervention was aimed at increasing transparency, more grounds for contracts concluded by public authorities. There should be a special basis for every mechanism being used, such as direct adjustments in the order of EUR 5 million. It is this transparency that is required, that is positive and that has been adopted precisely in this State budget. The Court of Auditors also approved the supervision of the same contracts, which is, of course, also positive. But it is important to remember a process that went wrong, which was the process of revising the Public Contracts Code itself. Let us remember that the Government has submitted a few prior consultations from €150 000 to more than €5 million. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u114	It was not the voice of the CDS, not the speech of Parliament, that would have happened. There was a reduction and it passed from such €150 000 not to more than €5 million, as was the government's will, but to about €1 million. This Parliament has also been able to put a stop to the design/construction models which penalized our companies so much. When we talk about public procurement, and an instrument such as the Public Contracts Code itself, we must not forget and we must recall what the government has brought to the discussion at the level of the national plan to combat corruption, a plan that — it is frightening! — leave out ministers, leave out of the city, leave out of the administrations of municipal enterprises, leave out of the political parties, leave out of the party financing. They are instruments such as the Public Contracts Code that can prevent corruption, hence its importance and the fact that the CDS wants to bring it into this same discussion. I leave a final note, a negative note, on the fact that this State budget does not bring less taxes and less tax burden on families and businesses. And you don't bring that tax burden down, why? Because there had to be concessions on the left! Today we know that the business between the Government, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block cost the country more than 1300 million euros. They are not accounts of the CDS, they are accounts submitted by the Government itself. That's why you can't lower taxes. So we look at the 2022 universe to think what the price to pay will be exactly for the Socialist Party to pass this Budget next year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u115	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we know, the pandemic crisis has a devastating economic and social impact. However, this devastating consequence is, in some ways, asymmetric depending on the sectors of activity, because some of them are more affected by the restrictions that exist to economic activity. There are certainly many sectors that are certainly going through a bit, but it is not difficult to allow the sectors of restoration, housing and culture to be particularly affected by the consequences of the limitations on economic activity and movement. Therefore, the Government has adopted a set of broadband measures, but also directed at these sectors in particular. But the Government has signed up to use the floor in this area exactly to speak on a point where you are. Members have always accused the government of lack of planning. One example of what we are looking at for the near future is the VATucher, a government initiative which aims to plan in time a support that should be given to these sectors in particular, precisely to promote an increase in demand. What these sectors have at present is lack of demand, which is framed by the limitations that exist to the circulation of the population. We hope that next year these limitations may be minor or even non-existent — that is what we all want — and at that time we have to bet on our internal demand, on the capacity of people, through their consumption, to stimulate the sectors of restoration, housing and culture. For this reason it is of particular importance to our income policy and therefore it is so important to protect family income, so important is the increase in national minimum wage, the increase in pensions, the recovery of salaries in the Public Administration. All of this is relevant, from the point of view of stimulating domestic demand, but we also have an additional stimulus, through tax, which, I repeat, we estimate is EUR 200 million — does not mean that it is even EUR 200 million, it may even be more. The ‘VATucher’ is a programme which aims to ensure that all VAT which is supported for 12 weeks by a certain consumer in these sectors — restoration, housing and culture — can then be used for 12 weeks in consumption in these sectors through a discount programme. In other words, what we want is that, in the first phase, by means of an instrument with which we are all familiar, e-invoice, when consuming in the establishments of these sectors — culture, housing and restoration — consumers can give their tax identification number. by doing so - this will allow the e-factoring platform to inform consumers of how much VAT was supported in these same sectors and what is their individual balance. At the end of the 12-week period of individual balance accumulation, there will be a 12-week period in which, through the combination of electronic means of payment, with simplicity, when consumers go to a restoration establishment and have the account to pay, when presenting their bank card, they will automatically seek 50 % of the account for paying the accumulated balance of VAT and the other 50 % for the balance of the bank account. But with this measure, what we are doing is to exclude, for three months, VAT supported in these sectors and to stimulate new consumption in these sectors, hence the option to be for a discount in each of the consumptions. Now, under normal conditions, in which Portuguese can go to restaurants, to shows and to enjoy accommodation, in conditions better than those in which we are now, at that time, we expect to be able to implement, in full, this program and that is why we are working, from now on. We are working on the application developments of the e-factory system, but we are also working on the development of means of payment. We therefore approved not a direct adjustment, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, but the opening of a public invitation to tender for the acquisition of electronic means of payment. And what is enshrined in the proposal for a waiver of the visa of the Court of Auditors is complemented by a proposal submitted by the PS Parliamentary Group in order to accept the recommendation of the President of the Court of Auditors to give himself 30 days to the Administration to deliver its contract for successive supervision. But, I repeat, we are not talking about a direct adjustment, we are talking about a public contest, although there is a strong trend in the doctrine that even considers this to be a type of contract that would even be excluded from the need to do so. But our choice was to make an international public contest. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the VATucher programme will certainly not be alpha and omega, but it is an absolutely important contribution to stimulating domestic demand and enhancing these sectors in particular. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u117	We are now going to the proposal for an addendum to Article 200. o -A— Change in the general waste management rate regime ( TGR ). Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, at a time when the country most needs robust and consequent environmental policies is when the government fails most. One of the sectors where this failure is most visible is the waste sector, where the government's passivity has condemned the country to increasing landfill deposits and caused the complaints of operators, systems and municipalities to be fired. And in the face of such non-compliance, what does the government have in store for us in the future? What strategy points to 2021? On the one hand, a hand full of nothing in terms of action, on the other, an increase to double the waste management rate. However, neither the families nor the Portuguese municipalities should be supported by the bans and incurries of this government. over the years, the government has not carried out investments that would allow the increase in the separation and recovery of waste, the fulfilment of environmental targets and the reduction of quantities to be deposited in landfill. The solution cannot therefore be an increase in TGR (residue management rate) to double without these steps being taken. The PSD requires that the Government fulfil its role and points to an intermediate step: a step-up of the increase in TGR up to 2025 so that the Government so far wishes, the conditions can be met so that authorities, systems and operators can make a better collection, sorting and treatment of waste, ensuring that what reaches a landfill is reduced. This is what the current reality imposes and we hope that the other parties will follow the PSD on this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u119	We now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 249. o -A — Increase in the participation of the paid port for regional and local periodical publications. Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u120	Mr President, I am sorry, but the Left Block had written, to intervene on a proposal for a previous amendment on the issue of waste management, Mr Nelson Peralta. There was a jump in the script—I do not understand why—I ask Mr Nelson Peralta first to give the floor and then to change the subject, because it is another matter, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u121	You then have the floor to speak on the previous proposal, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think this Parliament has had a great time here: the PSD, which says every day that private companies manage better, that the State should be smaller, that we should privatize the public sectors today, comes here « look at the sector of waste that is from the sectors that, in Portugal, has the worst results ». Well, that's right. And why does this sector have the worst results? Because the PSD and CDS, in the troika government, delivered the company EGF (Environment Global Facilities) to Mota-Engil, creating a large garbage monopoly in Portugal. In fact, it works bad and we needed the public sector. It is that these Mota-Engil companies survive at a high rate on the whole population, but above all on the inside, they survive with subsidies and public investments. So I think we should, in fact, change our lives. But there is a deeper problem in Portugal. It is that the waste management rate, what companies pay for the bad treatment of waste — landfill or burning — is quite low, is €11, when the European average is €80. What happened is that we were treated by the European Union as Europe's trash can. Within four years, the import of waste increased by 1700 %. Even distant countries, such as Nigeria, exported their garbage to Portugal. Well, we have an environmental problem here to solve. The cement industry in Portugal is also changing its ovens to import waste to burn. Again, an environmental problem in Portugal. What the Left Block proposes, in this regard, has presented a parliamentary assessment which will soon be discussed, is the amendment of these rules. From the outset, we believe that the waste management rate should go more to the authorities and to the populations and it should not be a huge waste stock for the waste sector, above all for the private sector, of Mota-Engil.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u123	We are now going to the proposal for an addendum to Article 249. o -A — Increase in the participation of the paid port for regional and local periodical publications. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us return first to the proposal for an addendum to Article 200. o -A— Change in the general waste management rate regime ( TGR ). Mr. Hugo Pires of the PS has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, waste production in Portugal has increased since 2013 above the European Union average. 75 % of the waste we produce are not subject to any type of valuation procedure. It is urgent to act on this matter, under the penalty of having an overburden in infrastructure, that we do not reach the goals to achieve carbonic neutrality, which we proposed to achieve in 2050, and that we leave a less sustainable country for future generations. The faster this reform becomes, the less waste will land, the less the fee the municipalities will pay, the lower the bill of water and the more sustainable and clean will be our country. There is no time to lose: we are at risk of failing to meet European targets, which represents an invoice of more than EUR 40 million per year. Next to this, the Spanish Government, still this week, has also proposed the increase of the waste rate to double our proposed amendment to this State budget, i.e. for about 40 €/tonne. The question I am asking is: what are we waiting for to move forward to a greener and more sustainable society? in this State budget, in addition to the PS proposal, there were two proposed amendments to this waste rate : one from the CFP, which proposes that everything be in the same, another from the PSD, which, in a very shy manner and similar to what it has done in various environmental interventions in this Chamber, says more or less, « well, until we agree with the government's trajectory, but we think that the speed of reform and the government's ambition are too high and therefore we think that this reform should be slower and that ambition must be a little bit smaller ». This is the PSD proposal to amend the waste management rate. And why does the PSD make this proposal? Because it is pressured by its camera presidents who, contrary to what they should have done, which was to invest in waste collection and treatment systems, have been spending...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u125	Look what you're going to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u126	... and making other investments probably in superfluous things — I know presidents of the PSD who invest in parties and parties. So they didn't do what they had to do! [[PSD protests.]] More, yesterday, we heard a PSD member here saying that this government did not pay due attention to green taxation. Well, today you have proof here that the PS is not afraid and that it has the ambition to make this a more sustainable, greener country and that, above all, it achieves the goals for carbon neutrality in 2050. Yesterday we heard a PSD member say that this Green Tax Government was kind of'melence' : green outside and red inside. I want to see what the PSD vote will be like, whether it will be ashamed or whether it will be like that image of a yellow melon, to give in to the interests of its camera presidents and those, above all, who have not done what they should have done in good time. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are careful and are looking forward to what the Left Block will do. I believe that the Left Block will be consistent with the way and with the proposed amendment you made last year, agreeing to the rise of the waste management rate. I am hopeful, but I am confident that the Left Block will be consistent in this matter and that it will not be consistent with the position it has had in this Budget, which is to stand by the right...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u127	That's the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u128	... to vote against the PS proposals. But let us be aware of this position and we still have the hope that the Left Block will be called to reason and that, above all, today, and with this proposal for the amendment of the Socialist Party, it will be very clear who the parties in this House are concerned about climate change, who are concerned about the environment and who think it is urgent to make this reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u129	I wonder if there are more entries for interventions in relation to the proposal for an addendum to Article 200. o -A. Not having come to the proposal for an addendum to Article 249. o -A — Increase in the participation of the paid port for regional and local periodical publications. Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias from the Left Block has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about several support to independent bookstores and small and medium-sized publishers, who have their lives threatened. Problems are not at present, but, as in other sectors, the pandemic has severely aggravated them. More than a business, we are talking about life projects for literature and culture. They are projects based on proximity, differentiation and deep knowledge and dedication to the craft. The migalhas planned for culture in the State Budget for 2021 and the absence of emergency measures to support these projects may mean their death sentence. It is to prevent this fatality from happening that we will vote in favour of the proposed amendments on this subject which are being debated. We are also concerned about the situation of the local and regional press which plays an indispensable role in the country's cultural and democratic life. The decrease in revenue, added to the effects of the pandemic, is having devastating effects in this sector. The year is coming to an end and only about 40% of the money from the promised institutional advertising came to the treasury of local and regional newspapers. at a time of crisis in the local and regional press, it is not understood how the government does not increase the funds for this sector in the State budget of 2021, nor does it present any new support measures. An important measure would be to recover the levels of participation of the payment burden, ensuring its national scope, which alone would allow more than duplicate publications annually circulated by postal means. That is why we will follow the amendments on this subject, because we believe that they are essential measures to ensure the sustainability of the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u131	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 249. o -A — The incentive scheme for economic activity on its own. Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In the face of a budget that ignores the difficulties of the business fabric and of the new unemployed, the PSD presents an unprecedented measure directed at children under 30 years of age and those over 50 years of age who may be unemployed. If today the Tax Authority knows everything that is invoiced, then it should be possible for a Category B worker to opt for a scheme that does not presume the costs it has or requires organised accounting. We want to facilitate self-employment in invoices up to €200 000. We want, on an extraordinary basis for the years 2021 to 2023, to promote the creation of self-employment and new jobs. We want to apply a reduced tax of 14, 5 %. We want the damage report between 2021 and 2023. We want the exemption from autonomous taxation in the case of essential costs. This government pushes citizens into debt as a solution. So the PSD, in the face of a bad budget, tries to close some of its failures. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u133	The proposal submitted by the PSD is followed by Article 249. o-B — Special payment scheme for IRC or VAT benefits in the year 2021. Mr. Alberto Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This State budget is so good, so good, that it has 1500 amendments and the overwhelming majority of them are on the side of those parties that will enable it. The PSD proposals are so bad, so bad, that the government announces measures that go against it. From the first moment that the PSD has alerted to the gruesome lack of support measures for companies in this Budget. Recognizing this gap, over the past few weeks, and having already handed over the Budget, the Government has been announcing several measures to support companies, by the voice of Mr. Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr. Minister for Finance and Mr. Prime Minister himself. With this PSD proposal, we want VAT and IRC to be paid in benefits by the end of 2021. This is an important measure of support for independent workers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, without affecting public accounts, to the extent that the tax is still paid during the year 2021. We are not asking for any forgiveness, nor any reduction in tax, just asking for more time to pay them, supporting the treasury of companies at this difficult time and releasing it for other commitments that have, in particular, the payment of wages. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u135	The floor is Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u136	Mr. President and Mr. Members: Mr Alberto Oliveira...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u137	Fonseca!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u138	I'm so sorry. I'm wrong many times in my names.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u139	Don't be wrong about the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u140	I can't cheat on numbers, but I can. Mr Fonseca, I have listened carefully to your statement and, as you propose, I would like to make a few points. It seems to me that the proposal put forward by the PSD is an announcement of what the government has been doing throughout this year, because the first decision we made on taxes was precisely to make a special scheme for the second quarter of the year to facilitate compliance with tax obligations. In fact, this regime was a success from the point of view of its application — within what may be the use of the word'success' in circumstances such as these, of course. This represented about EUR 1200 million of taxes which were deferred, on three or six months' benefit plans, and which ended in November. The end of these performance plans — I have said this several times in the Assembly of the Republic — represented only a default rate of about 3 %. This was therefore an effective measure to support the treasury of companies. And we did not hesitate to take similar action right now. We have done so in the Council of Ministers, still this weekend, with regard to quarterly VAT. It is that the performance plan adopted for the second quarter was the one that most companies joined — 67 000 companies joined! Moreover, as regards the VAT benefit plan, companies can already join — it has been active since yesterday — through the Finance Portal, and many have already done so. It is important, in a scenario of unforeseeableness like this, that we can adjust these decisions. That is to say, it is not appropriate until decisions are taken at this time that they need to be longer in time, because I am not sure if we do not need, at a certain time, for example, in the last quarter, to make three or six-month benefit plans and which go beyond December 31, which is what is in the PSD proposal. What I think must exist at this stage, Mr President, is flexibility in how we adjust the fiscal timetable next year. Mr President, I have made a relatively brief statement on the adjustment of the timetable for the reporting obligations of the coming months after hearing the Order of the Accountants. As far as payment obligations are concerned, we must be careful not to bind ourselves to solutions at the moment when they do not have enough flexibility to make them more effective. I therefore believe that the proposal put forward by the PSD has a correct principle. What I think is that we should, in its implementation, have greater flexibility to decide, quarter by quarter, what are the best decisions that are required. The history of the government's activities and decisions in this area leaves no doubt that we have never hesitated to launch this instrument to support the treasury of companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u141	Mr. Alberto Fonseca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u142	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State : I record the compliments you have made on the PSD proposal. What I said is true and what Mr. Secretary of State said is true, but the big difference, that is, what I did not say, is that the government's support ends this year of 2020 and there is no support planned for the next year of 2021. It is therefore essential to adopt this measure so that entrepreneurs can benefit from this extension of the deadline for payment of benefits. It will naturally be for the Government to make the measures more flexible if necessary during the year 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u144	We move on to the proposal by the CFP of Article 252. o -A— Extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP has put forward a proposal for the creation of an extraordinary contribution on the insurance sector, and we explain why. During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic raised the need for periods of confinement and a general reduction in the economic activity that eventually benefited the insurance sector. As an example of the car industry, we simply think that, during the last few months, with the periods of confinement, with the reduction of economic activity and telework, there was much less traffic in cars, which, of course, reduced the number of accidents and therefore the costs of insurers with the losses. At the same time, however, the value paid by consumers for the same insurance remained unchanged. Everyone who has a car continues to pay the same value for insurance, but the costs of insurers with the claims have significantly decreased in the face of traffic reduction, which raises questions until risk sharing. This is evidenced by the data of the first half of 2020 published by the ASF ( Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ). It should also be noted that, in response to the pandemic situation, it is not unpublished to create such extraordinary contributions on a sector that maintained revenue but saw its costs falling, with the aim of dealing with the additional effort of public resources. For example, in France, an exceptional contribution will be created on the insurance sector, which will generate an estimated revenue of EUR 1000 million by 2020 and EUR 500 million by 2021, in view of a situation in which it is estimated that this sector has saved EUR 10, EUR 1 million in expenditure. With this proposal, the CFP intends that these increases in the income of insurers, due to current circumstances, are in some way returned to Portuguese because of the creation of a contribution aimed at strengthening the financing of the National Health Service. Nothing justifies that in the face of the economic and social crisis as we are experiencing and facing the investment needs, particularly in the SNS, the increased profits of this sector remain untouchable. This is a proposal from the CFP that increases revenue and allows resources for other important measures, including measures to support sectors that are in greater difficulty, such as restoration, and those that we have presented in relation to the reduction of VAT on beverages. This is a measure that also contributes to greater fiscal justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u146	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 254. o — Additional solidarity on the banking sector. To this end, Mrs. Fabíola Cardoso, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members and Members : The Liberal Initiative presents two proposals, one to eliminate the additional solidarity on the banking sector and the other to eliminate the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry. There are proposals that clarify the waters and show the interests they serve. Proposals 885 - C and 360 - C of the Liberal Initiative show that. When a crisis hits us again at the door, after a decade when billions of euros were wasted in the banking system, the Liberal Initiative proposes cutting taxes to banks — it would be an anecdotal, if it were not an insult to the country and to the people who are now facing so many difficulties!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u149	But, not content with this, the Liberal Initiative presents a proposal that aims to cut taxes to the pharmaceutical industry, an industry that has made profits of millions. Another proposal to reduce government revenue for the benefit of large economic groups! These proposals illustrate the decisive choices of a party. in this particular case, the mask fell to the Liberal Initiative. After all, the great liberal tax revolution is even to lower the taxes to which you have already had a lot or to whom the country has hurt so much. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u150	We then proceed to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 261. o -A — Allowance for payment of fines in the emergency state period from 18 / 03 to 02 / 05 / 2020. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, from legs to air: this is how the Portuguese were left by reason of the pandemic, as was particularly evident during the period of the state of emergency which lasted from March 18 to May 2. As we know, in the midst of a turbulence, a cyclone of events, not all of them were able to fulfil their obligations in a timely manner. The government is also an example of this. in this context, we propose conditionally the exemption of the payment of fines applied during that period of the state of emergency to certain and certain taxable persons, because they have not fulfilled their tax obligations within the deadline, in particular in terms of IRS and IRC. This is an exception measure for a period which was also exceptional. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u152	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 261. o -A — Statement of proof of tax status. Mr Nuno Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: It is essential to improve business relations with the central government, both at the level of social security and at the level of finance. Let me remind you of the story, which I think is very useful, since, in an authentic campaign, a donkey ran a race with a Ferrari. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental thing is not to know whether it was the donkey or whether Ferrari arrived first, the fundamental thing was to allow everyone to travel at their speed. in the same way that this story served for the campaign, we hope that it will help the government to understand that the fundamental thing in their work is that the way to businesses can be made at the speed of each one. This is not a race to see who does more or who gets to arrive first, this is a race to do the best possible for the country and for the entrepreneurs. in this fundamental case, the debt that entrepreneurs can have with the tax administration is a gigantic weight that prevents them from accessing support. It's a brutal weight! All improvements that can be made so that entrepreneurs can pay as quickly and as quickly as possible will be a very important aid. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u154	The proposal submitted by the PSD is followed by Article 262. o -A — Support for the heritage of the Fundação Mata do Bussaco. Mr Rui Cruz, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : With this proposal, it is intended to give shape to the commitment made by Mr. Minister of Environment and Climate Action, which has assured us that by the end of the year the amendment to the fundamental regime of the Bussaco Forest is completed, since the financial conditionalities that have caused the limitations to the operation of the latter are long exceeded. I want to make it clear that it is urgent to preserve a magical space and that it is in the process of applying for the UNESCO heritage (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), which has a fabulous historic edified heritage and an extraordinary natural heritage that contains a unique biodiversity. All of this is at risk due to climate change and loss of revenue from visits due to the pandemic. The National Bus Plant imposes on us the special duty to preserve what exists and to preserve what is rare. It therefore seems appropriate and fair to approve a proposal with an inexpressive budgetary impact by this House but which, for Mata, appears essential and essential, from the outset to meet financial obligations with the candidatures already made to various European funds. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u156	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by the NAP in Article 263. o -A — Amendment to Ordinance No 17 / 2020 of 24 January defining the prices of health care and social support provided in integrated and outpatient care units. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We need to do more than what is proposed in the State Budget for 2021 in relation to the National Network of Integrated Continued Care. We are talking about a proposal that brings an equal percentage increase for all types of response, ignoring the specificities and idiosyncrasies of each of them. We understand that, more than a reinforcement, it is also necessary to take into account these specificities and the equal geographical distribution in order to combat regional asymmetries at the level of responses in this area so important for proximity care, but also for social cohesion itself. in this sense, the NAP presents this proposal and leaves the remaining parties the challenge to follow.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u158	The proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 183 is followed. o -A— Emergency strengthening of palliative beds and care teams, in order to ensure national coverage in both hospital and home services. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u159	Mr President, I had the idea that I would speak on a proposal concerning the National Network of Integrated Continuous Care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u160	Mrs Deputy, the inscription that the CDS-PP made, in the person of V. Exa, is associated with the proposal of an article 183. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u161	All right, Mr President, I would therefore like to take this inscription to use the 43 seconds I have to talk about continued care and palliative care following the NAP's intervention. It is little, but it is ironically proportional to the importance that the Government has devoted to these issues, which ultimately results in quite consonance. In essence, the Government promises an increase in the investment of the continuing care network, going beyond what is essential, which is its financial sustainability, since, since 2011, there is no price review worthy of that name, with the corresponding costs of these institutions increased through the minimum wage, the TSU ( single social rate) and even the COVID itself. For this reason, we present a proposal to update the newspapers of this network and the extraordinary support to COVID, just to ensure that users will continue to have answers and that the network will continue to exist. As recently in the Committee on Health, Mr President. Members of the Socialist Party have been particularly sensitive and available on this subject, I see no way of not honoring your word, approving here the CDS proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u162	We will move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 263. o -A — Amendment to Law No 98 / 97 of 26 August, i.e. an amendment to the Law of the Court of Auditors'organisation. Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD submits a proposal aimed at correcting a serious change in the 2020 Supplementary Budget, at the thresholds of the Court of Auditors'previous visa. Our proposal is to combat corruption. Today, we can have contracts that total the value of nearly EUR 1 million with the same supplier. These contracts are not subject to any prior control of legality and may one day be monitored. If we have 100 supplies of EUR 1 million each, we will have contracts amounting to EUR 100 million, more or less. The PSD intends, with its proposal, to strengthen the role of the Court of Auditors, to control public expenditure and to disclose on the Court's website all contracts which are exempt from prior visas under the scheme which was approved in July. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u164	We now move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 263. o-B — Amendment to the framework law of regulatory entities. Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regulatory entities act in the defence of public interests, protect consumer rights, promote competition and are not subject to the government's powers of protection. In the recent past, the PSD has made important contributions to true independence, by preventing the renewal of the executive positions of the entities, by submitting those identified to the CRESAP filter ( Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ) and to Parliament's prior scrutiny. But this socialist government is bad with independent regulators. We see the appointment of Minister Centeno for Banco de Portugal and the appointment of prominent socialist militants and government cabinet members for supervisory functions. [[Protests of PS Members.]] This is the government which, through capitulations, has prevented regulatory entities from doing important research and evaluation work due to lack of human resources. We therefore use this State budget to introduce a standard that frees regulatory entities from the possibility of hiring their technicians. A competitive economy that attracts investment, creates jobs and offers better prices to consumers is not compatible with the protection of regulatory entities, preventing the hiring of their technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u166	Let us now move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP of Article 264. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 47 / 2013 of 5 April approving the legal-laboration scheme for workers of the peripheral services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including workers of the official residences of the State. Mrs Alexandra Vieira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has been drawing attention to the state of the external peripheral services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For old problems, the Ministry announces intentions, but nothing concrete is seen. On the other hand, the Portuguese scattered around the world are desperate for an agenda that takes months to be realized; on the other hand, the chronic shortage of workers, the lack of career attractiveness and work overload do not help to solve the first problem. And not everything can be resolved by the dematerialization of procedures, nor by the outsourcing of services, which may not guarantee the necessary suitability. For us, it is already certain that the workers of the consular services and official residences of the Portuguese State have been systematically ignored by the guardianship, from the lack of protection in health and in the reform to the absence of updates of wage and exchange tables, to the careers that have lost attractiveness, to the point that some consulates are closed. Competition procedures are not allowed to be opened in a number of countries where wages are offered below the minimum wage and below the cost of living. This appears to be serious and urgent resolution. These workers represent the Portuguese State and must be treated with due dignity, being the essential contact link of the diaspora. Strengthening these services, social protection and reforms, remunerative, exchange rate and career value are just and urgent demands to which it is important to respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u168	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal tabled by the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, of Article 265. o -A — Addendum to Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March approving the State budget for 2020. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this government's inertia in the fight against real estate speculation remains: it has not yet changed the law of golden visas, it has not yet regulated the law of combating real estate harassment and the minimums have not yet been complied with. And now, when we have the biggest crisis that the shopkeeper has ever seen, the government is pushing with the belly the answers that should lower speculative incomes and that, abusively, keep the reintism that sinks the economy. Real estate is still one of the least affected sectors and once again inertia is grueling. There was no right-wing or PS availability to even discuss an extraordinary regime, presented by the Left Block in July, of reduction of income for stores, for retail, for restoration, for cases that recorded invoicing losses. I wanted the Government and the Socialist Party once again to do the minimums without assuming responsibility for the very high values that now sink the small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, the result is now in sight: a maximum crisis at our door, literally. The government, with revised responses, has added crisis to the crisis. Well, it's time to start fighting her! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u170	We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2011 of 28 November, subjecting the tenders and sub-launchs of the highways SCUT (without cost to the user) of the Algarve, the Beira Interior, the Northern Interior, the Beira Litoral and the Beira Alta, to the system of charging the toll rate to the users. You have the floor to Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a golden opportunity to be fair to the interior of the country and also to the Algarve. Now, no one else can offer any kind of excuse, because, from today on, it is or is not, or yes or soups, or we want to balance the territory or we don't want it. The PSD proposes a reduction in the toll rates of the ex-SCUT by 50 % for combustion vehicles and 75 % for electric cars. I speak not only because of the imperatives of territorial cohesion, which would, in fact, be reasons for remaining,... [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] ... but because, being Portuguese all the same, they can't be more equal than others and they can't be remembered and forgotten. The government has reduced — and very well — the price of social passes for people to have more mobility, but, as we all know, these measures, which cost EUR 180 million, had real impacts in Lisbon and Porto and the rest of the country felt absolutely nothing. [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] Therefore, in the other parts of the country, where there is no public transport, the Government, the political power and the State must encourage the use of individual transport. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, nothing more logical than not to punish the use of the car and thus promote the movement between regions of the interior, making them even more attractive and distant from the definition that they are feeling from day to day. We therefore call for this proposal to be accepted, so that, courageously, everyone—we must have the courage to take this step—we can truly make a difference. That is what we count on, and this is what we call on the other parliamentary groups. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u172	Mr. João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : When the former SCUTs were created, the so-called « cost-free ways for the user », without toll rates, were taken quite positive measures, constituting factors of territorial cohesion and of combating asymmetries in the regions where they were created, particularly in the Algarve, which have no alternative ways, and in the interior regions. Then came the troika and the PSD/CDS-PP government shifted a machada in the development of these regions, by imposing tolls in the Algarve and in the interior, with the support of the PS, now. Next came the PS governments, which did not have the political courage to end the gate of the tolls, which have only served to enrich private dealers. This State budget provides for more EUR 1218 million for these routes, in net charges, a value which ultimately goes from the State to the private dealers, in this case to the highways. Then there is no money for public investment, for companies, to respond to the social and economic emergency, for families, to fight the crisis. And the dealers, by the way, pay nothing with this crisis and continue to enrich. We must not forget — we have memory! — that the Prime Minister has promised to end the tolls inside and in the Algarve, but nothing has been accomplished. The word given, after all, was not an honest word. The government is moving towards ridiculous and petty discounts that are only used to deceive users and populations. What is required, in the opinion of the Left Block, is the elimination of the tolls. We will therefore vote in favour of the reduction, or elimination, of the value of the tolls, although the essential was even the elimination. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u174	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The State budget provides for 2021 payments to road PPPs (public-private partnerships), EUR 1574 million. This is what you are guaranteed you have to pay, according to the Budget. With the political options of the PSD and PS, the looting of state resources continues and populations continue to pay tolls scandalously. Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution does not go through discounts, no discounts, no quantity discounts, no discounts for the purchase of electric cars, what it is necessary to end this theft! Finish the tolls! This is what the PCP proposes: it ends with the tolls in the ancient SCUTs and ends with this theft to the populations. Who votes in favour? [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u176	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we are going to history. It was the PSD/CDS government and Dr. Rui Rio that always defended the user-payer principle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] PSD and CDS always argued that the tolls should be paid. It was the PSD/CDS government that placed the tolls inside. Yes, Mr. Carlos Peixoto, it was the government that the honourable Member supported that he defended the user-payer principle and put the tolls in operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u178	And what's the problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u179	Do we understand the PSD proposal and therefore have an important question: does the PSD argue that, first, it renegotiates and then lowers the value of the tolls or lowers that value regardless of the renegotiation? According to UTAO ( Technical Budget Support Unit ), this measure costs EUR 60 million per semester — EUR 60 million per semester! That is, we are talking about EUR 120 million a year. Dr. Rui Rio said in this House that this Budget wanted to give everything to everyone. Question: If renegotiation is not possible, how will the PSD solve this problem? How will the PSD solve this problem? It's just that it's not the Socialist Party that says it, it's UTAO. It's important to remember history. It was the Social Democratic Party that always defended the user-paying principle, was a former Secretary of State, Dr.Sérgio Monteiro, who, several times in this Assembly of the Republic, defended the existence of tolls inside. So assume your historical responsibilities! It was you who put to the inside and it was you who always voted in favour of it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] The Socialist Party, for the first time, contrary to what has been done in the past, has already presented a reduction measure — which can reach up to 25% — of the value of the tolls. Have responsibility! They assume your historical responsibility and do not say the opposite of what they have always said, because, here, Dr. Rui Rio, leader of the Social Democratic Party, has always defended the principle of user-payer...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u180	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u181	...and said this budget wanted to give everything to everyone. After all, the PSD is here presenting an irresponsible proposal, defending now what they have never defended in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of other banks—used a term that was grateful for being avoided, the term « you ». Mr. Secretary of State for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the proposal to reduce the value of tolls, we would like to appeal to parliamentary groups, especially the PSD, which meet their extraordinary cost. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not just talking about the annual cost. in a single decision, we made a decision of EUR 1500 million and we took it in a context where Portuguese public debt grew from 117 % to 135 %. The 1500 million correspond to 20 % or 25 % of the net charges with all the concessions we have for the next few decades. Therefore, this is a measure totally contrary to that which should be our priority right now. The PSD has been alerted to certain risks, in particular matters relating to government policy and decisions aimed at supporting companies. If we think of the risks inherent in the fact that today we have EUR 8500 million of guarantees provided in favour of financing to Portuguese companies and of EUR 40 billion in open because of the moratoriums — if we take today the decision to brutally reduce tolls, it would mean another cost of EUR 1500 million — we realize that the PSD measure is a popular measure, so we are against it. I also stress that the Government has presented a balanced proposal for the same motorways, which costs less than a tenth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u184	The intervention of Mr. Secretary of State prompted Mr. Carlos Peixoto to sign up. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u185	Mr. President and Mr. Members: We were already expecting the Socialist Party and the Government to come up with the pretext that the reduction of the value of the tolls has a significant cost. We don't ignore that! Mr Secretary of State and Mr Hugo Costa, come with this language—yes, it is a language—but there are worse things. Question : Is EUR 60 million in a year significant? It is! But the government needs to find budgetary alternatives within the framework of the budget to solve this problem and, if we do not find it this way, we have another solution to renegotiate with the concessionaires. There are always two options!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u186	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u187	However, I do not see the outraged, bewildered gentlemen with what is in the Budget: EUR 500 million for TAP! The TAP benefits Lisbon, but the reduction in the value of the tolls benefits the whole country, and you don't say anything. [[PSD applause.]] For example, the Government allows the New Bank to look for EUR 400 million this year. About that, he doesn't say anything and about the tolls he already says everything! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] More: you also say nothing about the fact that you will spend more than EUR 180 million on the programme of support for tariff reduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u188	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u189	They know that this benefits votes in Lisbon and Porto and therefore they say nothing. They don't really want to know about the interior of the country! We must be consistent, fair and think about territorial cohesion. That is why Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we ended up as we began: by calling for all parliamentary groups to look inside and be fair with these people, who really need to be helped, so that this territory does not define any more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u190	You have the floor again, Mr Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u191	Mr President: I reply to the PSD Member saying that the measure costs EUR 1500 million and the money has to come from somewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u192	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u193	And that's why the PSD tells us to negotiate with the dealers. They put the 1500 million backpack behind us and they tell us « the concessionaires that earn the concession deadline ». We didn't throw the problems forward. Financial problems need to be tackled ahead of time and now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u194	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u195	Mr President, let me tell you that, in the context of the European discussions on debt sustainability, there is a chart that is being shown to all countries and that has to do with countries that are investing more in permanent expenditure not related to the fight against the crisis caused by COVID. And all the expenditure you mentioned, particularly those of the TAP, has to do with the crisis caused by the COVID. In Europe, the finger will be pointed at countries that make permanent expenditure unwarrantedly increase — Portugal owes 135 % of GDP — which is not related to COVID. We do not agree with these solutions that we will negotiate with the concessionaires so that they can have a longer life, because it means that we will ultimately increase the multiannual financial burden. We do not forget Dr. Rui Rio's statements on the polluter-user principle and, moreover, we should be consistent and reach the end of payments to these concessions quickly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u196	We will move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD of Article 208. Article 10 is amended. the Act No. 4 - C / 2020, an exceptional regime for long-term situations in the payment of income in the context of the pandemic. Mrs. Márcia Passos has a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Normally bad students are good at copying, but the government, in addition to bad students, also cannot copy, because it did not present any proposal in the State budget, for commercial incomes and now copied the PSD proposals, giving them a touch of authoritarianism and imposing the same solution. Mrs. Members, we cannot continue to tell the tenants of shops, commerce and restaurants that have to pay the same income without any support from the government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot tell the gentlemen who need these incomes to feed their families, who have to forgive or defer over time without any support from the government. The PSD proposals for commercial income all involve, in a distribution of sacrifices, and involve all, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, that's all. It is involving lords, it is involving renters and it is involving the state. Who pays less, must pay less. Whoever reduces income, as the landlord may do, must have the support of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u198	We have proposed this for months and you voted against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u199	The measures cannot be equal, Mr. Members, and must aim to balance and not create more problems. The government can even copy, but it must learn at least the lesson. And if, with this crisis so serious that we live, with what people are suffering, this government has not yet learned the lesson, then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even with private explanations, go there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u200	Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of income is probably the one that has led the government most to the zigzags we know. It was important that today Mr. Secretary of State could clarify what was said last week by Mr. Prime Minister, i.e. that we will know the measures to support commercial income, that the sector is being severely penalized and that strong measures will be taken. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you the following: can you, consciously, say that the measures brought here to support commercial incomes are strong and save the sector? Can you tell those thousands of people who are going to be out there today at 15 hours and 30 minutes to criticize these measures that gave their best and best of government, at a time when restoration can't pay rents, in which trade can't pay rents, in which event companies can't pay rents, and many sectors, in fact, don't work since March but incomes continue to be asked? Is this what the government has to give to the sector? Are these the measures so strong and so intense, comparing with what is happening in Europe? Look at the examples that you like to give: in Germany, Austria, France and Sweden - see what these countries have done in relation to commercial incomes and see what we are giving to people. Mr Secretary of State, I hope that you will be able to justify what the Government here brings to people who will have to close doors and send thousands of employees to unemployment. There is one thing I know: Mr. Prime Minister said that these measures prided us in Europe, but I think we would be ashamed, and much, if we were the country that most failures had because of such measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u202	We are now going to move on to the proposal submitted by the CFP of Article 139. o -A— Extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: If the constitutional right to housing has long been a central requirement, now, with the current situation, this requirement becomes even more urgent and undisturbed. The budget has to give concrete answers to the problems that are put in place and it is in this sense that the CFP presents its proposals. We propose an exceptional income payment scheme, reducing the value of income in situations of loss of income, with due compensation to landlords, but without subsidizing speculative income. We propose the protection of tenants also in an extraordinary regime, which must have the continuity assured in 2021, with the suspension of expiry, the opposition to the renewal of contracts, etc. , defending the right to housing. We propose a strengthening of funds in support of young people's access to housing by transferring an amount of EUR 25 million to finance the Porta 65 Youth programme. We propose the defence and mobilization of public property, of all buildings with suitable housing conditions, which should not be sold because they are needed to meet existing needs. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to housing is to comply, the Constitution of April is to comply. The proposals of the CFP are approved, responding to the problems that are created. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u204	Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Protection, João Torres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has always said two things about the crisis, which it is important to underline today: the first is that this pandemic crisis would have economic, social, singular and complex impacts on our economic fabric; the second is that, depending on the impact of the public health crisis on our business fabric, we would — as we have done so far and continue to do — present new measures to mitigate the economic impacts of this crisis in a continuous and evolutionary manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was mentioned here that the government, or a certain parliamentary group, was either 'good' or 'bad student' and that 'copyed' or 'did not copy'. What I know is that the Government does not accept lessons from the PSD Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister had the opportunity last Saturday to announce the Government's willingness to submit a bill to the Assembly of the Republic on the subject of non-residential rent. We do not disregard the impact of the lease on a large set of establishments in the most diverse sectors. And precisely because we have not minimized this problem, we have created, during 2020, a set of moratoriums with the approval of this House, which, in the case of establishments which have been closed since March, in force, today and until the end of the year. The Government's willingness to submit a bill to the Assembly of the Republic on this issue is absolutely unequivocal in order to share the effort between the State, the owners and the tenants. The issue of renting is sensitive and no Member State of the European Union was empowered to deal with it, particularly in a pandemic situation and with the lack of knowledge about future borders. However, this is a subject that deserves the highest sensitivity on the part of the government, just as it deserves our understanding of the very difficult situation that some sectors are going through, in particular the sector of restoration. Let me say, therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, as already announced, will even open the applications for the APOIAR.PT programme today, which has two modalities — they are cumulative in the case of restoration — because they relate to support for billing breaks in the first three quarters of 2020, compared to 2019, with limits of €7500 for microenterprises and €40 000 for small enterprises, and a 50% increase in ceilings for companies that have been closed since March. At the same time, in a cumulative way — I repeat, cumulative — for the restoration, the support of the APOYAR RESTAURATION programme has been regulated since yesterday, which provides for mitigating the economic impact of the most significant restrictions that have been imposed on the last two weekends. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We deserve to understand what these sectors are going through, and the government is not, as it has not been and will not be, cross-arms in relation to the problems they face. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u206	You now have the floor of Mrs Marcia Passos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr. Secretary of State, do you know why the government is bad students? It's because he doesn't really want to learn, not the good lessons, not the bad ones. This, Mr. Secretary of State, is a good lesson. The crisis is today! It has come since March and today it is necessary to act! Now, the government has not brought any action. In fact, we have been waiting for a regulation from August for a credit line created by Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, which has not yet gone out, as it would do, which has not yet been released. So, it's not thinking about the future, it's thinking now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u209	Now, damage must be shared, sacrifice must be shared, and the State must help. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u210	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Secretary of State, I ask you a very simple and very direct question, hoping that you can finally answer this sector today. Is the government or not available for a reduction in the value of income due to the bankruptcy of the invoice? When the government had to decide on the support, what did it say? He said: « We will support invoices». So, it's normal that income support is also according to the billing. If you have chosen this year's billing as a ridiculous measure, then the income reduction can also be taken into account with the billing reductions. It is a very simple question which I would like you to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u212	Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ventura, allow me to clarify this. Recently, I mentioned, but perhaps I will not have been clear, the APOIR.PT Programme. This programme has two modalities: the first, more significant, extended to a wide range of economic activities and also to restoration, provides for the comparison of the first three quarters of 2020 turnover with the same period of 2019 ; the second, more specific but cumulative for restoration, provides for a mechanism for comparison of the last two weekends, compared to the first 44 weekends of 2020. But, Mr, we are not only talking about the comparison compared to 2020, because the most significant portion of this support, which is extended to a wide range of economic activities, went out yesterday, precisely one door to regulation, compared the first three quarters of 2020 with the first three quarters of 2019, to micro and small enterprises. I would also like to point out, Mr President, that the Government has announced that it is available to present to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for a law on the issue of non-residential renting, which takes into account the division of effort between the State, the owners and the tenants and which may, in a more viable and feasible way, have a relationship with the bankruptcy of invoicing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u215	I cannot therefore assure you that the best model — in fact, I have some doubts — is a total linearity in the case of renting street, commercial, with invoice breaks, but I can possibly consider one or more levels in this matter. So we're not closing the door to that. Mrs Marcia Passos, I would like to say the following: the Government has not yet submitted the proposal. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Therefore, she said that the PS Parliamentary Group did not bring any proposals here and at the same time said that the government copied the PSD. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Unless the honourable Member makes politics with newspaper titles, it seems to me, frankly, that is being rushed in the assessment of this genuine availability of the government, which has deep understanding for the impact of this matter on economic operators. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u216	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u217	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u218	Mr President, I tried to sign up several times to ask Mr. Secretary of State a question, but that was not possible because the two telephones of the Bureau were busy. I would therefore like to register now orally, since I have not been able to do so before.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u219	You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary of State, record the time you lost, and also the patience, which is very necessary, to try to explain to a Member who was in the PSD when the PSD increased the VAT of restoration to 23 % — and is therefore now an opportunist in this debate — and who was against the fall in VAT of restoration when this House fell to 13 %. Therefore, the time that you have lost with this opportunism shows a patience that I praise you but that I find absolutely unnecessary. Mr Secretary of State, I have two questions to ask you — until this afternoon we will have, at the door of the Assembly of the Republic, very legitimately, the representatives of the restoration sector saying that they lack support — about the support that the Government has not given. With regard to non-residential income, commercial income, what Mr. Secretary of State says is: 'The government has already submitted a bill'. But any solution on the table is for next year, when the crisis is knocking on the door of these companies now. This is the fundamental problem. The time variable here is not a smaller variable. And on that, the government has lost no time unnecessarily. On the second measure you referred to, I will quote you: « We are available to compensate companies for these last two weekends, with the average of the previous 44 weekends ». Now, Mr. Secretary of State, in the middle of these 44 weekends there was an emergency state and the companies saw a brutal reduction in their activity. Now that they were taking up the activity—so it is not comparable to the period in which they were closed—they have to close. I do not question the measures taken with regard to public health, which I wonder why the government did not anticipate these measures. Therefore, it could have provided for a package of support for these companies which was not calculated on the basis of the average of the 44 preceding weeks, because by doing so, it invites these companies to close and fail.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u221	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u222	And that is why we cannot admit, because these are jobs and economic activity, which is important today and for the future of the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u223	Again, Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense, João Torres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I thank you for your speech, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. I must tell you that I believe that it is our obligation to exhaust patience — even in circumstances where we might wish not to do so — so that the measures can be explained as strictly as possible. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] So we always do this, and I always do it, with deep respect for democratic institutions, as you know. Mr Deputy, with regard to the APOIR.PT Programme, the most significant and representative parcel is the first way for which restoration is eligible, as other economic activities are eligible. Therefore, I accept and understand the content of your intervention and criticism, but I would like to tell you that the most significant portion of this support is already a correlation between the invoicing losses of the first three quarters of 2020 compared to the same period of 2019. And we have to consider the support of the government, which has been and will continue to be continuous and evolutionary, because they are not exhausted from this measure for which applications begin today. We are talking about more than 750 million euros in total lost, a great demand for the different sectors that today, as you mentioned here, and I am accompanying them, will manifest themselves legitimately. This support must also be considered in the light of other support which is in force and the provision for restoration. Not wanting to be exhaustive, but allowing me to mention this: the support or the mechanism to support the progressive resumption of activity was revised in October, just to improve the conditions of potentially break-in establishments of more than 75 %, but also to create a new step for breaks between 25 % and 40 %, which could be very useful for the establishments of trade or restoration that are currently experiencing difficulties that we obviously do not disregard. Therefore, Mr President, I think that all the support needs to be considered, and not just the support alone, which I have specifically referred to. I would also like to point out what I already had the opportunity to say today. The Government has followed economic measures to support our business fabric in a continuous and evolutionary way. Do it in the past, you are doing it and you will continue to do it in the future, in line with your responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u225	We move on to the proposal submitted by the IL of Article 265. o-N — Amendment to Law No 9 / 91 of 9 April on the Statute of the Ombudsman. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before talking about it, I would just like to tell Mrs Fabíola Cardoso that she is no longer in the Chamber, but I ask that her comrades transmit, that I agree with you. The way we propose things in the Budget says a lot about the essence of the parties. So we have made dozens of proposals to reduce taxes, because, yes, our essence is that we want there to be fewer taxes for everyone. But not only the budget proposals, but also the way in which the political debate takes place say a lot about the essence of the parties. And when the honourable Member chooses to ignore all these proposals and focuses on two and forgets to say that these two were supposed to be temporary and extraordinary, this says a lot about the essence of the Left Block, which lies and distorts for political gain and shows a deep hatred for everything that is private, forgetting that there are millions of Portuguese who do not depend on any state and are, too, private. Why does this matter? It is that those who use lies and hatred for political gain lose authority to criticize those who do the same; they are flour from the same bag. For Article 265. yesterday, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance ( COF ), the establishment of the animal supplier was approved. We agree, so we voted in favour. From the moment that animals are recognized as having rights, it makes sense to have mechanisms and institutions that safeguard those rights. That was yesterday. Today evening, in the same Committee on Budgets and Finance, our proposal will be voted on to create a child provider, more specifically an attached provider in the Ombudsman's Office, which deals exclusively with the rights of children. And who is better than the Ombudsman, who has given evidence of being an independent, capable entity, and who only does not do so because this Parliament has repeatedly refused resources for this to happen? I would therefore like to see if the parties that voted in favour of the creation of the animal supplier — and the others, now — will argue that children are not entitled to rights or have less rights than animals, voting against this proposal. And if you are going to argue now that important issues—such as abuse, bullying, child labour, injustice in social benefits, conflicts between parents that prevent them from exercising all their rights—are not such important themes, can you argue that these rights are smaller than those of animals? Can you argue that these are not important issues? So, in the afternoon, they can only vote in favour of this proposal. It would be a scandal if they didn't. The freedom and defense of each one's freedom begin with respect for his or her individuality from childhood. They approve the creation of the child's provider.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u227	We are now entering the discussion of Article 7. o — Budget transfers. First of all, Mr Diogo León, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u228	Mr. President, various members of the Government, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, I begin by greeting, humbly, the high example we receive, in terms of fairness and dignity, personified by those who bear the most heavy daily sacrifices by the homeland, the disabled of the Armed Forces. Quoting the ethics motto of the former President of the Assembly of the Republic, Dr. Jaime Gama, these must be treated by the State as the exception of the exceptions. And therefore the Government has the duty to ensure, as it has already done, that the situation of delay in the delivery of prostheses and other equipment, which has occurred this exceptional year of the pandemic — and that, fortunately, it is now overcome and resolved — is not a single case, because unfortunately, it has already occurred in other years with other governments, it will not be repeated in the future, in particular in 2021. Therefore, consistently, we support the proposal of the CFP to amend this State budget, which directly allocates EUR 3, EUR 8 million to the Military Laboratory for Prosthetics and other products supporting military disabled people, eliminating the role of the IASFA (Instituto de Action Social das Forces Armadas, I. P.) as an intermediary, thus enabling and increasing the quality of life of these most decent citizens. Another important proposal of the CFP that deserves the attention of the Socialist Party is the proposal that provides the necessary funds, in a total of EUR 2, 5 million, the effective establishment of the National Laboratory for Medicine, transforming qualitatively and extending the mission of the Military Laboratory for Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals. No one can ignore that the Military Laboratory has a hundred-year heritage that honours the Army and the Country and that cannot be lost in this organic transformation, as well as a set of pharmaceutical officers and other specialized military, with scientific excellence, logistical capacity and military brio, and that, as an institution tested in the fight against the pandemic, has only given evidence of its great capacity, versatility, adaptation and tireless public service, in the production and distribution of disinfectant products, drugs and other equipment, and still in its most relevant centralizing quality, as a strategic reserve of medicines and devices. So that, in the future, we can also, and once and for all, strengthen and centralize investment in the absolutely strategic area of research, production and supply of medicines for the use of the National Health Service and for the country, the Socialist Party will support this proposal, sure that these our military will continue to do their best to safeguard and defend national sovereignty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u229	Mrs Monica Quintela of the PSD now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, never — never, not even in the times of the troika! — since the Directorate-General for Resettlement and Prison Services has been set up, its budget has been as low as it is now presented. The government cuts 64 million in the budget for the operation of the entire prison system; it seems it wants to put the rest of the prisoners out here. This body already operates within its limits and most prison establishments are at the level of the third world countries. Social reintegration is not working. Now imagine what this year is a diamond of this caliber in its budget. It's the total disqualification! In order to ensure at least one budget equal to this year — and which will not, however, arrive — the PSD proposes to strengthen the Directorate-General's funds through the transfer of own revenue from the Institute of Registers and Notary up to the limit of EUR 64, EUR 2 million missing. The adoption of this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is crucial for the implementation of criminal policies and for safeguarding and ensuring social peace. Question : Who does the prison system give us back at the end of the sentence? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u231	Now you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the strengthening of the health equipment network is a priority and an irrevocable imperative for this parliamentary group and for the government. The year 2021 will be another year of investment, planning and implementation, despite being a demanding economic year and despite the pandemic. The concern we have is that the works are done and reach the populations, who legitimately aspire to the same, either in the port, with St. John, or in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, with the hospitals of the Seixal, Sintra and Lisboa Oriental, either in Funchal, Alentejo or Algarve. We also said in this House, both the Government and this parliamentary group, that we would approve proposals that would contribute to the strengthening of the network and that would be part of an effective planning. Therefore, the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party, which we have approved, with the transfer of funds from the Ministry of Health to the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) of Lisbon, worth EUR 2, 5 million, for the review of the project of architecture and project of execution of a new and so-called IPO building and ambulatory, estimated at EUR 57, EUR 5 million, deserves our welcome, because it was part of our planning and willingness to implement this important building. In fact, it meets the trajectory that we have followed in the last five years, of successive investment, of improvement and modernization of the National Health Service, and of investment also, always, in public health. This work, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be an added value for the capacity and activity of the Lisbon IPO, where thousands of cancer patients benefit from high technical standards every day, benefit from innovation of excellence, from humanizing practices, because, as Miguel Torga says, hope never despairs. And in the IPO this hope is vital every day. May all of us be an active part of that hope. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u233	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members of this State Budget will certainly say that the parties on our right to parliament are very concerned about the National Health Service and the defense of the public health of the Portuguese. But what we all already know and that we have been seeing over the years when these parties were government is that this concern is focused on the times when they are opposed. Unfortunately for all of us, unfortunately for the Portuguese, when the parties on our right parliament are government, the health of the Portuguese and public health are always in the background. This is not what has happened and is not what has happened over the past five years of the governance of the Socialist Party, with more public investment, with more investment in health professionals and with a reversal of the investment path that was to be followed by the Government of the PSD and the CDS. Now, this investment in the National Health Service also feels in the Setúbal district, particularly in the Town Hall of Setúbal. In addition to those who are the three health centres that are planned to be built in this territory, this government has also taken as priority the expansion of the Hospital de São Bernardo. This is a fundamental work for the municipality and for the district of Setúbal, which consists of the proposed State Budget for 2021 and also of the investment plan for the health area. So that there is no doubt, the Socialist Party will not imperil this proposal, because what we really want this work to be done, that the extension of the Hospital de São Bernardo be done and that users of the Town Council of Setúbal and the neighbouring municipalities can access this work, which is so important in terms of health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u235	Mrs Clarisse Campos from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the fishing activity assumes an important identity of the communities that over the years have developed in the estuary of the river Tejo, with particular relevance to the localities positioned at its mouth, as is the case of Trafaria, in the municipality of Almada. It recognises the Socialist Party that the economic and social sustainability of the sector is guaranteed only by investing in modernising infrastructure and equipment, improving the safety conditions of workers and hygiene and food safety of fishery products. We stress the strong commitment that our Government has made in recent years in the economy of the sea, more specifically in improving the conditions of fishing ports at national level. That is why the PS recognises the importance of this PCP proposal, in order to pursue the construction of a fishing port with adequate conditions in the Trafaria, which can be associated with the new lot that Docapesca will inaugurate shortly, bringing a new centrality to the site and simultaneously creating better sanitary and working conditions for the entire fishing community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u237	Mrs. Joana Lima, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State Budget Bill for 2021 reaffirms health and reaffirms the SNS as political priorities in our country. It is a Budget that affects the improvement of the quality of the SNS, it is a Budget that has the basis of combating the pandemic and its consequences, it is a Budget that does not forget investments in the SNS infrastructures, it is a Budget that gives continuity to the improvement of the SNS network, it is a Budget that protects the Portuguese. The proposal we now appreciate, from the PCP, which is based on the transfer of EUR 7 million to the continuation of the work of the Centre Hospitalar de Póvoa de Varzim / Vila do Conde, has our support and agreement, because this work process started in the previous year and the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party did not leave behind this work so important for that region. Others, unfortunately, at other times, did not want to know. But we also do not leave behind the great work of the Hospital Center of São João, of the new pediatric wing, called "Jeanozinho". What did the PS do when he entered the government? What have you received about this work? He got a file, a hand full of nothing and a hand full of the same thing. And what did the PS do? He did the job! The work is on the ground, the work is ahead and the PS and its parliamentary group, in this House, have contributed much so that today we can have that work almost completed. So we also follow this proposal, because it meets the investment policy in the SNS that this government is carrying out. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, voting against the budget is against a stronger and better equipped SNS; voting against the State budget is against the quality of the services in the SNS ; voting against the State budget is against the completion of the work of the new pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João ; voting against the State budget is against the works at the Hospital Center of Póvoa Varzim / Vila do Conde ; voting against the State budget is against a region that is being whipped by the pandemic and which needs more and more support and investments for health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u239	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this intervention by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group is about the residence of the Rio Major Higher Sports School. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, as it has always been, next to the solution to build the residence of the Rio Major Sports School. I would like to remind you that this residence has always been planned in the initial project and that it was the Government of the Socialist Party, in 1997, which created the Rio Major Sports School. I would like to remind you that it was the governments of the Socialist Party that provided the construction of the Rio Major Higher Sports School, the current infrastructures. Therefore, the Socialist Party, realizing that it is a school with more than 1000 students, realizing that it has more than 200 employees and teachers, realizing the importance of combating dropout and school failure, which is so loud in that school, is next to the solution and, realizing the commitment that Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education put in the State Budget, will approve the proposals concerning the Rio Major Sports School. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u241	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u242	Mr President, our intervention is on the strengthening of funds for the Constitutional Court, particularly for the Transparency Entity. We have no proposals in this area, so we refer to proposals from other parliamentary groups, although they do not know whether or not they want to be presented. The PS bench seems to have registered Members, so it would make sense for our intervention to take place after the submission of these proposals, if the Bureau so believes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u243	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 1. the proposal for a law—Object.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u244	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u245	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u246	Mr President, I would like to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u247	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u248	Mr President, we believe that the ideal was that, since there was a subject that was self-sustained, such as the issue of transparency, we could begin by discussing this subject with the proposals and with the indications of the honourable Members. Members of the various political forces and, as tradition is, and, from our point of view, good tradition, the discussion of Article 1. the end of the debate, thus closing the debate in the specialty. In other words, our proposal is that the issues of transparency be discussed first and then Article 1. the, closing the debate in the specialty. Of course we leave to the criteria of the Bureau, but this is our suggestion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u249	Mr President, I thank you, but this problem is resolved since transparency has been incorporated into the 'Object' and we will therefore start the last point with the appreciation of Article 1. o — Subject matter. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u250	Mr President, I think the suggestion that has been made ultimately corresponds to what was in the script. I would like to stress the importance of the subjects that we will discuss below. As it is known in the previous legislation, a very significant set of reforms on the operation, monitoring and delivery of returns, heritage and interests of political office holders has been introduced. There has been a very profound reform which has broadened the subjective scope of these declarations, which has improved and detailed what must be the subject of declaration, which has formed a single declaration of these matters, but which has also enabled the creation of the Transparency Entity to function with the Constitutional Court and which would take greater ease in both the disclosure and the monitoring of the same matter. One of the things that is, in fact, pending and which will mean a significant increase in the scope of these matters is the possibility of electronic submission and the faster availability of this information, in the future, from the creation of the Entity. Already in last year's budget we had the opportunity to guarantee the money so that the Constitutional Court could allocate to the Transparency Entity the funds necessary at the beginning of its activity. However, there remains a question—without prejudice to the budgetary question, which I shall already go to, which is paramount, and which also needs to be speeded up and resolved at this headquarters, which is the one which is bound by the guarantee, as soon as possible, of a headquarters for the operation of the Transparency Entity. The option taken in the legislation in 2019 was to determine that it would reside in a place preferably outside the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and therefore, first of all, the need to identify the headquarters, because almost everything else at the level of the installation of the Entity depends on the identification of the site. In other words, it is not a question of knowing what the building is in concrete terms, but so that the Entity, strictly speaking, can proceed to competitive procedures for recruitment of staff, it is essential to know in which city of the country it will be installed because of this, of course, it will condition the conditions of the competition and also the presentation of potential stakeholders to collaborate with it. in this sense, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party proposes that, until the end of the first quarter of 2021, the identification of which city, from which place to headquarters, be guaranteed. In strict terms, it is desirable that it be even sooner than that, but it must be recognized that this place should be identified as soon as possible. It also seems to us that it is important to give a deadline to the Court itself to appoint the members of the Entity. The appointment of the members of the Entity is not just a matter of detail. at this time, it is overloading the Court's own judges the decision for which it is essential that the first composition of the Entity be involved and also in the decision-making on how to install the Entity, how to prepare for the collection of declarations which, in the first autonomous elections to be held after the entry into force of this matter, will entail a very substantial number of declarations to be processed by the Court. This deadline should therefore also be articulated and laid down in the law. As I said, there is then a strictly budgetary issue, which concerns the strengthening of the funds needed to enable the Entity to function in the coming year of 2021. I believe that, following the parliamentary debate, the parties that put forward proposals, i.e. the PS, the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the NAP — despite the proposal of the Liberal Initiative there is a deviation of €4 that should be corrected on the maps — all propose the same reinforcement, which was the one that the Court of Auditors reported as necessary, either to ensure these tasks for the establishment of the Entity or to ensure its own financing. Therefore, there is a particularly broad consensus that aims to ensure that the Entity works, that it fulfills and performs its mission and, above all, that the Republic, the parties, the institutions agree and access the legitimate expectations of the citizens who will have the Entity to function, that it can carry out its mission and that it itself, directly, assumes the task of monitoring and monitoring the declarations, since, despite the fact that the Public Prosecutor is playing the role that the law recognizes today, the philosophy adopted is different, implies more work and, of course, the need to allocate the necessary resources. in this sense, it seems to us that the desirable parliamentary consensus will meet and that the fundamental issues for the entry into operation of the Transparency Entity can finally be resolved at this headquarters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u251	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members of this consensus which has just been mentioned by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves is excluded from the government because it is the only entity that does not consensualize on what we have just heard from the Member of the Socialist Party. This is very simple and must not be complicated: the Organic Law No. 4 / 2019 created the Transparency Entity. in this same law it is clearly stated in Article 4. the, which « relates to the Government to enter the necessary funds for the creation and operation of the Transparency Entity », but in this budget the Government does not present the necessary funds for its installation and operation. It is also stated in this article that « the Government provides facilities for the Transparency Entity in the first half of 2020 ». Now, we are discussing the State budget by the end of the second half of 2020 and no government proposal is known to that effect. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, like the largest government in history, cannot use the pandemic so that they have not yet followed the legislation that has been presented here. In short, therefore, the PSD proposal is very simple: to carry out for the Budget what the Constitutional Court calls for as the minimum funds necessary to carry out the effective installation of the Transparency Entity, as we all know, because we have already approved in the Budget last year and, as the Government also knows, because the Constitutional Court has addressed it. In essence, what the PSD proposal aims at — of course, with the support of the other banks — is that we know how to respect, i.e. to enforce the laws that we ourselves approve with the timeliness that we ourselves define. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u253	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u254	Mr President, before I refer to the subject under consideration, I would like to comment on the last demagogic intervention by Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, which, bewildered by the lead of the creation of the child's provider, has made the demagogic and outdated comparison with the fact that the animal supplier has been created. Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, a serious State and a progressive country can do several ways at the same time. A serious state and a progressive country does not need to end illiteracy to start creating and installing universities. Therefore, there are paths that can and should be done simultaneously. With regard to the subject under consideration, I would like to say, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, that the Government has opted for a way that cuts by 22 % the amount of money from the Transparency Entity, which we do not accept, and therefore the NAP proposes that the amount of money from the Entity be increased by €646,000 so that this Entity will have the resources needed to finally start working next year. I cannot fail to mention the proposal we have put forward, which seeks, in the face of the inertia of the Government which, because of distraction or unwillingness, is almost a year late in fulfilling its duty, to ensure a seat for the Transparency Entity, a fundamental aspect for it to start its installation. Today, the options are clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members : either follow the proposal of the Socialist Party, which, by giving a free-hand kit to the Government wants to prolong this duty until March, or follow the proposal of the NAP and ensure that, in January next year, these facilities are assured.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u255	Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the question here is being raised about the budgetary allocation for the Constitutional Court and then to reflect on the Transparency Entity leads me to make brief remarks. First of all, the Transparency Entity is an absolutely essential part of combating corruption in Portugal. Its creation resulted from a proposal submitted by the Left Block and I believe that it is very important and essential that this Entity be given the conditions, from the beginning of the budget, so that it can quickly enter into operation, because, I say again, it is an absolutely essential part of the national effort to combat corruption. Therefore, we think that this somewhat Byzantine discussion, around the physical location, of making the budget allocation go ahead or, better, its entry into operation of a decision on whether to remain in Lisbon, if it stays in Coimbra, if it stays in Aveiro, with all the clarity, is a discussion that naturally has its importance, but cannot be considered essential and decisive for the entry into operation of the Transparency Entity. We understand well what the Transparency Entity will have to do, which is not to create a house where a safe, a sort of bunker is installed, where there are some physical materials that need to be controlled. It's nothing like that. Above all, we are talking about a computer system, a computer platform, of great sophistication, which is absolutely essential for the work that needs to be done. That is why we are next to all the proposals, regardless of their nature, and we will follow all the proposals that are aimed at strengthening funds to the Constitutional Court so that, once and for all, there will be no longer any trouble for the Entity to enter into operation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u257	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u258	Mr President, I do not want to prolong the debate which, not being Byzantine, is relevant, I would like to underline two things. The main issue and the factor « tailfish in the mouth » in which we find ourselves are the result of the government, yes, of providing headquarters to the Court, but it is the Court itself who has to define the seat in advance. It is precisely for once and for all to break the vicious circle, to cut the Gordian knot, with a sword, such as Alexandre, who propose these measures, so that, by the end of the first quarter, the issue will be resolved. The financial issue that Mr André Silva referred to is not accurate, because, just as in last year there was a statement in the State budget, unfortunately for the reasons we pointed out, it was not possible for the Court to initiate the procedures which led to the spending of the money. Therefore, the matter would always be resolved, even though it was not through the transition of balance. What is guaranteed with this proposal, as well as last year? In other words, what is guaranteed with direct registration in the State budget? It is not for the Court to wait until there is authorization for the transition of the balance and to be assured of the value placed on the ground. So let us not confuse two themes that are well-defined. One has to do with the headquarters and, although it is true that the remainder is conditional, it is a matter which assumes that the Court does not grant prior intervention, which defines the location of its headquarters. Subsequently, there is, of course, the financial issue, and this is also clearly resolved by all the proposals that increase the money so that the Transparency Entity can work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u259	Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to make a very quick statement on this subject in line with what has already been reaffirmed by the PS Parliamentary Group, stating first of all that the question of the timetable, how the process is managed, is of course determined by the Constitutional Court itself. In other words, the logic of precedence is determined by the Constitutional Court itself. It is true that there is a delay in the availability of facilities and, yes, the essential reason for this delay is essentially about the pandemic period we are going through, and not exactly what has been argued recently about the size of the government. What is right — and I would like to be able to rest the ladies and gentlemen. Members on this issue—is that at this time we are in contact with the Constitutional Court, precisely trying to close the location of the facilities and to ensure that this is still done during 2020. And, yes, these facilities will be outside Lisbon and Porto. With regard to the budgetary issue, as Mr PS said recently, it would not raise any problem for the use during the year of 2021, but the proposals on the table will make this allocation of funds more transparent so that the operation can enter at cruise speed immediately in the year of 2021, with all the investments that need to be made, including in the computer field, of the computer structure and of resources for the computer area that will support the activity of the Transparency Entity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u261	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u262	Mr President, the Left Block objected to the sale of the New Bank because it considered it a mistake to hand over the third largest bank in the country to an abutre fund, after having injected EUR 4900 million there. We have criticised the public guarantee of EUR 3900 million and, as the ruinous contract has been revealed, we have sought to introduce control and transparency mechanisms throughout this process. We have learned in the past year that Lone Star could be doing harmful operations for the State without any monitoring mechanisms at the time. The Monitoring Committee does not review the inequalities, it has no power to do so, and the Resolution Fund has come to the Assembly of the Republic saying that it is not Sherlock Holmes to investigate operations. The reports on the sale of real estate assets to scrapping, on financial participations, on accounting decisions against the interests of the State are accumulated and, therefore, at the moment, the discussion is not only about a bad strategic decision, nor is it only about lack of transparency. The discussion is about the possibility of the Portuguese State being deceived, read, sucked, as no private would accept. It's serious, very serious. That is why all parties were shocked when news of the sales of real estate appeared; that is why the PSD President came to say, there from the rostrum, that there would be a crime in those sales; and that is why all parties felt that it should be done or requested by the Court of Auditors an independent audit for the clear purpose of assessing the use of the contract. What the Left Block proposes is that Parliament should be consistent with its decisions and that the determination to stop abuse should not be made by very convincing and very shocking words at the time the news comes to the public, but that it would have a consequence in the way we decided to allocate public money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u263	If the sum of EUR 476 million remains in the State budget, if the parliamentary groups accept this commitment from the State to Lone Star before knowing the audit, the State puts itself in a weak position before the abutre fund. Well, then, let's make a difference. The statement of the State budget is withdrawn and the State does not make any commitments before hearing the audit. Then, knowing the audit, the Government will evaluate the contract and will propose to the Assembly of the Republic what it believes to be the right thing to do and at that time each party will be able to make its decision in conscience and in possession of all relevant information. Only in this way are we consistent and protect the interests of the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u264	Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, in July 2020, when discussions began on this State budget, the Left Block defined three areas which it considered to be priority for it to be viable. One of the areas was that of the New Bank, more specifically, for the State to stop lending money to the Resolution Fund to inject it into the New Bank. In contrast to the previous budgets, the proposal for a State budget which the Government has submitted, which is under discussion and which will be voted in a comprehensive final vote tomorrow, does not provide for the loan of any euro to the Resolution Fund for its injection into the New Bank. This claim of the Left Block, this priority of the Left Block to enable the State Budget to 2021 was direct and automatically satisfied in the proposal of the State Budget itself to 2021. in this matter, the Socialist Party has taken the lead in monitoring and seeking the truth. First of all, I remember that one of the requesting parties of the parliamentary committee of inquiry which will start immediately after the approval of the State budget for 2021 was precisely the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party proposed a parliamentary commission of inquiry to the management of the New Bank and soon it was the Socialist Party that proposed an independent audit by the Court of Auditors to manage asset disposal by this administration of the New Bank. on our part there is no doubt—that there is no doubt whatsoever! — that the PS wants the truth and wants to provide all the information so that public opinion has access to the one that has been the management of the New Bank and to the decisions that supposedly have damaged the public interest. But it is also important not to bleach some situations that have contributed to this issue of the New Bank. What has reached the New Bank and that has justified capital calls to the Resolution Fund in recent years has been a set of toxic assets that should have remained in BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) but that have moved to the New Bank. They have generated inequalities year after year and we want to know why these toxic assets of billions of euros, loans and real estate, did not stay in the BES and went to the New Bank. Why did the Banco de Portugal and the PSD/CDS government at the time decide to transfer these toxic assets from BES to the New Bank? It is a burden on the management of the New Bank which, after the sale, has been paid, between quotes, through injections of the Resolution Fund. In order for this red block line to be satisfied, the PS and the Government responded automatically to the State budget proposal. In this State budget for 2021, there are no State loans to the Resolution Fund to inject them into the New Bank. We are going to the parliamentary committee of inquiry and we are waiting for the independent audit of the Court of Auditors that the PS proposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u266	Mr. Secretary of State for Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u267	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u268	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u269	Mr President, the normal thing is for the government to close the debate, as is the case with the practice. I assume that you are the Secretary of State to do so and in this context we believe that an exceptional period should now be opened for the entries relating to Article 1. the, which we are already discussing before the closure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u270	Mr President, I thank you very much for your second warning, but I would like to tell you that the Bureau is waiting for inscriptions. If VV. For example, if you sign up, I'll give you the word immediately. Since there are no registrations yet, I ask who is enrolled to intervene before the Secretary of State for the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u271	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u272	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u273	Mr President, if the aim of the Government is to close the debate without saying anything about the New Bank issue — I understand this from the gesture message of Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs... [[Pause.]] Since the Government is indicating that it will speak about the New Bank, I would like to write to Mrs Mariana Mortágua to speak after the Government's intervention, since the Member has already spoken and would now be the turn of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u274	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if there are any more entries. [[Pause.]] Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u275	Mr President, I would just like to support the words which have already been said by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party on the subject of the New Bank. I stress that the State budget for 2021 does not provide for any State loan to the Resolution Fund and that what is in the Budget is simply to ensure that the State can comply with its commitments with the European Commission, with the European Central Bank and with the established contracts. We stress that, on our part, there is a total and absolute requirement for contracts concluded. There will be an independent audit for the year 2019 and its result will be available at the end of March. Therefore, on our part, for all the audits, for a committee of inquiry, we have all the interest that everything will be cleared up to the hundredth. However, we will not put the Portuguese State in a situation of non-compliance with the European institutions — the European Commission, the European Central Bank — and a contractual framework that can bring us compensation. This is our position. More: at present, the Resolution Fund is substantially funded by the banking sector and the expected solution increases the involvement of that sector itself, with bank funding to deal with these transfers. Therefore, the involvement of the banking sector after the planned transfer will increase to appreciably 13 % and we also think that it is the right time for us to create the conditions for, in the future, with the funds of the banking sector, the Resolution Fund becomes self-sufficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u276	Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u277	Mr President, I think it would be useful for the debate that the PS would stop repeating the fiction invented by Passos Coelho, which said that the Resolution Fund is not a State, which is not public. At the time, the PS rejected this fiction, but in the meantime it changed its position. In fact, this is not the only matter in which the PS has changed its position since the time when the Rabbit Passes was Prime Minister until now. The Resolution Fund is financed by taxes constituting a revenue from the State. The money that will be used to pay back the bank's loan comes from taxes that are revenues from the State, regardless of whether they have been allocated to the Resolution Fund. So we're talking about taxpayers' money that's being committed to a contract. Mr. Secretary of State for Finance tells us that the State must comply, because it has a contract with the European Commission and a contract with Lone Star. What about Lone Star? How do we make sure Lone Star meets the contract, when there are indications that it doesn't? Why does it always have to be the State to keep the losses and never to respect when there is evidence that a private entity does not meet that contract? Yeah, evaluate yourself! The way in which the New Bank is or is not abusing this contract is evaluated and, after that assessment, the government that makes a decision and submits it to the Assembly of the Republic, because that is how decisions are made transparently in a Republic and not to fulfil contracts that we know are ruinous, without having any control over how the bank is managing it. Mr. João Paulo Correia, yes, there are responsibilities of BES, yes, there are toxic assets, yes, the resolution was incompetent by the Banco de Portugal, but the Socialist Party and the Government signed a ruinous contract and, in addition to that contract being ruinous, there are indications that it is being abused by Lone Star. The PS proposal, the PS position is: paid and then evaluates. Our position is another: first and then, where appropriate, the contract is paid through a transparent decision in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Secretary of State, a short time ago, in a debate on tolls, had the opportunity to explain to the PSD why the price of tolls cannot be lowered, which 64 million to take down tolls must be carefully assessed. It is always so difficult to make spending when supporting essential sectors is involved, but then it is so easy to commit 476 million to Lone Star, without waiting for the results of an audit of the Court of Auditors! It is precisely because of this transparency that the Left Block fights in this Budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u278	You have the floor again, Mr. Secretary of State for Finance, João Nuno Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u279	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I repeat what I said recently: maximum demand! The Left Block will no longer, in terms of rigor in the contract, require more than the Socialist Party and the Government. for my part, I will do everything I can to ensure that the state is not damaged by 1 cent, and we will work on it. On the issue of tolls, it is not 60 million, it is a decision that costs 1500 million, when we should be allocating our expenditure for other purposes. With regard to bank contributions, they are addressed to the Resolution Fund to address what is the bank's historical problems and what we need to solve. On the other hand, there is one thing that the Portuguese State must have the notion: we must respect our word, the contracts we conclude, the decisions in which we participate in the European framework. The price of not fulfilling it will be absolutely extraordinary and, therefore, we will not deal with it. I must also tell you that for NPLs (non-performing loans) which is something that we are dealing with only in the national sphere, in this discussion on the New Bank, the Government is constantly questioned about the levels of gross and net NPLs in each bank of the banking system, particularly in those banks which are considered significant. And the New Bank is a significant bank. This means that the banking sector has made an extraordinary journey over recent years in terms of NPL reduction, but there is a way we have to continue to do. This is part of our European commitments, it is part of what is our basis, which is to have a stabilization position of the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u280	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proof that the contributions are revenue from the State is that when the contribution on the bank financing the Resolution Fund was created there was no Resolution Fund, the contributions were created before the Resolution Fund and then assigned to the Resolution Fund. They are taxed by the State, as is the contribution on the pharmaceutical industry, as are many other contributions that are created on different sectors, including the energy sector. Secondly, please note, Mr Secretary of State, that the Block's proposal, which you can read in the Budget, is not that the State withdraws the contract. It is ruinous, yes, because of the responsibility of the government, but our proposal is not that of the State to withdraw the contract, the Block proposal is that the commitment that the Secretary of State here assumed is true, that is, first the audit and then the injection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u282	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u283	I will finish, Mr. President. The Block's proposal is that the Budget does not commit itself to a word which, in essence, is a white letter to the Resolution Fund to make the injection, if it so understands, without any power of any other democratically elected institution. What we want to do is simply make a commitment: there is no injection without evaluation; this injection comes to Parliament with a request from the Government. This is what transparency requires in the democratic debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u284	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco, whom I take advantage of to address my congratulations and wishes for happiness for another anniversary, and that there are many. A hug, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, we are experiencing an exceptional situation and we are ending the debate on the State budget in this situation, in which the country undergoes an unprecedented health crisis and an unprecedented economic and social crisis in our democracy. The Government's budget should be the answer not only to the country's structural problems, but especially at this critical moment to these two realities. But unfortunately it is not, and this was quite evident from the record number of amendments that this budget has been targeted. It was more than 1400 proposals. In fact, something very sui generis happens: two thirds of these proposals came precisely from the parties that made the Budget viable. They were so happy with what they were making possible that they presented more than two-thirds of the amendments to the document that they were going to make possible... Well, the PSD, as always, with a sense of responsibility, did not present an overwhelming set of proposals, nor did it even seek proposals that, for us, are emblematic, that are in our DNA, because we know that we are facing a very own reality and that, in times of crisis, perhaps, there are no conditions to take measures that may be necessary and useful for the country in normal situations. That is why the proposals that we have put forward were simply aimed at responding to two realities: economic and social crises and health crises. What have we found during these days of debate? The PSD proposal for the state to pay time and time is plunged by the PS ; the proposal for support to the interior and the Algarve is plunged by the PS ; the proposal for support to Fatima, a municipality that is suffering, is plunged by the PS ; the proposal for support to farmers is plunged by the PS ; the proposal for support to young people is plunged by the PS. The concern of PS with reality is zero, it's null! But then when we look at the issue of the health crisis, what do we see? With regard to the proposal that each Portuguese have a family doctor, so that Mr. Prime Minister will not be discredited, in view of what he has promised, the PS plumba; with regard to the proposal for a reduction in waiting times for surgeries and consultations for non-COVID patients, the PS plumba. So, Mr President, my dear friends, what do we see? A short time ago, Secretary of State João Torres said that "the government is not in cross arms" — it was his expression.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u286	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u287	I will finish, Mr. President. I just want to say that it is true that the government is not in cross arms, because the government is sleeping on the reality that the country is living and therefore this budget can only deserve our vote against. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u288	Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first point I want to address is that of the New Bank, because Mrs Mariana Mortágua said that the Resolution Fund was tax-funded, and it is not. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] I listened to her patiently, Mrs. Deputy. [[Continuation of protests by the member of BE Mariana Mortágua.]] Mrs. Member, listen, please. We can debate our differences with serenity. The Resolution Fund is within the scope of public debt and budgetary deficit because the European System of Accounts 2010 ( ESA 2010 ) determines that those entities whose revenue comes to them under the law, as is the case with the contributions of the banking sector, and not by services provided directly, in the case by the Resolution Fund to the participating banks, are transferred to the debt and deficit perimeter. In July, when the Left Block required the Government « no more than 1 € of loan to the Resolution Fund for its injection into the New Bank », it was only enough for the Left Block. at that time, the Left Block did not say « first, pay and then occur » ; at that time, in July, that red line was enough to the Left Block. Then, month after month, the Left Block was evolving in the red lines, always with the assumption and willingness to continue away from the process of feasibility of this State Budget. But there is a contradiction that cannot be made clear, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua. It is that the Left Block votes against the Budget and, as such, by the will of the Left Block, none of the measures that we are debating here, nor those that are approved in the specialty, would be implemented. However, the measure relating to the Resolution Fund, which the honourable Member has tabled here, at the will of the Left Block, does not fall into the overall final vote of the Budget. And by not passing, like the Budget, the Country will live under the twelfth regime, which means that the State budget rules for 2020 are recovered, which already allow the State to lend money to the Resolution Fund for its injection into the New Bank. This is called incoherence, Your Honor! Incoherence! We were expecting the Left Block to learn with its incoherence and its path of incoherence in New Bank matters. To finish, responding to Mr. Duarte Pacheco's intervention, I will say that this State budget is a combat budget, because it responds with great investment in combating the pandemic: the strengthening of the National Health Service, the hiring of 4,200 professionals for the National Health Service, the hiring of 260 professionals for INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) and other investment measures in primary health care and hospitals. And what did the PSD do? Generally, the Budget has plummeted! This budget, in its social dimension, reinforces social security, strengthens social benefits and covers a new social benefit which was submitted here to the Assembly of the Republic on 12 October. And what did the PSD do? Chumbou-a! The PSD, on 12 October, in the debate in general of this Budget, came to say « we are against the State budget for 2021, because this Budget gives everything to all », but then, when we looked at the PSD proposals, we saw two budget bombs contradicting what you now say is your responsibility. I recall that the proposal for payments on behalf of small, medium-sized and large enterprises has entered the market. The PSD was running to amend its proposal to be intended only for small and medium-sized enterprises, removing large companies, but then, when it saw that this was still a budget bomb of EUR 1500 million, it reduced the proposal to one quarter, as if it were possible to suspend payments on account in a single quarter, and the proposed reduction of tolls to be voted on this afternoon, as the UTAO itself said, represents about EUR 120 million per year. Therefore, consistency and responsibility are asked for the PSD, which is what we have not seen in this budgetary procedure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u290	Following now the plaice that Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira spoke recently, and very well, I give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for the Budget, Cláudia Joaquim.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these four days of discussion and vote on the Budget, not yet the last day, it is very important that we make a balance sheet. And I think it will be important to make a balance sheet on the budget that has been presented and on the discussion and the votes that have been made so far. The State budget presented by the Government is a budget drawn up in a difficult context, of unforeseeableness, and of permanent, daily unforeseeableness. I think everyone will recognize this. It is in this context that the Government has decided new policy measures for the past eight months on a weekly basis. These policy measures have been addressed to those who need the most: businesses, entrepreneurs, workers, families, health professionals, education professionals, all state professionals who, too, have had support, who, too, have been working, often in telework, who, too, have reinvented themselves every day to continue to respond to the Portuguese they need. It is also in this context that we have a State budget with many new measures and a State budget for which we were aware that we would need it as an instrument in order to be able to decide new policy measures on each day of the year of 2021. It is also a State budget that will have to monitor the whole evolution of this situation, but it is a State budget that has a margin — and with all this provision that the Government has come for this debate — which is the margin to approve all the initiatives that complement and follow the path that the country needs. And it is a way in which we need to strengthen our health, where we need to support education, where we need to support all workers and their families. But it is also a budget that needs to have the full margin and that needs to be an instrument for a government that, in office, every day of the year of 2021 will need to have it. It is also in this context that this budget has introduced and allowed us to debate all these measures and initiatives in the House of Democracy these days. And we can consider, as can each one of us. Members and each of the parliamentary groups, that the proposals they presented would be the ideals and the best ones. Of course I do. But we need to have a budget that will be seen, at the end of tomorrow's day, as a whole. Above all, I think it is very important to mention the following: when this budget is voted on, each measure, each initiative voted on during these days represents a vote of responsibility or irresponsibility. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be an irresponsibility to adopt measures with permanent costs for the country, it will be an irresponsibility to approve measures which may have a charge of thousands or millions of euros in the future, because we now need to have a focus on those which are the temporary, extraordinary measures to meet the needs that the Portuguese will need during the year of 2021. And we're not just ruling thinking about the present. This budget has kept the whole line of the last few years. On the whole, there was no reduction in expenditure, there was no cuts in support, there was no increase in taxes. This, yes, is a structural budget, which keeps the track, but which is a path that has had a glitch, a gap in which we need to deal with new measures daily. I'm done, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, by strengthening this message: the responsibility or irresponsibility to vote on this budget, each of the initiatives, is at the hands of each of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u292	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the names of colleagues who were present, by video conference, to accompany the work. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce that you have accompanied the session, by video conferencing, in your residences, for reasons of health or travel impossibility, Mr. PSD Members Duarte Marques and Sérgio Marques and the Sr. PS Deputies Miguel Matos, Luís Moreira Testa and Marcos Perestrello. With regard to this information, yesterday it was asked to clarify the following: all other Members. Members who are not present accompany the work in their offices, in respect of the measures that have been defined either by the Directorate-General of Health or by the Conference of Leaders. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-11-25.u294	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, 26 November, Thursday, at 10 a.m., we will be here again, with the following agenda: from the first point, there is the discussion of the rules advocated by the plenary and the second point, the vote on these rules. It will then proceed to the conclusion of the debate on Law No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and their global final votes. We shall also proceed to vote on the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish everyone a good job. See you tomorrow at ten o'clock. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 54 minutes.]]
