ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start this plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] It consists of the first point of this session the discussion of Bills Nos 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age and 498 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the Charter of Digital Rights and a set of additional measures to ensure that citizens' guarantees in the digital field are strengthened. Before that, Secretary Nelson Peralta will do the right thing to account for the file. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolutions Nos 675 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) and 676 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ). It also announced that it was withdrawn by the proposer the Bill No. 141 / XIV / 1. a (PEV). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. Let us then begin the first point on our agenda, which is generally the debate of Bill Nos 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) and 498 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN). You have the floor to present the PS bill, Mr. José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Hemicycle has been endowed with a system of projection and two screens, which desecrate, indeed, the work of the architect Ventura Terra, but the ancient rituals remain, which unfortunately prevents what might be the best of the beginnings for this debate. In fact, it would be sufficient to display a short summary of the documentary The Dilema of Social Networks, of the director Jeff Orlowski, which can easily be seen on streaming, to make clear the reason why legislators should not cross their arms. Our draft charter of fundamental rights in the digital age can perhaps be summed up in a phrase: without fundamental rights, the digital transition would convert millions of men, women and children into digital zombies, unlimitedly vamperizable in their data, manipulatable for commercial and political purposes, deprived of autonomy and, in fact, deprived of personal dignity. The fulminating advent of cyberspace has torn new horizons to humanity and has made the battle central for its democratization. The lexicon of the laws, also in Portugal, was rapidly polluted by « cyber » : cyber-virtual reality, cyber-ameas, cyber-security and even, innocently, cyber-cafés. If you have not yet reached the Dictionary of the Academy, having arrived at Spain, you must arrive. Quickly, we entered the era of digital platforms. The key to platform economy is simple: creating and providing services that attract users, recording everything they do, even what they are not aware of, who they relate to and what other sources of information say about them. Next, artificial intelligence is brought into the picture: algorithms chew the data and grasp in depth what they mean. The same computers that win humans chess and Go games, like AlphaGo, learn to distinguish whether those small points that the computer eye "sees" in a mammography anticipate a cancer there 2 years old or, on the contrary, should not be cause for concern. That is, scientifically, of great importance. The algorithms that, at this time, already weigh, for example, the foundations of the medical decision to operate or not operate, we have no doubt, will also lead a world of robot drivers, workers and human caregivers. Advertising will increasingly pass from bombing to brute, which still flood the televisions we have, to the custom message. This has already begun: if we send an e-mail where we refer to a certain country, we dare to receive travel and cruise announcements to that same country, and it is not by coincidence. In 2020, the first year of the great pandemic, we know that cyberspace issues must be taken seriously because it can be used as a lever for unimaginable progress, but it can also serve as a means of addiction, polarizing, discriminating, dehumanizing, committing crimes. The risk that many people do not realize is that we are going to live in the « era of surveillance capitalism», a 910-page treaty, where American politician Shoshana Zuboff is looking for answers to the new challenges. The PS Parliamentary Group did not invent the silver bullet that everything fits and solves, but because of the contributions and reactions already received, I think we can break the silence and inertia about things that cause motion. We rocked the tree...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u6	... and, as one well-known African proverb says, «when the tree is washed away, the monkeys jump», i.e., the issues difficult to resolve. We're not gonna solve them all. in this session, the Assembly will approve the new legal regime of audiovisual media services, we are already discussing it in the Committee on Culture and Communication ; we will approve the new European Code of Electronic Communications, which has to be approved by the end of the year ; by June 2021, it will be transposed the directive on copyright in the digital age ; in 2021, the European law on digital services will replace the old-fashioned directive on electronic commerce, which has already exploded in the time of the pandemic. This letter, of course, does not repeal special laws, so they do not take the fears of the API ( Portuguese Press Association ) that there is a blackout of the existing law on trade or copyright. There are very interesting suggestions from CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ), the Internet Society and other entities, which will greatly enrich the work in the specialty, in addition to Mr. Members of the various parties. Let me just point out this: this letter will state Portugal as a digital Republic that participates enthusiastically in the world process of transformation of the Internet in an instrument of gaining freedom, equality and social justice and in an area of promotion, protection and free exercise of human rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No presidents or ministers to ban the download of apps, such as TikTok or any other. This letter gives force to the principle that we have supported in the UN ( United Nations ), according to which the rules which, in the Portuguese legal order, enshrine and protect rights, freedoms and guarantees are applicable in cyberspace in the same title. This letter enshrines the imperative of public policies that create infrastructures and support programmes that guarantee everyone the right to free access to the Internet, regardless of descent, sex, gender, race, language, territory of origin, religion, political or ideological convictions, education, economic situation or social condition. For this, quality, broadband and affordable connectivity throughout the national territory is needed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They certainly saw, days ago, the news that the broadband arrived at the Coura Walls and was a party, with the contribution of €250 000 from the Authority. That is what is needed in more and more places, and then with 5G, this will be an even greater dimension, because we are talking about the virtual highways of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The letter is prudent. There are answers we don't have yet. For example, our careful answers to artificial intelligence are intended to avoid prejudiced algorithms and options such as those that led to the scandal of racist and preconceived admissions in a UK university. We don't want that. The White Paper on the Artificial Intelligence of the European Union, prepared by the Commission, removes this, but we must be careful in the formulation of any rule which is to be adopted in this House at this time. The same with regard to Digital Public Administration, whose treatment the NAP project we greet, intends to expand. We shall have several speeches in this debate. I therefore limit myself to a final note: there are those who think that legally enshrined rights, freedoms and guarantees is little and even vain or harmful. That is not our opinion. In 1829, miguelists inconformity with the Constitution of then erected forks in Plaza Nova, current Square of Liberty in Porto, and in them killed 12 martyrs of freedom, who today lie at the Cemetery of the Prado do Repouso. But constitutionalism prevailed, by the force of law and sword. Today's battles do not resolve with the sword—maybe, with the sword of the law—and do not resolve with a landing in the Mind, but resolve. Against hackers and other bisbilliers, we must learn to use encryption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Against traffickers, hatred and xenophobia and other law violators, the new rights of complaint and popular action must be exercised and the rights of rectification and response enshrined in this letter. This effort should be organised in associations which should have a public utility status. This status difference will put in opposing poles who defend the law and who is against the law. The PS calls for a broad understanding of the people of close association around the Constitution regarding these rules and we will do everything to make them perfect, approved and applied. It is therefore worth approving a letter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u7	To present the NAP initiative, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The so-called 'new digital era' has brought unequivocal progress and progress to our lives. With the digital age, we were all closer together, communication was facilitated and not limited to borders, a progress that was seen by all during this health crisis. With the digital age, we became more informed. The digital era democratized access to entertainment: with a simple click, we can play the games we want, see the series we want or listen to the music we want. The digital age was also synonymous with simplifying access to certain goods and services and originated global mobilization actions for a better world, something obvious in the Fridays for Future movement, driven by Greta Thunberg, which requires action by the political power to combat the climate crisis, or in the movement generated by the death of George Floyd, against racism and discrimination. However, the undeniable progress associated with this new digital era has not been made without negative aspects for citizens and their fundamental rights, such as the misuse of personal data, almost complete compression of the right to privacy and the secrecy of communications and the oppression of labour law at rest. But more than putting fundamental rights at risk, the digital age puts democratic regimes at risk, through the proliferation of fake news, mixed with hate speech and extremism, and the use of data from social media users for custom political or commercial purposes. Portugal is a country in which, in addition to these problems, it is found that the digital age takes time to reach all citizens in the same way. We are still a country where a quarter of the students do not have a computer, where a fifth of the rural areas are not served by broadband internet, where the internet usage rate is still 12 % below the European average. We continue to be a country where, mainly in the interior, citizens continue to pay for services that do not correspond to the quality contracted and where mobile data is the most expensive in Europe, with an artificially low volume of data to encourage consumers to join zero-rating packages. These problems require action, require legislation to protect the rights of citizens in this new digital age, and that is what the NAP and PS are discussing today, in the form of a letter of digital rights that aims to be the starting point for a legislative process that, with the contribution of all political forces and civil society, achieves significant concrete progress. in this debate I would like to concentrate on some proposals that are contained in the NAP project and which I think are relevant. The first is to ensure a legal framework for the social tariff of the Internet and its potential beneficiaries, which, in our view, should be the beneficiaries of social benefits, the unemployed (with or without benefit) and the family members of low incomes, a proposal that, being fair, guarantees a fight against the serious inequalities of access to the internet that still persist and that we must be able to put an end to. The second is to ensure that ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) sets annually the minimum Internet access speeds that operators have to ensure throughout the territory, under sanctions in case of non-compliance, a crucial measure to combat certain inequalities in access and regional asymmetries that still persist in the country. The third is to take measures to protect citizens against fake news and hate speech. For the NAP, the path goes by giving legal force to guidelines from the European Union in this area, strengthening the competences of the ERA ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ) in combating these phenomena and placing the focus of public action on prevention through awareness and accountability, rather than on preventing punishment. These are sensitive and increasingly present problems in Portugal, for which the existing legal framework presents itself as insufficient. The fourth is because, rather than asserting in the law the right of neutral access to the Internet, as it is enshrined in European law, to ensure that concrete measures are taken to protect that right. One of these measures is to foresee, in line with European legislation, a clear limitation of unfair zero-rating practices and the possibility of sanctioning ANACOM of operators who use these practices. To ensure this concrete advance is to ensure a more free internet, it is to ensure greater respect for consumer rights. The fifth is to ensure greater transparency and openness to the citizens by the public authorities in the digital field, which of course the NAP, for all that has been its action in this legislature, could not help. We therefore propose that the video-supported recordings of public meetings of municipal bodies be required to be made available, the establishment of public notification systems for all administrative acts and regulations that are of interest to them or the conduct of audits to the software of the bodies and services of the Public Administration. Finally, and no less important, because we do not want this letter to be a dead letter, we propose the creation of the figure of the digital popular action that enables citizens and consumer representative associations to ensure the defence of citizens' digital rights and respond to possible violations of the provisions of this letter of digital rights that we now propose. A final note to point out that the NAP has also presented an initiative to ensure that the Labour Code is modernised in order to ensure that a right to professional disconnection is enshrined, since today the increasingly dominant culture is to demand that it be always linked. This is absolutely contrary to the health and well-being of workers, jeopardizing their right to rest. This discussion will be held on another occasion, but let us have no doubt that it is a discussion that goes hand in hand with what we have today and that well reflects the thinking of the NAP on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u9	For an intervention, which I believe has implied a request for clarification, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u10	Mr President, in fact, I have signed up for a request for clarification to Mr José Magalhães, regarding the presentation of the Socialist Party bill. Mr President, I would like to say to you the following: I would like to say to him: regardless of our disagreement of our disagreement with some ambitious formulation, as it results from its intervention, with a claim which seems to be underlying the initiative of the Socialist Socialist Party on the initiative of the Socialist Party of a sort of Napoleonic codification of matters related to the rights of the digital age, which raises huge doubts for a number of reasons, as the result of which, as a result of its intervention, as the rest of which it seems to be the result of its intervention, with a claim that it is underlying to be at the initiative of the Socialist Party of the Socialist Party of the Socialist Party, which seems to be at the initiative of the Socialist Party of the Socialist Party, I would like to say to say to you that regardless of the reference to fundamental aspects of our social life of these fundamental rights of fundamental rights, which we believe that it should be a very important question, regardless of the fundamental aspects of these fundamental subjects which are dealt with, which I would refer to the various subjects which various subjects which are discussed, the Social Party Party Party Party Party Party Party, the Party Party Party Party to the Party Party Party to the Party to the European Party to the European Party to the European Party to the Rights to the Rights to the European Party, and the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the European Party Party, the European Party Party Party Party, the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the European Party Party Party, the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights and the Rights to the Rights to the Rights and I I I I I I I I I I I I would wish to the Rights Peace Peace Peace Peace Peace Peace Peace Peace to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights and the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights and the Rights I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I wish wish wish wish wish wish to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights and I wish wish wish to the Rights to the Rights to the Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights Rights of the Rights of the Rights as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as I would like to begin by raising the following point: on the part of the CFP, we do not follow the objections made in several of the opinions reached concerning the Socialist Party's project, objections which are intended to say that the Portuguese State cannot decide sovereignly on the rules it intends to define in order to identify and defend the rights of citizens in the use of digital media, and much less we accept that the Portuguese State is hampered by the regulation of the European Union, which in some way would mean a de facto limitation here on the decision-making capacity of Portuguese sovereignty bodies. We do not follow this reading and we believe that the definition of individual rights of Portuguese citizens in the use of digital means is always a competence for Portuguese sovereignty bodies without any limitation and without any doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. If it is a request for clarification you only have two minutes, if it is an intervention you will have three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u12	Mr President, let me conclude that I promise I will not extend much more time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u13	Mr President, it is to facilitate the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u14	I will not extend much more time, and I will leave only one question, perhaps more in summary, which has to do with Mr. José Magalhães, with the following: this draft law of the Socialist Party has crossed with several other diplomas that exist and that regulate particularly sensitive matters, such as those that are dealt with here. We talk about the collection and processing of individual data in health, we talk about matters related to consumer rights, we talk about matters related, for example, to combating child pornography. Therefore, there are several aspects that articulate with matters that are defined here and there are aspects of them that are essential and that it is necessary to rest beyond what is foreseen in the Socialist Party bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u15	Mr President, you are making an intervention, it is not a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u16	I conclude, Mr President, and ask the following: does the Socialist Party consider that what it presents in its draft law is fully connected with the other diplomas that exist and there is some idea of how the standards that already exist today and regulate a number of situations that are reflected here are indispensable or does it believe that, in this legislative process too, it is necessary to consider the solution that is defined for some matters, such as that of the processing of personal data in health, which also needs to be reviewed in the light of some of the criteria that are introduced here in the Socialist Party bill? [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u17	I don't know if Mr. José Magalhães wants to answer right now or at the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u18	Finally, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u19	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u20	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u21	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u22	Mr President, I do not know how the Bureau wants to coordinate the work, because it seems difficult for us to guess the intention, but I believe that there is no further question to Mr. José Magalhães. At least Mr José Manuel Pureza, who is the next speaker, will make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u23	The honourable Member does not know but Mr. João Oliveira has written himself already after time and I have therefore asked in due time whether he wanted it to be a request for clarification or an intervention due to the times of each of the things, which, as you know, are different, so we will continue... Unless Mr. José Magalhães wants to answer right now, something which he has told me does not. Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u24	Mr President, I am sorry, my request for clarification was a real request for clarification to the Socialist Party and it must be answered now. Mr. José Manuel Pureza intends to make an intervention, which must take place later. I believe that this is how it determines the rules of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u25	Mr. João Oliveira, the responsibility for registering out of time is not the Bureau, it is the Member. In any case, I think that it would be good for Mr. José Magalhães to respond, but if he does not want to, he does not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u26	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u27	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we're not gonna waste much time on this, are we?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u28	Mr. President, we won't waste any time. Mr Bloco de Lefte wants to make an intervention and Mr José Magalhães wants to respond to the request for clarification from the CFP at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u29	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u30	So Mr. José Magalhães has the floor. That's not what I told you, but it's okay. Gestal language...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u31	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, the answer is very simple and very short: it is a 'no' and it is a 'yes'. No, we do not want to make a Napoleonic codification of everything that concerns fundamental rights in the digital age. Why? Because it would quickly go to the manicomie who tried to do this endocidecendo task.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u32	That was my fear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u33	The Union does not want to do this, we do not want to do it, the House, on our proposal, will not do it either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, the articulation of legislation with that which is in force and with another that will be produced is absolutely fundamental and I have already seen by the consultations and suggestions that there are several that are relevant and useful and that we will be able to accommodate, in the specialty, to make a text that accommodates these concerns and improves protection. One thing is quite certain is that we do not want a 'no toothless' letter, that is, without practical value, no relevant value and no effective design in the field of citizens. Therefore, you have to have concrete solutions to concrete problems and for this we appeal to your effort and contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u34	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes the initiatives presented and their concern, which, in fact, we follow, to update citizens' guarantees in the digital world, in particular as regards the neutrality of the network, the protection of privacy, the regulation of the use of data or the involvement of artificial intelligence in social life. But— and this is a very important criticism for us, which we share with several entities that have issued valuable opinions on these projects—we do not fail to stress how much inconvenience there is in regulating rights in the digital universe as if they were not already regulated in instruments of international law and binding Community law of the Portuguese State, from the outset the General Regulation on Data Protection and in the general national law itself. Worse still: in many times, the scope of protection of these rights is different in these projects and in these international and national legal instruments, or for more amplitude, or at least. And that is, in our view, negative because it can ultimately hurt the guarantees it seeks to defend. We do not accept the argument that the digital sphere is not bound by rules, living in a self-governance of market operators, without democratic supervision — and we need to do so much in this field, including in the guarantees of rights and freedoms! — but the truth is that these two bills do not take sufficient steps to achieve this fundamental objective. As different opinions make it clear, the projects present extensive and worrying legal weaknesses, and I give only two examples. First, there is no single reference in these projects to the rights of creators and to the protection of copyright and the author's ability to oppose the unauthorized dissemination and use of his creations in cyberspace. Secondly, after affirming the principle of control of citizens over the use of their data in cyberspace, the projects then exempt situations such as those we live at this time, of pandemic crisis, in which the strength or weakness of that principle is played, thus allowing all abuses, for example, in the operation of close epidemiological screening applications. With these proposals, we believe that not even the precautions of the National Data Protection Commission would have been applicable to the computer application promoted by the Government. We are deeply surprised that, above all, the PS has left out of its project precisely the only point that, in our view, would not create problems, changes to the Labour Code to update workers' rights in the digital context, namely the right not to be contacted outside the working time. We register. The Left Block will not give up this discussion. That said, we do not fail to give due importance to the inclusion, for example, of the right to neutrality of the Internet, which, although already provided for in European Union law since 2016, is still far from having due application by regulators in Portugal, in particular ANACOM and ERC, and should make us reflect on the role of Parliament as legislator in this matter. In short: these are projects that signal a certain concern, but that require clearances and major changes in the specialty phase. The final position of the Left Block depends on the extent of these changes in the specialty. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u36	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this liberal minute, I wanted to start by confessing that I liked the title of the PS Bill, Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Era, but then I realized that it was only the title because this Charter ends up being a misdeclared excuse to approve abrupt instruments of digital monitoring and control by the State. Therefore, this Charter is no praise to digital modernity and runs the risk, like the love letters that spoke the heteronym of the notable liberal Fernando Persona, of being a ridiculous letter: ridiculous because if it had been written 500 years ago it would be the king or queen to have greater control over the senders, the recipients and even the contents of the letters; ridiculous because if it had been written 100 years ago it would have prevented Fernando Persona from using such heteronym Álvaro de Campos, because it would be considered dangerous and promoter of rebellion and subversion; and ridiculous because it was not written to think in an increasingly volatile and ambiguous world, and instead of finding solutions to problems, tries to find problems for solutions that have nothing to do with today's digital world. In short, this Charter is more concerned with threats to the State than with threats to citizens' freedoms. In essence, the essential of this Charter is Article 1. , where it is said: "All citizens and collectives have the right to equal opportunities for access, use, creation and sharing in the digital world. Do not keep on seeking. ” All this is on a tweet...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u38	Great tweet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u39	...and if I'd stayed around, I wouldn't risk being ridiculous anymore.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u40	Ridiculous was you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u41	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the world has changed! From day to day, the digital age has transformed our daily life, our way of working, studying, communicating and how we relate socially. Digital communication, media, robotics, artificial intelligence, e-commerce and digital companies are some of the great challenges we face. We are faced with such a fundamental transformation that it is only equivalent to that caused by the Industrial Revolution. Ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, and contrary to what would be desirable and expectable, Portugal continues in the last few carriages of this revolution. Our digital portrait, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it continues to be quite worrying: the number of houses with Internet access remains incredibly low; there are still considerable areas without mobile broadband or with weak electronic communications networks; the 5G implementation process continues to stop; digital resources in schools continue not to go through a mirage; the percentage of purchasesonline remains far below the European Union average. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to act quickly not to miss the digital train, but to do so, we need a government that thinks digital rather than analogically. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u43	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to have a government that talks so much and does so little on digital. We cannot continue to have a government with such an ambitious programme that systematically fails the European targets of the single market and digital transition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we do not overlook the fundamental role that law and law may play in this matter. The ethical and social issues surrounding the mass use of new technologies must be addressed and regulated for the benefit and safeguard citizens' guarantees. Responding to these issues in a preventive way is a huge political and legislative challenge whose design should be focused on the rights and guarantees of users, but also on strengthening the protection of all parties involved in this context. Also in this respect, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the initiatives of the PS and the NAP go beyond those that should be the country's genuine legal and legislative priorities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are not here today to discuss, as we should be, innovative or preventive legal solutions, or even the transposition of missing directives, such as the European Code of Electronic Communications, which has to be transposed by 20 December, but only to discuss two initiatives that are limited to copying and replicating existing digital rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this reply has already raised great previous issues which we cannot fail to address. The first is to know whether it will make sense to institute legitimate rights of fundamentals outside our constitutional framework, with all the drawbacks and uncertainties of regime and interpretation that may arise there. The second is whether the regulatory difficulties are solved by the expansion of rights in a letter or whether instead they require the development of mechanisms that allow effective control by the competent authorities and the courts. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these two initiatives are merely saying and repeating rights, such as, for example, the right to the Internet, the right to digital privacy or the right to be forgotten, rights already enshrined in both our Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are many issues which are identified in the numerous contributions already received and which should be the subject of reflection and weighting in this legislative process. Of course, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we stress the CNPD opinions that alert us to the inconsistencies of standards and concepts with national law and European Union law, in particular with regard to GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation ), and that they are drafted in such terms that they change, see well! — the meaning and scope of these rights, involving systemic risks with clear damage to legal certainty and security. But also, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the absence of references to the protection of content (works, benefits and transmissions) in the digital environment and the need to promote a debate on the competences that are assigned to the ERC and which extravagant its scope of intervention, or, for example, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the difficult harmonisation of fundamental rights to freedom of expression with other fundamental rights, as well as the implications introduced by the new media, information and opinion through digital technology. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the emergency processes of new media agents in social networks, platforms, sites, personal virtual pages, digital television channels and other news and opinion vehicles on the Internet pose dangers and difficulties in relation to conventional journalism and endanger the survival of traditional information agencies. We must also not fail to mention the circumstances of these two diplomas which are extremely important, such as the rights of workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we have seen, the goodness of the proclamation of digital rights in a letter brings numerous legal and constitutional problems and does not, by itself, solve the problems of the world of algorithms, data and artificial intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still much to be done! We need a serious political and legal discussion to alert and prevent the impact of the race on obtaining our data, data we share with all, data we share with friends and colleagues, data we share with companies and data we do not share. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about our preferences, our health, our money, our vote, we are talking about an extremely important matter like our privacy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u44	Mr Bruno Aragão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Sara Madruga, the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a requirement of a new era, which the pandemic has not discovered but which has definitely accelerated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u47	The technological and digital revolution is happening. To lose it, knowing it, or to ignore it, not discussing it, is to move the country and citizens away from an inevitable revolution and, above all, necessary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u48	No Napoleons, kings, queens, or puppies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is in this framework that the Socialist Party seeks to materialize a letter of rights, freedoms and guarantees on concrete proposals and that is what we ask the other parties, i.e. that they can materialize a set of proposals that citizens can really feel. That is why, for example, the Socialist Party last week discussed and approved in this House a recommendation to the Government to create a social tariff for access to the Internet. It was also this government that proposed the distribution of 300,000 computers for students, especially for the most deprived,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it was also this government that proposed an investment of more than EUR 400 million for a digital school and it was also this government that proposed training in digital skills in companies and the promotion of employability, such as the announcement made this week of an agreement between the government and Google for the formation of more than 32,000 people. These are concrete proposals that are based on a general letter that we are presenting today and that actually has a new era. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Sara Madruga, what we ask you is the following: what concrete proposals will your party bring to a discussion which, being inevitable, could transform the Portuguese country and society? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u49	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age, presented by the Socialist Party, which, in fact, is only in name that it is a letter of fundamental rights. It appears at the time that 32 % of students — 32 %, Mr. Member, and more than gray speech are the numbers — I repeat, 32 % do not have the internet at the speed considered sufficient... [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] ... and 35% of the students are in schools where there is no internet, that when a few years ago the Prime Minister promised the internet for everyone. This is the truth! To whom you listen it seems that Google and Facebook will only come here because of the projects of the Socialist Party. But I also want to tell you something else: when we look at this standard, we realize that there is no desire to protect the creators, point 1 ; that there is a flagrant violation of the Copyright Directive, point 2,... [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] ... and that there is no interest in defending freedom on the Internet, point 3. I will tell you one thing: the PS may be interested in censoring some political speeches in Portugal, but that will not be as easy as it seems. The idea of a transvested hate speech in some form of political censorship will not go away and, as long as we try to find ways out, we will always find a way out to say what we have to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u51	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this: today the Socialist Party has assumed itself as the great censor in Portugal,... [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] ...but you won't be able to shut up social networks. You can shut up a lot of things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u53	Mr President, you have already spent more than 50 % of the time you were given. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u54	...but they will never be able to shut up social networks and defend freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u55	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Information technologies increasingly dominate our lives with very positive effects, but also with negative repercussions, particularly as regards the permeability of personal data, which are often manipulated using artificial intelligence, in an unthinkable and unimaginable manner to the common public, for commercial or other purposes. There are those who say that personal data, for this reason, is the new oil. Citizens, however well-known they may have, are hardly able to follow the pace of information technologies, as well as they are difficult to prevent when it comes to undesirable situations with regard to the availability and use of their data. If, on the one hand, we are witnessing the promotion of digitisation, particularly at the level of services and trade, exploiting the global network, on the other hand, the breakdown of borders creates great difficulties for States, especially in order to act and ensure the safety of people. Moreover, due to the increased exposure and use of network technologies, in this pandemic period, information frauds have increased, as reported by the Greens, many of which from abroad. The pandemic has also highlighted a number of inequalities, especially in access to information technologies, in particular with regard to Internet access — the situation for which we have been alerted — either due to the lack of economic resources for equipment and subscription of services, either by the fact that a significant part of the territory is not covered or by great weaknesses in broadband or fibre coverage, and it is clearly necessary to ensure a minimum speed of access throughout the national territory. The high price or lack of coverage, particularly in mountainous or low-density areas, is not beyond the privatisation of PT ( Portugal Telecom ), a company that should be under the control of the State. If it is essential to ensure the safety of citizens, their personal data and their content produced on the digital network, to ensure adequate coverage and speed throughout the national territory and to ensure affordable prices, it is also necessary to ensure respect for and non-discrimination of those who, for the most various reasons, do not want, or fail to obtain, digitize, also giving the same opportunities for information, the provision of public resources or simply ensuring, for example, at the level of public services, that all services, documents and information can be accessible through traditional and analogical means.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u58	Mr Sara Madruga da Costa has now the floor for an intervention, which may also be transformed into an answer to a question which has been raised and which, at the time, the Bureau did not realize that it was a question. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u59	Mr President, it will obviously be an answer. Mr Bruno Aragão, the PSD is, as it has always been, available for serious discussion to guard against and prevent the various impacts of the digital revolution. If there were any doubts about the nature of this discussion, it is now in sight of everyone: the PS wants to campaign with a digital letter because it has nothing more to present on this subject, during this legislature!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u60	Here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u61	We could give many examples of this government inaction, but let's just mention one, just one example. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the schools on the continent are still waiting for the government to deliver the computers and manuals it has promised. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u62	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u63	Mr. President and Mr. Members: This is a debate, we already realize, for many common places and also for some campaign, but it will also be for proposals, which are always welcome, and therefore I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party and the NAP on the initiatives. In short, Mr President, my message would be exactly like this : written as they are, these proposals cannot have the positive vote of the PSD. And why? Because they are at risk of being technically left behind, they are at risk of having content omissions, which are important and which have already been mentioned here, and they are also at risk of having a sense of opportunity that may be questionable. In the two proposals, several times we speak on digital platforms, several times we speak on calls, several times we speak on information, which should be different from talking on content produced by people, by citizens, and which should also be different from talking on personal data, which should be protected. Therefore, Mr President, there is no need to define a lot of things in this law, so that there are no readings that miss what, in fact, you might want to say. This is the first proposal. The second proposal will be to work more on the density of some of the articles. We see this in the digital will, for example, that it can be much deeper; we also see this in the right to forget, which may be on request to delete information by the search for the name, but also by another identifying given; we see this in the geolocation, but in public places of free access, because there are also public places of reserved access; and we see this in the relation of the citizen to the Public Administration, which can always be improved, in the delivery of our data to whom we manage and govern the country. The third point has to do with omissions. on an initiative which, if you would like, of this kind, this greatness and this opportunity, to refer things as protection of copyright simply for a statement of reasons or for the preamble is indeed a reduction to what is intended here. They are copyrights, intellectual property rights of people, rights that give us freedom of the press, rights that give us weapons to combat much of the cannibalization of the large digital platforms, which Mr. José Magalhães spoke of, which did so to the media, through advertising, and to ourselves, and which give us weapons to ambitious ever more — what we should all at first want — which is the transition to a digital economy, to an open and unclosed Portugal in the world. That's it, but it's more. There is also the announcement of the digital identity, made by the President of the European Commission, of a digitized digital print, if you want, throughout our European Union. Then there are the algorithms. More and more, our life in European space is determined by algorithms, whether to decide how we get into college or to decide how our city's traffic lights behave. We don't know who controls them, we know where the databases are, and we need to go far beyond the algorithms. They're going to tell me the gentlemen. Members that this is already being poured into European directives, which are all being poured out, even in national legislation, in the GDPR, in the copyright directive, which we have to transpose, into the future Digital Services Act, which has already been mentioned here, into identity, and even, who knows, into the debate that we will have to have on taxes to digital giants at European level. They are all initiatives with one thing in common, a very strong Community pendant, because if it is on the Internet we are talking about, if it is about something that binds us in real time, then it makes sense that this legislation is done in common, in the community and with the European Union. And that is why I am afraid of the sense of opportunity, if I may eventually legislate against what we have or simply legislate now to move from here to a few months when the transposition of directives comes. Here, Mr President, we want a law, but we want useful law, we want a law that actually changes something. And I think we will agree here that we start a path, which must be initiated by all parties, to work as a specialist, to deepen legislation in the digital field, listening to the contributions we have, because some are good, also welcoming those who can come to us and, in essence, ensuring that the final text here will ensure that none of the provisions that are there restricting any type of right which is enshrined in Portugal. That, yes, will be a good service. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u64	Mr President, the Bureau is registering for clarification from Mr Nelson Silva. You have the floor, therefore, to make requests for clarification, Mr Nelson Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u65	Mr President, Mr Carvalho, when I heard - and I listened very carefully - I do not fail to notice that reading only of opinions does not give us the right, so let us say, to a formal opinion on the proposals under discussion here. We are, as always, open to building bridges and seeking points of convergence with all political forces, in the context of discussion in the specialty. The NAP proposal does not have the presumption of perfection, it is an incentive for debate to solve problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u66	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u67	The question that I leave to the honourable Member is very simple: will the PSD choose, through its proposals, to leave everything in it or will it actually contribute to innovative proposals, such as those presented here today?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u68	Sir, I apologize for interrupting you. He had 1 minute and 3 seconds and was still 15 seconds away. Anyway, I think the question was clear. You have the floor to answer, Mr Hugo Carvalho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must confess that I wondered whether the request for clarification was really for me. [[PSD laughter.]] It is that, clearly, you will not listen—and we are here so close—what I said. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] It's not in the nature of the PSD being here to leave everything in it. He's never been, and whoever's paying attention to the history of the country will know that. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u70	If the honourable Member thinks that it is the nature of the Members to leave the opinions that come to us from civil society and simply do not read them, he would also suggest that, now he has arrived — and with the welcome I give him, he would adjust that concept a little. Moreover, it will count on the PSD, as always this House counted, to transform the country in the best sense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u71	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech. I like to review here after the difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u72	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, in this debate we are discussing a letter of fundamental rights in the digital age. It has a beautiful name, as we have already heard, but the question is whether or not it makes sense to have a charter of fundamental rights in the digital age. The CDS understands that yes, it believes that it makes sense to have this letter, and it also makes sense to have a union between the parties and the parliamentary groups around a letter of this nature. I must therefore welcome here more the position of Mr. Hugo Carvalho, of the PSD, with a constructive perspective, than the intervention of a socialist Member, Mr. Bruno Aragão, in a very constructive logic. The CDS is available for this debate in a constructive logic. However, it is worth stressing the importance of these two initiatives, the Socialist Party and the NAP, which have objectives of which we are communicating: digital literature, combating infoexclusion and the Internet for all. We share these objectives. But let us be serious, this letter itself does not add any more rights, because there are rights already enshrined in the law. So, in this respect, it doesn't add and it doesn't bring any more. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] Don't bring any more, Mr. José Magalhães. And I must say, Mr. José Magalhães, that I saw the documentary you mentioned here, The dilemma of social networks. I advise everyone, it is very interesting, it awakens us to various problems of the social networks, of our society, of security, of the vulnerability to which we are subject, and that is, of course, worrying. But there are problems in these initiatives that we cannot escape - and in this debate some of them have already been listed - and that they have to do with, for example, the fact that these two initiatives are against the European orientation of promoting digitalisation and the guarantee of digital rights. These projects repeal copyright law, i.e. call into question copyright and creation rights. [[Protests by PS Member José Magalhães.]] And these diplomas do not prevent terrorism, ridicule and other illegal purposes either. There is something else, which is undeniable: these diplomas violate the European e-commerce directive. In other words, with the approval of these diplomas the following day, Portugal would be violating the law of the European Union itself. Not to mention in the deprotection that these projects bring about regarding sports rights, and that it is not just. This is, through the approval of these diplomas, any user can do a streaming, absolutely illegal, free, without punishment and therefore companies such as Sport TV or Eleven Sports, with the impacts that this would also have on clubs, would no longer exist. The CDS, of course, has a digital concern, which has to do with the country's coverage and with the effort that there has to exist to have more competition on the market as well. Those are the concerns we have. Now we also present here a challenge, a challenge to the Socialist Party, in a constructive and serious way, in order to lower these diplomas for discussion in committee. Let's get better! The intention is good. Being this good intention, the CDS is available to contribute, but this text, unfortunately, has parts in which it is very bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u73	I now give the floor to Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We live times of great changes, many challenges and therefore also great responsibilities. The changes are disruptive and areas such as digitization take on an undisturbed centrality. Although more than half of humanity has access to the Internet today, 5 million men and women worldwide are in cyber exclusion. This reality can compromise the human rights agenda, so it is urgent to place the potential of new technologies at the service of human rights. The UN ( United Nations ) has proclaimed access to the Internet as a fundamental right, and digital inclusion and literacy must be seen as a process of democratization, which promotes opportunities and greater economic and social development, allowing all and all greater integration into the information society. The digitization of society, this powerful development tool, brings with it important challenges, but also many dangers that need to be guarded, and that is also what we want to talk about today. The pandemic crisis has resulted in nude structural inequalities, but also the benefits of the expansion of the use of digital technological tools and the insufficiency in the protection of various risks. I stress from the outset that the technological sectors are highly masculine and that women continue to be strongly underrepresented in university courses in the field of ICT (information and communication technologies) and in the field of artificial intelligence. According to Eurostat data, women account for only 17 % of those enrolled in ICT courses in the European Union. We are therefore faced with a gender segregation that needs to be corrected with positive measures. Women cannot be excluded from access to a fundamental right in the 21st century of central communication and autonomy tools! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another area I want to talk about, of great risks and high dangers, is the misuse of the Internet to create channels and platforms that facilitate certain forms of sexual exploitation of women and children, threatening their rights and freedoms, as well as their autonomy, such as cyber persecution, cyber harassment, human trafficking, hate speech, discrimination and violation of fundamental rights. I leave a final note to the 'right to disconnect' and to the risks that the violation of that right may result in areas such as telework and reconciliation between personal, family and professional life. In reply to Mr José Manuel Pureza, I would like to say that we have left the question of telework from outside, on purpose, because it should be dealt with within the framework of social consultation. To conclude, I would like to say that the digital transition is one of the essential areas of the country's development strategy and that a number of programmes are under way that we have already talked about, as well as others about which we do not have time to talk about, but which are also in the government's programmes. I also want to say that universal access to the Internet, yes, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, is a fundamental right that has to reach all people, everywhere in the territory, so that we will not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u75	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to what I had recently had the opportunity to address the question addressed to the Socialist Party, I still wanted to leave some other elements of appreciation here for the proposals in question, particularly those of the Socialist Party, which gave rise to this agenda. I would like to say that, of course, matters relating to access to digital means, their use and the objectives to which this use should be used are very important. We have no opinion that access to digital media and the use of technologies, such as 5G, is a kind of pretext for someone to entertain themselves in moments of leisure and fun. The question is indeed this: the use of digital means must be considered as a powerful instrument of economic and social development and must be subjected to and subject to strategic options from the point of view of national policy — this is unquestionable — even though this decision and this approach to the problem lie with what is today the dominant approach. I am talking about the approach of using digital media based on the potential of markets that are exploited, in many circumstances based on the violation of individual, economic and social rights that are entered into our own Constitution. This is a first issue that needs to be addressed so that Portugal can indeed have strategic options in this area. The draft law which the Socialist Party here brings to us, as I said earlier, has this difficulty not to constitute itself as a proposal for a diploma which, in this dimension, realizes what our Constitution already has in relation to fundamental rights, but somehow seeks to be a founding diploma of a set of fundamental rights, which, to this end, would be created ex novo. However, the fact is that our Constitution has a huge collection of fundamental rights — indeed, translated into the chapter 'Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees' — which allows precisely that the operation is the reverse, i.e. that of the realization of these constitutional rights in terms of the use of digital means, e.g. in the right to personal identity and image, in the development of personality, in the right to information and freedom of expression, and even — I would add — in the right to pay for work, because this is also one of the important components that must be reflected here. How is the right to pay for work translated into this field of the use of digital means? The questions of telework are put here, but also the questions of the remuneration of intellectual, artistic and creative work. These are important issues to be addressed. for our part, for a long time we have even a proposal, presented in the cultural context, an objective solution to ensure the remuneration of creators and interpreters with the use of digital media. This continues to be a proposal which, although it has been submitted for the first time for almost 10 years, is highly advanced from the point of view of the possibility of using digital media, of the massification of access to artistic creation, of the potential for artistic dissemination and, at the same time, of the possibility of remuneration of creators and interpreters. Although we may have these different approaches, there are concrete solutions that must be found. The question is that, also from the point of view of digital rights, consideration of the issue of pay for work should be one of the issues identified and this is particularly evident in the approach made in the opinion of the Portuguese Society of Authors, but also in other aspects that have been brought here. In conclusion, I just wanted to address one more aspect related to the issue which I recently put to Mr José Magalhães. Mr. Deputies, looking at the headings of the Socialist Party bill, could say that we will agree with almost all of them. With regard only to the use of artificial intelligence and robots is somewhat more uncertain, but with regard to all other headings referring to rights, there is no difficulty in agreeing. The problem is what is then in the articulation and correspondence between the articulation and some of the legal diplomas. I will not make a story about this, I will read only part of Article 4 ( 2 ). the Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020, published on 23 March 2020 : « Companies providing public communications networks or publicly accessible electronic communications services shall be authorised to implement other network and traffic management measures, including blocking, slowing, amending, restricting or degradation of content, in respect of specific applications or services or specific categories thereof...', etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u77	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u78	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. José Magalhães, this is not compatible with the right to neutrality of the Internet!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u79	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. The neutrality of the network is a crucial aspect of the use of digital means, but it is not compatible even with the decree approved by the Government a few months ago. I could make other references here, as I recently did to the issues related to the collection of health data, in which the legislation we have today may also be inconsistent with some of the individual rights that are provided here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u81	Sir, I'm sorry, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u82	I conclude by thanking you for your tolerance. I want to say that the issues of consent and the right to information are, today, absolutely essential issues and that, in many circumstances, they cannot be satisfied only with increased requirements for access to information and the provision of consent, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u83	Mr President, tolerance, as you know, has a lot to tell you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u84	... may, in many circumstances, prevent the collection of certain individual data. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u85	You have the floor for one speech, Mr José Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u86	Mr President, I think it is better when the debate approaches brain surgery than when it pulsates in terms of voice intensity. I will therefore turn down my voice and stress that our concern, in this matter, is to make the cut, as precisely as possible, of each of the rights we think should be the object of the statue. We do not include any reference to the right of cultural property creators to remuneration because this matter is regulated by the Copyright Code. The authors in the European Union, in countries like ours, are entitled to a special code where, in a completely dense and long way, exactly the terms of that remuneration are defined. The rules we published and proposed in this field do not affect those which are in force and, of course, less, those which will be transposed by June next year, in accordance with the European Directive which has been adopted and which binds Portugal. It would be aberrant if a general law derogated from a European directive. I would lead a student of the first year of Constitutional Law who would appear to say - I think Mr. José Manuel Pureza or any of us who has some lights in Law would also do so - because we know that is not so, we know that lex generals does not have the power to revoke lex specialis. This is from the old Rome and it must be so until the journey to Mars. So there are things that should not be said, Mr John Gonçalves Pereira. I heard it with democratic humility, but what you just said transposes, into the plenary, a asshole that was linked by Audiogest and even, unfortunately, by my friends of the SPA (Portuguese Society of Authors) which, at this point, followed a bad advice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u87	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u88	I'm nothing! in this matter, it is not worth it—it does not climb the shoemaker beyond the chin! So let us not be impressed by this type of affidavits or observations and we will need the cut. Mr. João Oliveira, I think you have no reason to worry. We will not vote headings, we will have to vote concrete articulateds and we look forward, with great curiosity and with all the openness, to the proposals of the Portuguese Communist Party. We believe that we are converging with the aim of increasing rights and burling without replacing legislation that needs to go forward, such as the European Code of Electronic Communications. The code, which is also a large diploma and has to be approved by the end of this year, will define things as the broadband, such as the powers of ANACOM, such as violations of the principle of neutrality. It is right that the rule which has been established in the decree-law cited in order to give priority to certain traffic is an exception to the principle of neutrality, but it is an exception which the regulation governing that matter authorizes in cases where Member States determine it by appropriate means, and that is precisely the case. Fortunately, it was not necessary for operators to intervene in order to regulate traffic in accordance with the law. All of this will start from the work done here in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for which we are fully open in the light of the principles I have had occasion to set out. We believe that this debate is worth all the time, for everything in sight and for what will be regulated. So, for our part, let no one get scared and let's go to work! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u89	Mr Porfirio Silva is registered to intervene, but even with the bonus of time your party has the right to close, it has very little time. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party brought here this bill, which approved a letter of fundamental rights in the digital era, and, given the debate, it was worth it. In other words, the legislator in our country cannot be left behind an awareness that, progressively, the legislators of many other countries, and even at international level, have taken — and in which we cannot be distracted from the consequences — as far as the rights of people are concerned, what is happening in terms of the development of the digital era. If here are some objections, some doubts or some alternative ways of doing, we are not more pleased than this debate being on the table, because we have not come here convinced that we have discovered the ideal solution for a problem that is a complex problem. If history were to be circular, when new problems appear, we would go back to the previous cycle, see what was the solution and we would apply it, but things don't happen that way. We are faced with new realities, we are faced with new challenges, we are faced with circumstances that we have not yet experienced, therefore, from the point of view of law, from the point of view of social practices, from the point of view of the organization of society, we have much to learn and we have much to discuss, with each other, about the best way of doing it. Of course, it would never be our intention to go back in terms of rights already enshrined. We are aware that there is a constellation of correlated legal instruments that cannot all be put in this letter. The intersection between the world of work and the issues of the digital age are matters that concern us, but we have taken the deliberate choice to work on this in other instruments, as we have already publicly stated. It's not about being careless, because we're not. Our assessment of this first debate, in general, is that, both from the point of view of the parliamentary groups that have put forward proposals, and from the point of view of the parliamentary groups that have come to the discussion, there is here to deepen and to carry out our task. The digital put on the table important tools for social development and progress, but it also poses risks and challenges. We need to think about them and we need to find the best legislative solutions to answer them. In fact, I think we can be satisfied, because with the differences that have been shown, all Members, with the exception of the Member who came here to represent the fake news robots on social networks, have come here to build. That's what we're gonna do, wait for us, in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u91	We will now move on to the second item on our agenda, which is from the evaluation of the Draft Resolution No 532 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to identify and solve the problem of households in an irregular or illegal situation. Mr Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today draft resolution No 532 / XIV / 1. the, presented by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which recommends to the Government a set of measures to identify and solve the problem of households in an irregular or illegal situation. The pandemic caused by the COVID-19 came to bring the nude, in several areas, a set of weaknesses that, although not new, took on a redoubled concern during this new and unknown period for all and which reaches with greater incidence the most fragile and vulnerable of Portuguese society, the elderly. Mr. As and Mrs. Members, since the beginning of the disease of COVID-19 that the PSD has been demonstrating its concern with the homes, with the elderly living in legal and illegal homes, because they are, at the start, the most vulnerable in our society, taking into account their age and fragile health due to age. Following the complaint made public by the Home Support Association of Homes and Houses of old age ( ALI ) that there are 35 000 elderly people living in 3500 illegal homes in Portugal, in unknown whereabouts, social security also became public that was doing the survey and working with the other authorities, such as municipal chambers, civil protection and others, in order to safeguard the protection of the elderly, workers and the rest of the community. Now, the Social Democratic Party has, of course, accompanied the need for this uprising to take place. For PSD, if home problems are worrying, illegal homes are even more worrisome. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vulnerability of the users installed in these illegal units is high, from the outset due to the lack of monitoring of State structures. Moreover, at this stage of the pandemic, many elderly people and employees were outside the COVID-19 diagnostic tests and outside the radar, despite the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security saying that they gave the same type of treatment to legal and illegal home users. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if for the PSD the problem of homes is worrying, in illegal homes it is much more worrying, as I said earlier, because we do not know your whereabouts, we do not know whether or not there are contingency plans and, if they exist, if they are being met. Thus, in our view, the work announced by social security is going to be late, but it will be crucial to make known the true reality, in order to articulate synergies and to facilitate the work and performance of the entities on the ground, with this vulnerable population. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by its size and sensitivity, this is a matter that cannot and should not be ignored. The State and Parliament cannot continue to pretend that the problem of illegal homes does not exist until the capacity available at the level of ERPI responses (residential structures for elderly persons) would not be sufficient to accommodate all these situations resulting from an immediate closure, of all or part of these units. It is important to define and monitor a systematization of the actions to be developed after updated knowledge of the reality of these homes and to act, finding the most appropriate answers, safeguarding and protecting the elderly and most vulnerable population. It is therefore essential for the Government to analyse the possibility of flexibility of some existing standards and limitations in the organization and functioning of the homes of the elderly in order to extend their supply and capacity, always observing the quality requirements of this response. Therefore, the PSD, in a collaborative attitude, recommends to the Government a set of six measures with a view to raising, identifying, defining and systematizing the strategy and actions on the ground, and the creation of a financial instrument to support the changes that are necessary, through the conversion and legalization of homes in irregular or illegal situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in conclusion, I would like to reaffirm the urgency of the lifting announced by social security and reiterate that Parliament cannot continue to ignore the problem of illegal homes by two factors: by the size and sensitivity of the matter under discussion today. We therefore hope that Parliament will be able to unite around such an important issue for our elderly. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u93	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lack of information and diagnosis of illegal or irregular homes in Portugal must, of course, lead us to reflect on why they are based on the existence of social responses injured by legality or that work with irregularities. We know that there are no public social responses for all elderly people, that many of the answers that exist are priced that are only accessible to some, that many families do not, by imposing working hours and responsibilities, have the ability to provide care for their older relatives. We also know of neglect and violence against the elderly, which we must also fight. In the face of these problems, answers arise outside the legally recognized and regularised entity's agenda. In addition to raising and identifying illegal or irregular homes, we understand that it is necessary to go further and, from a national diagnosis, to implement the creation of a diverse and comprehensive set of responses, which have to go beyond those already specified, which are more tailored to the different conditions and needs of our elders. It is necessary to ensure that everyone can find the social response that is best suited to their needs, whether they are home support, whether they are senior homes, whether they are the support of informal caregivers, or others. In fact, the current health crisis has brought very difficult challenges, which can only be overcome with the Government's ability to communicate with professionals on the ground, with resource mobilization, ensuring its support and strengthening, with clear and coherent messages, with follow-up on the difficulties and proximity in identifying solutions. We recall that the national network of rapid intervention brigades, which should have been defined by the government at the beginning of this crisis, was announced late, being scheduled to run from 1 October, but with less than 61 professionals than had been announced — fewer nurses, less direct action assistants, less non-present physicians and nurses, under prevention regime. The implementation of the protocol signed on 4 September of this year between the Ministry of Labour, the Institute of Social Security and the Red Cross will be assured of the expected effects for the containment and stabilization of outbreaks in residential structures for elderly people and residential homes. In fact, we remember that on 26 September, the responsible coordinator of the Portuguese Red Cross still did not know how many people had been hired. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u95	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, we celebrate the international day of the elderly person and therefore we hope that it will also be the day of turn to deal with the necessary dignity of the elderly people in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u97	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the issue of homes and a proposal aimed at identifying and solving their problems. A few days ago, we all heard the Director-General of Health saying that the numbers themselves were contradictory in terms of the number of outbreaks that exist in homes and the conditions of supervision that exist for these same homes. We have heard the government promise that the brigades would be the great solution to the problem of homes. And what we had, a few days later, was that, after all, the number of members of these brigades was much lower than they had been promised and the number of cases resolved much less than the one that had been ambitioned and that the number of inspectors and inspection cases had decreased. Worse, we had the Medical Order saying that the cases of homes were very serious and that DGS (General Health Directorate) had not done everything I could to monitor these situations. This is where we come to this discussion, the fact that the Socialist Party and the Government have promised to solve the problem of homes and leave it as one of the greatest shame why Portugal has gone through the fight against COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u99	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u100	I will finish, Mr. President. We have had the elderly completely abandoned to their fate, without any plans that would allow them to be visited or visited. And we still have a huge surveillance problem, which is one of the biggest public health scandals in Portugal. And that is the fault of the Socialist Party government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u101	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The well-being of our elderly is a constant concern of the Socialist Party and the Government. We always looked at the older ones as someone to whom the country owes a lot. They were people who have worked their entire lives and now deserve respect and have a dignified life. We never saw the older ones as a weight or cost to the state, but, yes, as people to whom my generation and the younger generations owe a lot. That is why we see the PSD with great satisfaction now wanting to improve the lives of these people. It is with great satisfaction that we see the PSD, with this project, join the Socialist Party and the Government in the fight against this problem. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u103	And I do say « join », because many of the measures proposed by the PSD in the project have been implemented for a long time. The Socialist Party and the Government have promoted the effective strengthening of social cooperation since 2016, especially in homes, with an increase and improvement in the supply of vacancies in homes. But we also promoted and improved the monitoring, and since 2016 more than 2600 controls have been carried out to homes, which led to the lifting of more than 1600 cars, resulting in the closure of more than 500 homes. The Socialist Party, in addition to increasing the supply of homes, to monitor homes, has also made efforts to regularize « illegal » homes which are able to comply with the rules and simplify the licensing of new homes, eliminating double licensing, as we have created the PARES 3.0 ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ) programme, which provides for an investment of EUR 110 million for the expansion of the social equipment network in order to increase the capacity already installed. And, in preparation for next winter, which will be even more demanding, it is already guarded: creation of 18 rapid intervention brigades; telephone line of home support; new testing in homes according to risk criteria... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u104	Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you have more to hear. That is, we are already running what the PSD is proposing today. The same PSD that, while in the Government with the CDS-PP, took a single measure in relation to households, which was to increase the number of beds per room, without any concern about the comfort and health conditions of the users. This change in the PSD's thinking and attitude towards the well-being of the elderly is quite positive. Let us hope that it will be true, that it will erase the years of bad memory in which the elderly, for the PSD, were a kind of "grey plague", a cost to the state. Today, International Day of the Elderly, the Socialist Party reinforces its commitment to continue fighting for our elderly to have a dignified life. Because our elders, for all that they have given to our country, for all their wisdom and experience, are even the best that Portugal has. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u105	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The ageing rate in Portugal, which is close to 144 %, has clear implications for our social organization, and it is essential to ensure that the greatest longevity that people today achieve is accompanied by the guarantee of quality of life and well-being of the elderly. This situation ultimately requires adaptations and responses to various levels, including social security and health services, among others. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic establishes rights for the elderly population, in particular Article 72. the, which determines that :"1 - Older persons have the right to economic security and to conditions of housing and family and community living that respect their personal autonomy and avoid and overcome social isolation or marginalization. 2 - Age policy includes measures of an economic, social and cultural nature that tend to provide older people with opportunities for personal fulfillment, through active participation in the life of the community. Do not keep on seeking. ” Therefore, one cannot accept that the elderly population, after a lifetime of working and contributing to the development of the country, is unprotected at a stage of life in which it is especially vulnerable and sometimes isolated, a situation that runs counter to the National Strategy for Active and Healthy Aging 2017 - 2025, whose guidelines clearly point to social inclusion, to combating isolation and social marginalization. The answers we can find today are those offered by private spaces that often do not meet the needs throughout the country. The social network homes are overcrowded, without adequate human resources and resources, so changing standards is not the solution, but it can lead to more users, overloading workers and the few means. What the PSD here brings us is a certain option of responding to a problem that is real. What divides us is whether the state should comply with constitutional requirements and ensure the care of the elderly with conditions, with security, with comfort, from a public home network or whether, as the PSD intends, the State should deresponsibility to favor the business of some. I believe that, since it has profit as the only goal, it also has the problems that PSD identifies, but that it now wants to deal with some alterations in painting. what the PSD does not want to talk about is the urgency of an adequate response to primary health care, in particular assistance and support to the home, the need to increase pensions to ensure decent living conditions for the elderly, the regulation of working hours and the fight against precariousness, so that families have the necessary conditions to take care of their elderly and are not obliged to leave them in institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u107	To speak the next speech, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Noting today, the International Day of the Elderly, the CFP highlights the particularly difficult context that marks the life of those who belong to this social group, exponentially aggravated with the reality of the outbreak that the country faces, while reaffirming our commitment to the realization of a vast set of measures that ensure adequate protection of its health, the fight against social inequalities and poverty, the valorization of its pensions and the increase of its quality of life and well-being. We also recall the need for the implementation of a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic that recommends to the Government the promotion of ageing with rights and that it resulted from a proposal from the CFP, whose concrete measures, in the current context, increase importance, for example, the promotion of health and disease prevention, with primary care, the fight against isolation and loneliness, as well as the creation of a public network of support equipment for older people. Mrs. Members, the situation of the so-called 'illegal homes' has, of course, merit attention, discussion and, above all, concrete action and action so that the situations that exist today do not take place and that these situations do not recur in the future, which requires action that prevents similar future situations. We are, of course, talking about homes without authorisations or various licenses to operate for the most different reasons, including homes without conditions to accommodate users in the most various dimensions: physical conditions, hygiene, space safety, or even the existence of human and material means to respond to users. But we must also point out that in many homes with licenses and with permits to operate and that they receive money from social security the right conditions are also not guaranteed for their users, as has often come to the public, which must also deserve our intervention and our concern. A lack of conditions that is also related to the shortage of workers, a lack that goes far beyond the reality of the current context, because it is structural in a significant part of the institutions that ensure this response and that it could have already had a solution if the proposal of the CFP to strengthen workers for social equipment, including homes, had been approved and that the PS had voted against, together with the PS, the CDS and the IL. But it is also important to remember here that the reality of illegal homes—which, I repeat, has to be combated and resolved at once—is not today, it has been decades, having passed by the effective intervention of successive governments, including those of the PSD, which, we also remember here, the last time you were in the government with the CDS, has increased the number of vacancies in homes, without cautioning and without considering the conditions of many institutions to do so, waving them with money to put older people in the same space. And we remember this because the PSD puts on this initiative the 'flexibility of standards and limitations' to 'allow an extension of the capacity to accommodate the elderly'. The increased capacity to welcome and respond to the elderly is inseparable from the creation and implementation of a public home network, assumed and responsibility for social security, which ensures a quality response and according to the specific needs of a social group as heterogeneous as that of the elderly population. It is not by throwing responsibilities and money over the institutions that solves the problem of them and the response that the institutions are currently ensuring. The current context and the old problems, which have been there for a long time and which have come more to the tone in recent times, demonstrate well that it is necessary to extend the home network, with the creation of a public network, managed by the public sector. This is a fundamental answer to solve a wide range of problems and a path that the CFP will continue to defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u109	Also for an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, now has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, on the day when the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) 50 years ago, the workers of the IPSS ( private institutions of social solidarity) manifested themselves in the streets of Porto, remembering that, if their functions are so essential, then they should not be so devalued nor so little recognized, recalling the additional effort they did when they worked 24 over 24 hours, when they worked at weekends, without seeing their families. This additional effort continues to correspond to poor wages and a work overload without compensation. in this intervention, I wanted to begin by greeting them and expressing our solidarity here for their struggle, for they and for them, because they are many workers. The PSD brings us today to debate an important issue on illegal homes. About 3,500 illegal homes are estimated to exist in Portugal, where 35 thousand people live. The existence of illegal homes is a consequence of the combination of three problems: firstly, the shortage of supply supported by the State, the so-called'social network' ; secondly, the circumstances of homes not supported by the State carry out market prices which are impracticable to any family with average incomes; and thirdly, the fact that the transformations themselves in the family structures do not even have to bear all the burden resulting from all this shortage of public supply and social equipment. from the point of view of the Left Block, we can only really solve this problem with more public supply, in fact, with a public network of care for the elderly that allows to strengthen supply in this area. And also with an offer of another kind of answers, different from those that today are predominant. I speak of home support, the response of personal assistants, models such as cohousing, models such as independent life or responses that settle in people's autonomy, and, as far as possible, in the stay in their home, with autonomy and with support. What we do not doubt is that this problem is not solved by the legalization of structures which do not have conditions or by the lowering of the requirements on the quality of services, spaces and care provided to the elderly. The PSD, which today is a proposer, and the CDS, who was its partner of government in an earlier legislature, have at this level a sad story. It has already been recalled that in 2012 former Minister Mota Soares announced the flexibility of home rules, which was basically to allow in rooms that should be occupied by one person to become two people, that in rooms prepared for two people to become three people. It was to allow households with a maximum of 60 residents to have a maximum of 120 residents. It was to allow more people in smaller areas. Some of the rules that exist today in the homes have hampered the containment of the pandemic, precisely because there are no individual spaces, and therefore also hinder contingency measures. In addition, in 2013 the same Minister Mota Soares ended with the few public equipment that existed for the support of the elderly, making a social security order for the integrated establishments for the elderly to close. This is what happened, for example, with the home of the Fontainhas, in Porto, where about 200 elderly lived. The way we need is precisely the opposite of this. We do not need to close equipment or lower standards, which is also proposed in paragraph 5 of the PSD draft resolution: « to simplify existing standards and limitations in the homes in order to increase the capacity to accommodate elderly people ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u111	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u112	I conclude now, Mr President. We do not need more elderly people packaged in the same equipment, we need more public supply, support for caregivers, home support, a program of deinstitutionalization of care, if there are alternatives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u113	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All the previous speakers spoke about respect for the elderly and how they would respect them in their speeches, but there were several moments—and this is a personal opinion—that did not happen. Respecting the elderly is to realize that we are at a time of special pressure on their health conditions and on the conditions of operation of many institutions, which welcome them and treat them. Therefore, to be sensitive to the elderly was to have realized, since March, that it would be essential to have an intervention with the institutions that welcome them that would allow a substantial reduction in the risk that had already occurred in countries such as Italy or Spain. But unfortunately, at a first stage in Portugal, this risk has been reduced only by means of a partnership that has worked — it must be said! — between private institutions of social solidarity and authorities, because the central State did not arrive or, when it arrived, it was already late. This has been verified for individual protective equipment, verified for tests and will now be verified for the brigades, because we already realize that the criticism we made to the brigades has fallen short. We criticized the brigades for being created late, six months after the problem existed and we should have criticised them for appearing late and being insufficient, because between what was announced and what is actually to be created there is a great need to support the elderly. We have talked about several dates and, of course, the most important is that of the elderly, but today it is also a relevant day from a political point of view. The Socialist Party won the elections 25 years ago and since then has ruled 18. It was 18 years, not two, not three, not four. He ruled 18 years in 25 and therefore heard the Socialist Party say that the structural problems of care for the elderly are responsible for who was in the government seven years of these 25 years, when the Socialist Party was 18 and, only in this cycle, there are already six years ago... Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if everything was so bad because of a PSD and CDS government, why didn't you make it different? Why didn't you fix it? Why didn't you change? They've been in the government for six years and they haven't changed! They've been in the government for 18 years and they haven't done any better! Therefore, before they criticize, it is appropriate to see the responsibility that they effectively have in these problems. There is one thing I do not run away from, because it is a profound lie to say that what has been done in relation to the lotation of homes was of social insensitivity. What was done at that time was to hear what was said in the homes, to hear the private institutions of social solidarity say what was obvious, that there were blind rules, drawn in Lisbon offices by whom he had never entered a room of a particular institution of social solidarity and did not perceive otherwise, that is, that there were rooms where three beds fit and, because of the insensitive rules of Lisbon, only one was there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u115	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u116	I will finish, Mr. President. What you know is that if the home rental rules were insensitive they had already changed them. They have not changed them solely because these rules are right, and they make demagogy lying about what is reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close this point. [[Pause.]] After all, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo is also listed for an intervention. I wasn't, but it's over. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u118	Mr President, the registration of my requests for intervention to the Bureau will have to be reviewed, because this is no longer the first time that has happened. I was, in fact, inscribed and I am grateful to have given me the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u119	Mr President, I apologize for this delay and personally assume responsibility. Please speak, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u120	Mr. President, you have no problem. Portugal is, in fact, an increasingly aging country, and this is nothing new to anyone. That is one of the least developed countries in the European Union even less novelty is, unfortunately. But one consequence of these two facts — yes, often ignored — is that the overwhelming majority of our elderly people lack a remarkable quality of life and, for the most varied reasons, choose, or are forced to choose, to live in homes. In 2018, according to the latest known official data, the employment rate of legal households already exceeded 93 % and the same is true to say that they were full. Of course, the supply of legalized homes is insufficient for the search and it is precisely in this context that it has been encouraging the appearance of illegal homes a little everywhere, which become, for many families, the only option. Some of these homes have not been legalized by mere bureaucratic issues, others by objective lack of material conditions. What was the PS Government's solution to this problem? It was the already typical « I don't know and I don't want to know». Social security, which is responsible for monitoring these homes, has no simple mechanism for communicating and reporting irregularities, something that the Liberal Initiative intends to change with its recent bill for the creation of a platform for this purpose. We will follow the PSD proposal because it actually aims to increase monitoring and facilitate the legalization of homes in order to better guarantee the rights of the elderly. Within our strategy to protect the vulnerable and help others overcome fear, it is essential that the elderly be especially protected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u121	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u122	I will finish, Mr. President. A society that does not respect its elderly does not only show ingratitude, deny its own roots. [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u123	Mr President, I apologize again for the time being for the Bureau. Now, yes, to close this item on the agenda, with an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would like to say that Parliament could not have chosen a better date to discuss such an important issue, which both tells our elderly people and the International Day of the Elderly. We have given a signal, but more than that, the PSD has brought concrete measures to solve the problems of the elderly in irregular or illegal homes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u125	I would like to emphasise the seriousness of Parliament, or of some parties in this Parliament, who have been able to hold a very serious debate on a very important issue. It is to highlight once again the sensitivity and dimension of this issue. The PS presented the debate saying that I am very concerned about the elderly. Mr President, I cannot understand or understand how the PS does not get ashamed of the way the elderly have treated this pandemic. [[PSD applause.]] An example of this is the rapid intervention brigades. I shall repeat to you what I said yesterday at DGS, with Dr. Graça Freitas : « The mountain has made a mouse », Mr. The Minister has come to announce to Parliament 400 professionals and, in fact, we have 339 staff available, but nurses and doctors are working at a distance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u126	That was the promise and that was what the Socialist Party wanted to bring to provide security for the homes and the elderly there. Further, I wanted to highlight the importance of this debate and of the elderly for the PSD Parliamentary Group. We are available, as we have always been, to debate their causes and are concerned. I also wanted to enhance the role of all the officials of the institutions of social solidarity, both legal and illegal homes. The Minister said she had given equal treatment to each other, but whoever had given this treatment was the one who gave the body and the face to treat and care for these people, at a time when the country did not know all this and when many of the decisions that the Socialist Party should have made were made through directives, orders, announcements, but which in reality, in fact, have been reduced to very little. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u127	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u128	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we want to be part of the solution and we hope that tomorrow Parliament will have the ability to join in such important matters as this and to give a positive signal to all our elderly people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u129	We thus concluded the discussion of the Resolution Project No. 532 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ). Before we enter the third item on the agenda, the Bureau wishes to congratulate Mr Adam Silva, who is in motion in the Chamber, because today is his birthday, a surely happy date. This is our compliment, Mr. Deputies. [[General applause.]] We are now entering the third item on the agenda, with the joint discussion, in general, of the Bills No. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a maximum ceiling for the value of the two. o is 3. studies and postgraduate cycles in public higher education, 492 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of tips in public higher education and 497 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Limits the change in the value of the tips of professional higher technical courses and of the courses of the 2. o is 3. the cycles of studies in public higher education. To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the Higher Institute of Economics and Management ( ISEG ), a Master in Accounting, if we add the tips of the first and second years, it makes a total cost of €6850. The master's offer of the Instituto Politécnico do Porto in the area of Applied Development Practices has a cost for the student of 4500 € per year. The New School of Business and Economics ( New SBE ) set the value of its Master's degree in Management in order of 11,900 €. The MBA (Master of Business Administration) in this same institution, which shares with the Catholic University and MIT, has a base value of €32 000, to which €4000 should be added for delivery of the thesis. Only the fixed registration rate is € 3000, equivalent to about five national minimum wages. Propine policy truly creates obstacles to access to higher education for low- and medium-income families, disincentivising higher education in a country which already knows inequality in access to so many public rights and goods, and which at the same time needs to improve its qualifications. But worse, the propina system perverts two central principles of social democracy. First, that access to rights cannot depend on financial capacity and then on social justice through a progressive fiscal policy, as it is in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We are therefore faced with a serious problem of clear contradiction between the role of the public university and the Constitution, on the one hand, and the deprivation of this right to most citizens, on the other. This has led, in a free-choice context, many of the higher education institutions use the tips of the second cycle, the third cycle and postgraduate courses as a way to create a training offer for a social and economic elite, excluding most of the students in this country. By analyzing the national and international picture of employment, it is increasingly essential to obtain a master's degree or a doctor's degree in order to seek to work in the desired professional or scientific area. This pressure, which accompanies the path of constant and progressive specialization in each area of study, is now used by some universities, not as an argument to democratize access to these cycles of studies, but rather to make them financially inaccessible to most of the population. Adding to this problem arises the fact that some of these values are changed in the middle of the study cycle. Students enrolled in that cycle of concrete studies, in the master's degree or in the doctorate should be entitled to schedule their spending in the long term, i.e. throughout their academic course. When any higher education institution increases these costs—and, in general, increases them - always substantially—the probability of dropout also increases. This happens now, for example, at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Porto, in which, with the increase in the value of master's tips, very possibly a set of students will abandon this cycle of studies. These students organized themselves, sent a letter to Reitoria and are in protest. So I greet them, not only to them but also to all those who do not give up in a democratic higher education where no one stays behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u132	Today, the choice is to avoid an overview like the one that lives in the United States, for example, where the debts that students have contracted in loans to pay their tips amounts to $1 billion and $600 billion. We could even, in a joke way, ask if anyone who wants to study could sell the house or the car. Very possibly, these students don't even have a house or a car that they can sell to pay for their studies. We are facing a problem that is political, social and economic, but it is also constitutional. We need to stop the abuse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u133	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 'All have the right to education with the right to equal opportunities' — that is what our Constitution says. It also says our Constitution that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure access to the highest levels of education for all citizens and to establish progressively the freeness of all degrees. However, and despite the strong opposition of the students, since 1992 the path adopted has been contrary to these designs. The tips are a wall that has been erected over decades from PSD government to PS government, one and the other making a board of the importance of higher education and its universality. Instead of progressively free of charge, higher education has gradually become more expensive: from indexed to minimum wage, as the PS had sworn in 1997, the tip has reached the two minimum wages — €1067 when the last PSD / CDS government ended. Only in 2016, with a lot of student struggle and a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, it was possible for the first time to freeze the value of the tip and from there start an inverse path — slow, insufficient, but for the first time, in a descending sense. Since there are props that the PCP insists on its abolition. It is sometimes lost that we presented the proposal here, in this House, and that it hit ahead with those who say they are concerned about equal opportunities and school dropouts, but that they do not cease to have an elitist look at higher education. This is not just a matter of assuming, as a country, that all young people are in fact equal in rights and opportunities and can reach as far as they want in their training. For this, we need to end the tips, strengthen the social action of school and also eliminate all the factors of inequality, in the authentic race of obstacles that will leave the children of the workers and those who lack the way. by keeping the tips, what is being said is simple: you can only access a course, a master's degree or a doctorate who can afford it. That's it. But it is not only: it is also a bad political option. No country that wants to develop neglect of education, science and technology and furnishes thousands of higher education or places higher education institutions to seek their own revenue to survive. COVID has once again shown that we need to make investments and options to move forward. We need more production, more knowledge, less technological dependence. Higher education has a fundamental role here: it is a strategic factor of national development and it must be financed, and not, as it is happening, to suffer financial strangulation, infrastructure degradation, precarious working conditions and waste the energy of thousands of young people, who are simply excluded because they cannot pay. It's fair and it's due to the new generations that end the propines. It's an option that the moment demands. We cannot let the pandemic become an outbreak of dropout. The student associations have brought us worrying information and it is in the hands of the parties that are here — for once! — adopt a measure with a huge impact on the life of young people. It is not surprising that the same ones who oppose the end of the tips, with the argument that the rich also stop paying, are exactly the same ones that then do not want to tax profits, fortunes and speculation and thus relieve the lowest incomes and have better public services. The CFP argues that full compliance with the Constitution is due to the repeal of the tips in public higher education, ensuring the access and frequency of students to the highest levels of education, having the economic conditions they have. For this, a strategic investment plan is needed to cover the abolition of the payment of propines and the material and human conditions of the institutions. The proposal of the CFP that we are discussing today defends this precisely: that, in two years, the propines of all cycles are effectively eliminated, transferring the corresponding funds to the institutions and always guaranteeing the support of the social action of school to all that they need. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to respond to the outbreak and counter the deepening of social inequalities, in order to ensure that every young person equal opportunities can be trained according to his or her abilities, in order for the country to advance in development, in order to combat scientific and technological dependence; because this is an investment with guaranteed return and because it is fair and necessary: it is time to approve the end of the propines! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u135	To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to ensure better responses to students, families and institutions in order to be the guarantor of quality and effective equality of opportunity for all those seeking higher education, whether after secondary education, or in the strengthening of competences throughout life. We bring this proposal because we accompany the concerns of students and families, understanding their legitimate sense of injustice when they are confronted with propine values that become impractical for individual or family incomes. With the breakdown of revenue due to the loss of international students during this period, there were several higher education institutions that changed the value of the tips for students who were already attending a cycle of studies. It's unfair. This change in propine values during the training course is unfair. It is neither transparent nor ethically defensive to create starting conditions that then call into question the options, expectations and investments of students and even families. You can't change the rules in the middle of the game, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We know that the Higher Education Financing Act ensures the establishment of limits for the tips relating to integrated masters, but it leaves the institutions free to apply the values to the tips relating to the frequency of the 2. o is 3. the training cycles, as well as the STECF itself (higher professional technical courses). As a result of this institutional 'freedom', we have seen absolutely excessive and unacceptable values which do not dignify higher education, which must be required seriousness and transparency in the procedures. The definition of these values is often justified by the need to ensure the sustainability of the institutions and the costs associated with the courses served, but the sustainability of these institutions cannot be carried out at the expense of students or families, depending on their economic and financial power. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for example, the University of Porto understood how appropriate it was to approve the increase, between €50 and €375, of the value of the annuity of the masters of this institution for national students. The increase was also extensible to the international and international students of the CPLP (Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries), which, more badly, saw their propines increased by well more than 1000 €. Thus, these increases in monthly budgets vary between €5 and €168, but, Mrs and Mrs. Members, some colleges have already informed students of a possible second increase. in this scenario of health crisis, we redoubled our concerns with students of greater economic vulnerability, so the NAP presented several bills, in particular ensuring the adequacy of the payment of propines in higher education than the exceptional situation of COVID-19 and even the creation of an extraordinary mechanism for regularization of debt due to non-payment of propines. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the possibility of higher education must be a right of all and not only those who can afford it. That is the only way that it can be considered truly inclusive and democratic. And it is not just to ensure the construction of meaningful personal life projects, but because it must be assumed as a strategic axis of national development. Access by all to quality higher education will allow higher levels of scientific literacy, greater capacity for innovation in companies, greater connection between scientific knowledge and responses given in public services and in the community and, no less important, even in support of political decision-making. Access to higher education cannot be a luxury, it cannot be a trap for one to the detriment of others. Without prejudice to the necessary debate on the financing model of higher education institutions, we consider this type of response essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u137	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is a question of justice, fairness, transparency and genuine opportunity for all and any student, and we therefore leave the challenge here to the other parliamentary groups so that they can, of course, follow this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u139	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Block, PCP and PAN bring us today a discussion, which is not new, about the existence of tips in higher education in general or at least about the centralized determination of its maximum value, now also in the 2nd. o is 3. or cycles. The discussion that the left brings us is always based on two ideas: on the one hand, the principle of free education — forgetting that this free education applies to its compulsoryity, which is exhausted in 12. the year,... [[Protests from BE Luís Monteiro and PCP MP Alma Rivera.]] ... and it makes sense that anyone who wants to go further pays part of the costs of this personal investment, since it will also benefit personally from that return—and, secondly, the idea of the intentional elitistization of higher education, forgetting this time that the instrument that guarantees that no one stays behind for economic reasons is a strong, effective and unburocratized social action. These have been the lines that the CDS has defended to ensure greater access and effective frequency of those who really want to study in higher education. It should be noted that, despite the existence of propines, every year, or almost every year, the number of students competing and accessing higher education has been systematically increasing. And, on school social action, I even congratulate the Government this year for finally understanding that, in view of the scarce offer of accommodation, the immediate solution to solve this problem was the contractualization with the private and social sectors, which the CDS had been defending for so long and which now it has finally seen the light of the day. But, returning to the projects under discussion, although the principle that we defend was not that of the existence of propines and a combined social action school, it is neither possible nor serious to present this discussion looking only at one side of the equation, the side of the demand. We must also look at the side of the offer and its financing. The gentlemen. Members know very well, even because they denounce it whenever they can, from the chronic underfinancing of higher education institutions. They know of the inability to hire teachers for career entry, they know of the technological limitations of many schools, they know of the buildings to need works, among many other things, and therefore administratively limit the few degrees of freedom and generation of revenue that allow to maintain the quality of the offer is to condemn the quality of that same offer or even its existence. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can make access cheaper, or it may even be at zero cost, for all students, regardless of whether they are able to pay, but we would also pay for this with a lower quality of training or simply condemning it to its closure. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, without great surprises, the CDS will not follow the overallity of all these projects and will be very attentive to the position of the Government, which in these matters has been all less incorrect and linear. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u141	For an intervention on behalf of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic determines that it is up to the State to " progressively establish the freeness of all degrees of education" and that "the system of access to university and other institutions of higher education guarantees equal opportunities and democratisation of the education system". The requirement for the payment of propines, to which the exorbitant costs of accommodation are added, as well as all the costs associated with the frequency of this level of teaching, is, for many young and their families, a factor of demobilisation or impossibility of frequency of higher education, because many families cannot lead to the payment of the values in question. In the degrees of master and doctorate, the values of propins are, in some cases, astronomical. The news that comes to us from tips that reach several thousand euros is unacceptable in a country that wants to promote equal opportunities and rights. The news of very significant increases in this time of pandemic is, to all titles, unjustifiable. Higher education in Portugal cannot accentuate discrimination and the political options that have generated increases in propines — some so substantial — have competed for this discrimination and for effective elitism. The higher qualifications of citizens must be seen as an investment by the State, which will also receive their return, through the work and knowledge that citizens will produce. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] The Greens have defended here a new model of higher education funding, with fair and transparent criteria. This new financing model, in order to be fair and consistent with the Constitution, will necessarily pass through the progressive elimination of propines and the strengthening of the values of the State budget for higher education. In recent years, the suspension of the system of updating propines in higher education institutions has been stipulated. This provision allowed the value of propines not to increase and even if a decrease was achieved, but it is necessary to ensure that this value gradually decreases to the freeness of all grades of teaching. It is, however, necessary to ensure that this path takes place throughout all cycles. Setting maximum ceilings or limits for increases is not enough. The Greens take as their objective and orientation, in the country's educational policy, the end of the tips paid by higher education students and we therefore welcome the proposal that implements this orientation, which will not be realized unless there is political will. Let us hope that this step can now be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is not registering any more entries at this time and, therefore, if there are no more interventions, we will be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u144	Mr President, if I may, I would like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u145	Please, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Melo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills presented today call us to discuss a theme vital to the development of our country, which is the access and frequency of the different study cycles and their tips. For this discussion we bring some data that we cannot forget. Propins, whether they relate to undergraduates, masters or doctorals, are framed in the context of a macro system. It has already been said here, and we remember again, that in 2015 the tip for the degree was €1063 and today it is €697. In five years, this tip was reduced by about 400 €. This value cannot be spaced. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u147	This path, this reduction was a path that the Socialist Party made with the parties on its left and corresponds to a 35 % decrease in value, which, as it is perceived, greatly relieved the expenditure of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u148	It's true! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u149	This is a way we're proud of. We are also proud that for the second time consecutively, we have established a legislative contract which guarantees stable funding for higher education. We are proud to have increased social support: we have higher scholarships and scholarships and, for the first time, in this academic year, we have the minimum value of the scholarship above the value of the tip, an impact measure on the budget of our families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group defends the access and frequency of higher education in a democratic way, but we remember that there are a large number of proposals that need to be consolidated and that will guarantee invaluable value to this sector of society. We want a higher education capable of « continuing to bet on strengthening institutions of higher education and the Portuguese scientific system ». We want to consolidate « their capacity to respond to new problems, identifying and developing skills for the future, continuing investment in capacity for the production and dissemination of knowledge, in strengthening the training of researchers and in mechanisms to stimulate collaborative and multidisciplinary work ». We defend an increase perspective that puts on the democratization of higher education, ensuring that all the steps taken are solid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u150	Thank you very much, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, and I apologize for my mistake, recently, in your name. Mr Duarte Marques, from the PSD, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u151	Mr President, I think we all share the concern to ensure that all students have access to higher education and higher education so that they can continue their lives and have the best possible conditions. That is why there is social action at school and that is why, over the last 30 years, it has actually improved and allowed access to a lot more people. We also know that many of us, over the past few years, have come to this House to discuss this matter, trying to find the best solutions for students. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time to clarify what we want to tell the students. The PCP comes here to defend the end of the propines; the PSD was never in favour of the end of the propines;... [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u152	We know that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u153	...the Block has also defended the end of the promenades; the Socialist Party is in favour of the end of the propines in electoral campaign, but then, when it gets in here, it sits and shuts up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u154	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u155	Several Members of the Socialist Party are always against the propines, they are against everything that can make the propines grow, they are against the existence of propines, ideologically, but then they arrive at the Assembly of the Republic and lose their minds, they remain silent. The Left Block and the PCP are at the end of the tips, except when they are negotiating the State Budget, i.e. when they arrive at the debate of the State Budget and the negotiation with the Socialist Party, the end of the tips is no longer a priority, it remains for the draft resolutions. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] That is why, today, I ask: and this year, what is it? It's another theater that now makes to, after the negotiation of the State Budget, drop this project... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...and later they could say « ah, but we back there presented a draft resolution and you voted against »? Oh, my God! Yeah, that's what we have to tell the students! We have to say, after all, who assumes that this is a priority to enable a State budget and who only does theatre, in electoral campaign or in Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u156	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u157	...and presents projects that are to drop. It is that, at the moment of truth, when it depends on the PCP or the Left Block to approve a State budget, this matter is like that of the tolls, it remains behind. So we have to clarify: is it to be serious or is it not to be serious? [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] It is that what happens, and it is true—in this, the Left Block and the PAN are right—that, in fact, there is a chronic underfinancing in higher education, which has worsened. The Government does not comply with the legislative contract and the institutions are obliged to increase the limits of the two. o is 3. the cycles of studies,... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ...in a way that, we agree, is unfair: they do it in the middle of a cycle of studies. This is unfair! But, you know, my lords, they only do it because they're out of money. It is that the government came here to the House to promise that there was money to confront the COVID, but there was no. And the gentlemen. Rectors also came here to make a sad figure, because they said there was no money and now they're missing. That is why there has been an increase in propines and rates in institutions. [[Protests of PS Members.]] So it's time we put an end to this hypocrisy and tell everyone what we've seen. I understand the intention of the NAP, the Bloc and the PCP, which are concerned about the students, but I want to know what will really happen, because, my gentlemen, it is a shame what the government has done with the institutions. With the funding he wanted to present for the creation of university residences, he deceived the principals, deceived the students and deceived the Portuguese. It is customary to require 4 % of interest to finance the construction of residences. That is why, with this funding, they did not make a single new residence. It's a shame what the government has done, it's a shame your convience,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... because they tricked the students, the Portuguese and, fortunately, they couldn't fool the ladies. Regents. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u158	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I wanted to clarify that what the Constitution, that the CDS so abhors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u160	‘So abhorrent’? Oh, my God! Mr. Member, have a judgment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u161	... says they are progressively free of all degrees of teaching. Therefore, this is at least a trendy interpretation. Moreover, the end of the propines is not only a Portuguese idea or only of the PCP. I recall that Austria, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Greece, Norway, Sweden — and we could continue — have no tips.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u162	And how much do you pay the teachers? You went to see, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u163	You are concerned about funding for the institutions, which is something we are also concerned about, which is why our project envisages the transfer of this value to the institutions. Do you know how much it costs to pay the tips a year? It's 300 million! So why are they not disturbed by the fact that last year the Portuguese State has forgiven, on tax bills, 10 times that value? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u164	You have to talk to the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u165	It was EUR 3.2 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u166	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u167	I can't hear them talk about it. In fact, this discussion is not new, because it is not new school dropout, it is not new all the students who, throughout history, have been left out for not having money, and the historical moment, the moment of truth will be tomorrow, when the PCP bill is voted on. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u168	It is voting in the State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u169	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we now turn to the conclusion of this debate, to what you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: at this conclusion of the debate on projects related to propines, I would like to leave some information on what has been said. Firstly, the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic is very clear: it is not only the required degrees of education that must be free, it is all degrees of teaching. So, on this, there seems to be no big doubt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u171	It says « tendentially», to begin... That word no longer works...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u172	Then there is a capital sin on the right in the debate about the end of the tips versus the model of strong social action. Finally, what are you talking about? Members are proposing—but they are not doing so, because they are ashamed—is any higher education student, for example, a teacher who costs €32 000, to have access to a minimum grant of €32 000, paid by social action services? Is that what you're proposing?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u173	Of course not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u174	What's that master?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u175	It's just if you're saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u176	What's that master?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u177	It is not to speak louder and to shout out that you are right, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u178	But what is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u179	Therefore, the capital sin on the right is to assume whenever, in response to the question of propines, they want more social action. But you will have to say whether, for teachers who cost €10 000 or €30 000, they will give students a minimum grant of €10 000 or €30 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u180	You didn't hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u181	No one answers that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u182	No, no, I talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u183	But we understand it's a complicated subject for CDS and PSD. On sub-financing, it is interesting to see that one of the universities presenting a report of accounts with quite a budgetary margin is exactly the one that practises the highest value of propines. Therefore, the problem is not underfunding, the problem is the abuse of what should be free teaching and the view that part of the rhetoric today has about its mission as public universities, which are not fulfilling — I repeat, that are not fulfilling. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not worth hiding in the logic of strong social action,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u184	But which one to hide? I'm not hiding anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u185	...because the end of the tips fails and the strong social action fails. It's really a lesson for the elites, with which the Block wants to finish. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the fourth and last point of our afternoon. We will jointly appreciate, in general, the Lein.o 18 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Improves the allocation rules and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules relating to vocational training by amending Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November and 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends and improves access conditions and periods of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit( 17 ). the amendment of the Legal Protection Scheme in Employment ). To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The most recent data for August of this year point to more than 409,000 unemployed registered throughout the country - are more than 105 000 unemployed than in the 2019 homologous period. More than 46 000 are under 25 years of age and more than 30 000 are unemployed after first employment. Long-term unemployment accounts for around 37% of these numbers. Approximately 6500 families have both spouses in a state of unemployment. By August 2020 455 collective redundancies took place — more than 110 in all 2019 — involving almost 11 000 workers. There are just over 224 000 workers who have unemployment protection benefits. And these numbers will be joined by tens or hundreds of thousands of workers who are not registered in employment centres, who do not have access to unemployment benefit or other benefits, and are in a position of enormous disprotection and social fragility. It is this social reality that it is not possible to ignore and that requires urgent answers to address immediate situations and also to ensure answers for the future. This reality of unemployment, which today deepens and accentuates, is not disconnected from successive policy options and legislative changes of PS, PSD and CDS, which weaken social rights and protection. PSD and CDS, the last time they were in the government, facilitated lay-offs, leaving in the hands of the patronate the power to fire anytime and whoever you want, and offered hand-kissed redundancies to the patronate at a balance price. In the last amendment to labour law, the PS not only refused to eliminate the serious standards of labour law, as it introduced elements that exacerbated the precariousness and social protection of workers, such as the experimental period or the extension of contracts of very short duration. over several years, successive changes to the rules for the allocation of unemployment benefit, developed by successive governments, have resulted in lower social protection. And it wasn't just economic goals that were behind these options. The objectives were to create conditions to aggravate the exploitation of those who work, knowing well that a worker without social protection, in a situation of vulnerability, is more easily pushed to accept any job, any type of contract and any type of time or working conditions. Today, workers are more easily dismissed and have less social protection, because there were previous governments that took this political option. In recent times, the pretext of the virus, many experimental workers, with temporary work, outsourcing or false green receipts were of the first to be considered disposable by the bosses. Their work precariousness meant the precariousness of their social protection. Many workers who have been in layoff situations and have suffered cuts in wages and other components of their remuneration are now confronted with dismissal and unemployment. Mrs. Members, the CFP has put forward several proposals for the defence of employment, for the maintenance of wages throughout, in addition to its necessary valuation, for the fight against precariousness and for the strengthening of social protection. The right to employment, stability and security in employment, social security and protection in unemployment are rights with constitutional consecration. In order to achieve this, combating precariousness and unemployment, ensuring the creation of rights jobs and effective exploitation of wages are the necessary answer for thousands of unemployed people to need security and stability to be a reality in their daily life and in their families. The right to social protection, being a right of workers, is also an appreciation of their contribution career and the discounts that are made for social security. Unemployment represents one of the biggest economic and social scourges, being a determining factor in severe poverty situations and being an effective tool for the worsening exploitation of workers by reducing the cost of work and degradation of working and living conditions. The social disprotection of many thousands of unemployed people is one of the problems of unemployment, as a result of successive changes to the rules on the allocation of such benefits. In the past legislation, the intervention and proposal of the CFP have allowed the cut-off of 10 % in unemployment benefit, based on criteria and justice in the allocation of this social benefit and restoring rights and income to workers in this situation. If we have stated at various times that it is essential to ensure more workers and better social protection in situations of unemployment and if we have put forward proposals in this regard, today, in view of the economic and social reality we have, this need is even more urgent. We therefore propose strengthening social support for unemployed workers, in particular under conditions of allocation, the amount and duration of unemployment benefit. We propose the extension of the period of allocation of benefits, we reduce the guarantee period, we strengthen values and propose the increase of 25 % of these benefits in unemployment situations for both members of the couple or in the case of single-parent families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u188	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u189	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. With these amendments, the CFP makes a significant contribution to improving this important social protection mechanism and to strengthening this fundamental right of workers. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u190	To present the NAP initiative, Mr Nelson Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health crisis has led to a huge increase in unemployment and the most penalized are young people. They are the young people who were in the last month of the internship, with the promise that they would have a contract that ended up not arriving; they are the newly licensed young people, who were in the experimental period of their first job and that the COVID-19 beat to unemployment; they are the young people who were in contract for six months, with an effective bond promise for a short time, and that the COVID-19 first placed in layoff and then in the ranks of unemployment. at this moment, one in four young people are in the same ranks. The country has failed its young again, but, contrary to what happened in the times of the troika, we must have the sensitivity to correct the faults and not to turn their backs on them, abandoning them to their fate or inviting them to leave the country. I well know this reality, which forced me to leave my country in order to have an opportunity for professional success and personal fulfillment. at this stage, for young people, the NAP argues that there are challenges that can be translated into three key words: to protect, respect and dignify. Protection at the moment requires two types of measures: on the one hand, it requires that the periods of guarantee of unemployment benefit and other social benefits be extended, even if only during the period of the health crisis; on the other hand, it is crucial that the next State budget gives a basic emergency income that protects all those who do not currently have any support. Respect is assured by concrete measures, such as that which the NAP brings to the discussion today and which aims at something very simple: to ensure that the vocational training offers made by the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Educação Professional) are appropriate to the profile, school qualifications and professional projects of the unemployed or young. Is the best we have to offer to newly licensed law, economics, history or arts, who only look for an opportunity to enter the labour market, courses in areas that have nothing to do with their choice of study or purpose of life? This is where our social state fails and, in particular, the IEFP. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is psychological violence to tell a young man that there is no alternative and that the studies he has are useless, that he has to adapt. Therefore, today, the NAP challenges all political forces to end this injustice, through the adoption of this simple proposal, to show that they are on the side of respect for all the unemployed and that they do not close the door to dreams. Finally, the last verticle is that of dignity. Dignity is, for the NAP, to ensure that economic recovery will not be a return to the past of precariousness, based on professional stages and six-month contracts that, due to a thousand and an apology, never pass the contract without term. The NAP will present a number of proposals in this regard, including the creation of a youth supply, but by 15 October Parliament will discuss a simple package of NAP proposals in the field of work. We propose that the experimental period of people seeking the first job be reduced from current 180 days to 90 days. We propose that the scope of the use of very short-term employment contracts be reviewed to ensure that better conditions for greater employment stability are met in the future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge is under way. The NAP here will, as always, be to build bridges and open to the submission of proposals. What we are asking is that not the barricades on the left or on the right make us fail, again, towards our young people and people in unemployment. We know, all of us, to show that we care and take the measures that the occasion requires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u192	To present the initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crisis we live in has shown the deep gaps in our social protection system. Hundreds of thousands of people, starting with the precariouss that were discarded in full crisis, have lost their jobs and have been without access to any protection in unemployment. To this end, they contribute precarious forms of employment, which do not protect from dismissal and do not allow access to social benefits, especially because there is no guarantee deadline. For this, it contributes to the large informal workload. To this end, it contributes to the weakness of the protection of self-employed. To this end, it contributes to the fact that unemployment subsidies have undergone changes in their coverage and value since 2010. In 2020, some extraordinary support and new temporary rules were created, such as the reduction of the guarantee period, to facilitate access to existing benefits. It is only that the situation remains unsustainable. Most of the unemployed have no protection in unemployment and the social unemployment allowance is absolutely affordable: about 10 000 people, less than 2 % of the total number of unemployed. On the other hand, we still have unemployment benefits below the poverty threshold, the last known value of which is €502. The minimum amount of unemployment benefit, which people paid with their contributions, is about 80 € below the poverty threshold. The minimum value of the social unemployment allowance, a provision of the solidarity system that should serve to combat poverty, has a value of 150 € below the poverty threshold. It is not surprising, therefore, that the unemployed are the most vulnerable to poverty in Portugal. Between 2005 and 2018, the poverty risk rate of the unemployed increased by 50 % from 28 % to 42 %. I mean, the problem was already coming back. About a decade ago, the Socialist Party's government made structural changes, with a huge impact on unemployment benefit. The calculation of the minimum and maximum values ceased to have as reference the national minimum wage and the concession periods were changed. The right, PSD and CDS, from 2012 onwards, accentuated this path and the consequence was a reduction of protection time for workers, particularly those with lower contributory careers. The same happened in the social unemployment allowance, with the difficulty in accessing it because of the condition of resources, which excludes most people. Even today, in this field, the triple retreat occurred during the time of the troika: the cut in the value of the benefit, in the duration of the grant period and in the condition of resources of the social allowance. None of these measures have been reversed. The only cut eliminated in the previous legislation in this field was 10 % in the value of the benefit at the end of 180 days, and we managed to put an end to the humiliating and useless fifteen-day presentations. For all this, it is necessary to respond to those who have lost their jobs and that response must be a priority of democracy. What the Left Block proposes with the bill it presents today is that the guarantee deadlines are halved, that the condition of resources for access to the social unemployment allowance is improved and that its amount is increased, and that it is equal to both the resource condition, or the amount of the grant, and the poverty threshold. What we propose is that the minimum and maximum limits of unemployment benefit be converted to a proportion of the salary for which people have discounted and not the social support indexer. What we propose is that the periods for granting unemployment benefit be restated, also increasing those for social benefit and thus protecting more people. In addition, we have stressed that it is necessary to move forward with the creation of a social income of citizenship, capable of covering all workers who have been unprotected. That is the only way we will make it possible for the desire not to leave anyone behind to be truly more than a slogan. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u194	I have the floor, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of unemployment continues to reach thousands of workers, who are faced with many problems and, most of the time, even to severe poverty. If unemployment figures were already worrying before the pandemic crisis, now, as a result of this, they gain an even more frightening dimension. In fact, with the pandemic crisis, thousands and thousands of people have not only been without their jobs, as they have still not been able to access any unemployment protection. This situation has shown not only that the social protection system does not respond properly to the problems it wants to solve or mitigate, but also that the fight against job insecurity continues to be necessary. Let us see: the fact that the Government is obliged to adopt measures of a temporary nature, in particular with the creation of new social benefits, is effectively confirming the weaknesses and shortcomings of our social protection system. But these inadequacies, which multiplied the injustices and became more visible with the pandemic, were not born with this crisis. In fact, the social disprotection of unemployed people comes very behind and is not disconnected from the changes to the rules and criteria for granting unemployment benefit which have been promoted over time and which have substantially limited people's access to that benefit. We refer, for example, to the imposition of truly unacceptable guarantee deadlines or the reduction of periods for granting unemployment benefit. On the other hand, the numbers currently reaching unemployment and, above all, the world of people without access to unemployment are mainly due to the fact that these people are working in a precarious way, noting any possibility of access to unemployment benefits, or because the guarantee period is not reached, or because they are working through service contracts, or because they are working on what is designated as informal work. Therefore, in this context, the Greens consider that, on the one hand, it is absolutely necessary to continue to combat job insecurity, even in order to prevent precariousness from continuing to be established and transformed into the rule of labour relations, and on the other hand, it is absolutely imperative to amend the system of our social protection system, in particular with regard to enlargement and improving the rules and conditions for access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, but also to grant periods and the amounts of these important benefits. We therefore follow the initiatives that are currently under discussion and which, in any way or otherwise, seek to respond to the serious problem posed by thousands and thousands of families that they are literally deprived of access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u196	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Joaquina Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills under discussion refer to the area of social protection in unemployment, more specifically to proposals for amendment in the allocation of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit. It is appropriate that this very current issue should be debated and that it will certainly be re-appreciated at the state budget. It is a matter that always leads us to the path that we have travelled over the past five years, the path of promotion of employment and the protection of those who lose it, in the implementation of a political strategy in the social field, in the enhancement of workers and in the promotion of social justice. I recall here the emblematic measures of this policy, such as the end of the cut in unemployment allowance at the end of six months, the extraordinary support measure for the long-term unemployed, the protection of unemployment for self-employed workers, covering them in a fairer new contribution regime and guaranteeing them protection of the disease, unemployment and parenthood. We promote the dignity of work, strengthening the inspection capacity of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), now fulfilling the ratios of the International Labour Organization, with the allocation of executive power for suspension of dismissals, hiring more working judges. In 2019, the country had an unemployment rate of 6 %, half of which existed at the end of the previous government. The Portuguese economy, benefiting from income returns measures, created jobs and provided new social protection measures. The unexpected pandemic and the resulting health, economic and social crisis quickly responded to the Government in June with the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme supported in the Supplementary Budget, with a wide range of exceptional measures in the areas of economic, labour and social security, employment and vocational training, with support for businesses, families, workers, with the main objective of ensuring employment and jobs. "To make no one stay behind" was the motto, and that is the challenge in combating the crisis that we continue to face — a strong, health, economic and social crisis. The draft law submitted by the CFP, here under consideration, proposes new rules for the allocation of the two allowances, amends its duration and amount, among others, with a reduction in the guarantee period for access to social unemployment benefit for 90 working days, proposes increases in the amount of the allowance in simultaneous situations of unemployment in the family and also by the number of children, increasing the period of social benefits. The project of the Left Block also proposes a reduction to half of the guarantee periods for access to unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit and an increase in the amount of the social unemployment benefit, equivalent to the poverty threshold, among other social measures. As regards the NAP proposal, in order to increase the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules on vocational training, amending three articles of Decree-Law No 220 / 2006, it is, in our view, a redundant proposal to the extent that this diploma already provides that training must correspond to the profile of recipients and is defined in the light of the competences and expectations but also the adequacy to the needs of the labour market. By not calling into question the arguments put forward in the proposals under consideration regarding the particular difficulties faced by families who are weakened by the unemployment situation, we are subject to reservations in their reception, since they are presented without a prior financial impact assessment, in compliance with the principle of sustainability of the social security system. The proposed measures, such as the reduction of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefits, the change in special conditions for the allocation of social unemployment benefit, the change and increase in the daily amount of the same allowance, equivalent to the poverty threshold, are measures that will entail an increase in the current social protection system charges. We appreciate these proposals, we understand them, but we believe that they need more concreteization and more density and that they must be framed in the context of the debate on the State budget, which is approaching, and therefore, on the part of the Socialist Party, we appeal that their proponents have demanded their discharge to the committee, without a vote, so that they can be worked in the spirit of openness and dialogue with which we have guided our intervention. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u198	The next intervention is for Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u199	Mr President, a few days after we know the text of the State budget for 2021, we are discussing the unemployment allowance and its conditions of access and allocation. First of all, it is worth saying that the PSD Parliamentary Group looks at many of the concerns that have been raised here. By the way, the PSD, like the Mr. Members will know, in May last, in a responsible way, that it presented the Social Emergency Programme COVID-19, which covers a set of proposals and measures designed precisely to minimize and mitigate the socio-economic effects caused by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this document lists a set of concrete proposals for support for families, including the reduction of the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit and the reduction of the guarantee period for access to end-of-activity allowance, these measures which the PSD presented at the premises of Supplementary Budget, and we congratulate those who have been duly approved, for the benefit of families and people who have lost income. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was precisely by the hand of the PSD that these benefits came to people. We are therefore in agreement with the issues that are present here, but it seems to us to be more alert, Mr President. Members, that this discussion should have its stage of excellence in the context of the discussion of the State budget for 2021, which will of course take place very soon. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this discussion, based only on unemployment allowance and its allocation conditions, is insufficient, because it only addresses a part of the problem. The country's economic and financial situation is very fragile, companies feel helpless and the measures that the Government has taken to deal with the economic crisis are insufficient and, no, Mrs Joaquina Matos, did not arrive quickly, arrived late to the companies. The layoff, for example, came late — and bad — to businesses, too bureaucratic, compromising employment, the vitality of businesses and the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u201	We are, of course, living an exceptional moment, which requires, on the part of the State and all of us, structured measures capable of giving an effective response to people affected by the pandemic, but also, and equally important, Mrs and Mrs. Members, an answer capable of mitigating the future conjuncural effects on the economy and work. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our conviction that this discussion will never be complete if, together with strengthening social protection, measures are not promoted that guarantee the employability of workers, active employment and vocational training measures appropriate to the needs of companies, as proposed by the NAP, measures that avoid dismissal, closure of businesses and destruction of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that workers, in addition to valuing unemployment benefit, have great concern in this period of uncertainty about the maintenance of their jobs in order to be able to continue their life projects. The period from May to June this year involved the net destruction of 183 000 jobs and still remains to be recovered, Mrs and Mrs. Members, 124 000 jobs. Unemployment has been increasing, and the number of unemployed in August was 417 000, more than 13 000 than in July, a 3 percentage point advance over the previous month. The unemployment rate, according to a recent estimate of the National Institute of Statistics, stands at 8.1 %, but the social perception and insecurity of people and workers is higher than this rate translates. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we follow the concerns that have been raised in this debate, however, we believe that this debate must take place within the framework of the State budget and it cannot, nor should it, be confined to unemployment, but should, through a contextual view, be accompanied by a set of measures that guarantee stability in employment, allow for the recovery of jobs and, above all, prevent their destruction, which is the imminent threat to us and with which, if we do nothing, we will soon have to debate ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u202	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u203	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of taking care of the treatment, we must, above all, be concerned with preventing the disease, preventing unemployment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u204	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is implied in these initiatives of the CFP, the Left Block and the NAP is, of course, the discussion of the problem of unemployment, which is a problem which, at the moment, is particularly relevant for all the reasons already mentioned. However, the CDS wanted to add one more: it is that at the time of unemployment—and it has come down from the PSD/CDS government, it is never too much to remember—that we have always said that it was very important, at that time, to take the necessary steps to ensure that, when the economic cycle is reversed, we did not have a complete reversal of the unemployment situation last time we had an economic crisis. Unfortunately, not only have these measures been taken as during the economic, anemic growth we had during this period, when other countries competing with us grew much more than Portugal, when per capita income in these countries increased much more than in Portugal, we often warned that this would have consequences for a cycle reversal. I'm just going to give a concrete example. The resumption of the Portuguese economy, despite anemic, had another serious problem: it depended essentially on a single sector of activity, tourism. What happened to us, that is, this economic crisis has penalized the sector of the economy in which we had much of the job recovery. Therefore, the fact that this situation has not been planned in good time, the fact that no more diversified investment has been created, that no conditions have been created for Portuguese companies to have invested more than what they have invested, makes the invoice pay now for those who lose their jobs. And we should also think about something else: the bet so often in the public sector, not having a similar approach with the private sector, makes many people at this time rather than being in a different situation, lose their jobs, because obviously the state, in a more favourable period, has affected much of its resources to the public sector, not realizing that in a negative situation it would have to pay for this. Therefore, these projects go straight to three things in social support for unemployment: the question of the guarantee period; the question of the increase of values; and the question of the extension of the deadline. It is also worth saying: none of these proposals is new to what the CDS has already presented this year in this House. So it's very curious... [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] In principle it is not, it is different in scope. It may be different. Now, what happens is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u206	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u207	I will finish, Mr. President. What happens is that — probably not by coincidence — the parties that now present these proposals when the CDS presented similar proposals dropped them. We will therefore have the opportunity to discuss many of these matters in the State budget. We realize that they are now only presented to mark the ground, the serious debate will be held in the Budget and we will be able to see what each party presents and what coherence of its parliamentary groups. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u208	Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by commenting on this last statement: we voted on the proposals to reduce the time limit for the guarantee of unemployment benefit and if these proposals have not been approved it was because, at the last hour, the PS and PSD have made an agreement to limit the scope of this reduction. The PSD Member mentioned the prevention of unemployment, and we agree. That is why we propose that redundancies be prohibited in profit companies and redundancies be prohibited in companies receiving public support for the maintenance of employment. We will see what the PSD will do about this and now also about the value of unemployment compensation that has made dismissal easier and cheaper. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, we know what the impact of these measures - indeed, we have been discussing them with the Socialist Party and with the Government. What is important is to know how we can respond to people who are unemployed and whether or not we think it is deeply worrying that half of the unemployed do not have access to unemployment benefits. It's not a paradox.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u210	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u211	... what benefits for the fight against poverty are worth 150 € below the poverty threshold, keeping people in poverty, even those who access benefits? Is it not an obstacle to the principle of contribution I discount for unemployment benefit for the value of my salary and then receive as if my unemployment benefit was a benefit to combat poverty rather than a contribution? That's what we need to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u212	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u213	I shall end with this: on sustainability, Mrs Deputies, you will always have the Left Block so that there will be no loss on the payment of the TSU (unique social rate) and to diversify the sources of funding for social security. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u214	We are now closing this point. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying that, of the most diverse interventions, we note that there is no objection to the proposals that the CFP has brought to the debate today, which also means that, with no objection, there are all conditions for this document to be brought down to the specialty and to come into force with the Budget, as is proposed, Mrs Sandra Pereira, of the PSD, in the draft law itself. Therefore, its entry into force solves the question which the honourable Member here has raised about the debate within the State budget. We can make this debate and vote on this speciality and this initiative, these proposals, come into force with the State budget. I would also like to make a few comments. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking now of over 409,000 unemployed workers, we are talking about the lives of these workers and their families, of their children too — in fact, a few weeks ago we were talking here about the various concerns about the living conditions of children and child poverty — and we are talking about a little more than 224 thousand workers who do not have access to any kind of unemployment protection benefit. However, it is too obvious that this is a situation that urgently needs to be corrected and that it is a resolution that cannot be postponed. So the appeal we have left is also that the parliamentary groups in this House contribute urgently to solving the problem of these hundreds of thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u216	Don't solve it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u217	... that they have no social protection and that they may have better social protection conditions with the proposals that the PCP brought here today the discussion. So let us not postpone the resolution of the problem. We have a chance to solve it right now. Let us take this decision into our hands so that, in fact, we can already guarantee, immediately, more social protection, better social protection conditions for workers in our country. This is the compromise that the CFP brings here. Let us see how the votes will take place tomorrow. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-01.u218	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the last item on our agenda. Tomorrow, the Plenary will meet at 10 a.m. on the following agenda: point 1 - Re-evaluation of Decree No 57 / XIV- Nono amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October which approves the Law of Nationality ; point 2 - Re-evaluation of Decree No 59 / XIV— First amendment to Law No 17 / 2014 of 10 April establishing the bases of the National Maritime Policy and Management ; point 3 - Joint discussion of Resolution Projects No 641 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Measures to regulate the functioning of primary health care, 248 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Guarantee a National Quality Health Service, 630 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Measures to recover activity in primary health care and 656 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recovery and strengthening of primary health care activity; point 4 - Joint discussion of Law Projects Nos 53 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Purpose to ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by those with pets and 496 / XIV / 1. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Change the Civil Code, ensuring non-discrimination in access to the lease by those holding pets, point 5 - Motion for a resolution No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Comprehensive and Strengthened Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, signed on 24 November 2017 in Brussels ( no time for debate ) ; point 6 - Registral votes at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 11 minutes.]]
