ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of the authority, the plenary session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Before we begin our work, whose first point is for political declarations, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will transmit several information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: Draft Constitutional Review No 3 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) ; Proposals for Law No 60 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 61 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; Draft Law Nos 558 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 559 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 560 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 561 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 562 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 563 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. a and 10. a Commissions, 564 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 565 / XIV / 2. a ( CH) ; Resolution Projects Nos 697 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 698 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 699 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 700 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 701 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 702 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 703 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 704 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 705 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 706 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), which falls to 13. the Commission, 707 / XIV / 2. a ( CH ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 708 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 709 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ), 710 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 711 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 712 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 713 / XIV / 2. a (PEV). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We are going to get on the agenda, the first of which is political declarations. The first political declaration lies with the BE Parliamentary Group, for which Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The analysis and merit of a proposal for a State budget is necessarily measured by the text and by the context. Normally, one year's budget is compared with those of previous years, the annual progress of the funds is evaluated and choices are measured according to the previous route. But, no, we're not in a normal year, forget the usual rules. The pandemic shuffled all accounts, removed normality to life, created a public health crisis and unlocked the doors to an abrupt recession. That is what we have to answer: the greatest and fastest economic contraction we have ever experienced and the social and economic crisis that is raging. The Left Block is aware of the requirement we have in front of it. We said that at the right time, either publicly or to the government, so we started negotiations with the government for months to build a State budget that does not fail essentially: the response to people at this critical moment. Our conversations began with the simplest: meeting what was already agreed for 2020, and that the pandemic became even more urgent, and implementing what was decided in the Supplementary Budget. Time has passed and things are still about to be done. The hiring of professionals for the National Health Service (NSS ), which we agreed in the last Budget, was an emergency before the pandemic, but it was to be done. The SNS lost doctors during the epidemic and only seven months after the outbreak in Portugal was that the government decided to implement 2995 professionals. Community mental health teams, as agreed in the 2019 Budget, are even more fundamental in pandemic time. They were repeatedly announced, but never hired. Extraordinary social support for informal workers exists only on paper, has not protected anyone! The change in the deadlines for access to unemployment benefit to support people who have lost their jobs with the pandemic has not yet been implemented. Support for informal caregivers, who had an appropriation of EUR 38 million, only reached 32 people, which means that in practice there is no generality of caregivers. The reduction in VAT (tax on value added) of electricity, which the Government made dependent on a response from the European Commission and had OK last June, is now promised for December and is only due in January. « Complying the wake», so simple to say, but so difficult to see do! This is a moment of responsibility and not of illusory promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u6	And it is also not the time for symbolic measures, which were important at other times to initiate debates or open paths to recognize new rights. We're not in that time! The crisis forces concrete measures, which are now responding to people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u8	For this reason, when we presented the trick to change the IRS retention tables (tax on income of natural persons), we said that this was not the way that would give stability to people's lives. We answered the same about the New Bank, rejecting Lone Star's continuing to fill the pockets at the expense of the bank's mismanagement. This cannot be a budget that leaves everything in it. That is our obligation. We have heard the government talk about last-minute demands from the Block. What are they, ladies and gentlemen? Members of the Socialist Party? All of our proposals have been on the table since the beginning of summer—they are not secret and are published; we have presented them to the government and the country and if we insist on them, it is because the reality of people's lives is giving us reason. There is no day that goes by without the lack of professionals in the National Health Service being news. If our concern had already come back, the pandemic only made it more urgent. The setting of professionals is not a simple issue of contract competitions; it depends on ensuring that we can attract them and keep them in the SNS, which is particularly flagrant in the case of doctors. It's not a minor matter. The wave of redundancies that we are witnessing, with the increase in the unemployment rate, happens because labour laws protect workers. We know that, the country knows that, and the Prime Minister knows that. In fact, many days ago he said that the crisis proved the deprotection of workers, a real scourge. But it remains for regrets, rejecting amendments to the Labour Code that protect the employment or use of State pressure. Intransigence is such that the government did not even accept to end the experimental period, despite the crisis having shown how this experimental period brutally protected workers. It's not a minor matter. The social support which the Left Block has led to negotiations with the Government is quite different from the result of the State budget proposal. We have proposed permanent support and what has arrived is extraordinary support, which is compounded by the condition of resources and short-term, which leaves, for example, families of self-employed persons with average wages and in which a member of the couple has lost income. Should they stay behind? Of course not! It's not a matter of detail. Today we can only conclude that the government's intransigence resulted in an unsatisfactory proposal after the State budget proposal was evaluated. The differences we have with the Government's proposal are not in detail in the fundamental issues that have defined this State budget. If there is an open door to solve them, there is, but not to fail people at this critical moment. The mandate of the Left Block is for answers that ensure that next year no one will be left behind. That's what we won't miss! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u9	Mr President, you have three requests for clarification: PS, PSD and PCP... I apologize, but you have two further requests for clarification. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to sign up during the intervention and not after that. We have five requests for clarification and I ask the honourable Member how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u10	Mr. President, two, two, one.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u11	All right, Mr. Deputies. Let us, then, begin with the first two, giving the floor to Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the budget presented by the Government in the Assembly is a budget to combat the pandemic and to combat an economic and social crisis. It is a budget that brings progress, advances those that were also negotiated with the Left Block, because we remember well what the Left Block said in July when we spoke about the bases of understanding for this Budget. The Left Block at that time demanded strengthening essential services, protecting employment, protecting people most affected by the crisis and protecting the sectors of activity most affected by this crisis. Well, that's what this budget brings! It's making progress on all these fronts. So, the question that arises here, which all Portuguese put, is to know why the left-wing Block votes against the State budget, which reinforces the investment in the National Health Service, which provides for the hiring of 4200 professionals, which provides for the hiring of 260 professionals for INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency), which provides for the creation of the extraordinary risk allowance for health professionals who are in the front line for the fight against COVID-19. Does BE consider voting against the hiring of 3000 operational assistants for public school, Member of the Commission? Would you be able to vote against the increase in the minimum wage? Can you vote against the extraordinary increase in pensions? Will you be able to vote against the new social benefit, which is estimated at more than EUR 400 million and will benefit about 170 000 people? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Would you be able to vote against the increase in the minimum unemployment allowance for whom you have worked on a full-time basis? Would you be able to vote against the fall in IRS retention rates? Would you vote against the reduction in electricity VAT to 2021? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It may vote against extending the free of charge of day care centres to 1. o is 2. The stairs? Would you be able to vote against the strengthening of the human resources and powers of the Working Conditions Authority, which was an understanding to which we came between the Government, the PS and the Left Block? You can vote against the suspension...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u13	Mr. Deputies, it's been too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u14	I will finish, Mr. President. Would you be able to vote against the suspension of the expiry of collective employment contracts? Would you be able to vote against the increase in public investment by 20 %? Will you be able to vote against a measure which has so much demanded and which is: will the State not lend even one more euro to the Resolution Fund? [[P.S.'s applause.]] This matter is guaranteed in the State budget...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u15	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u16	Does the Left Block weigh voting against this budget? We have no conditions or reasons to create a political crisis...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u17	Mr President, the time has already gone by much longer than he had.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u18	...on a pandemic crisis and on an economic and social crisis. To vote against this budget is to vote against the country, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u19	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, sincerely, we have already seen angry lovers and ending Catholic marriages with less violence than you are providing here. [[PSD applause.]] Question: did you wake up now? Did you guys wake up now or were you the last ones to know? Extraordinary captivating? You approved things that you knew would never happen. They approved the cross!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u22	Did you guys never realize they were being deceived? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u24	Promises of investment, of staff reinforcement, of beautiful words, such as those which Mr. João Paulo Correia used here, did you sign on a cross and never realized they were being deceived? Oh, my God! Or before, while there were some euros to distribute it didn't hurt, why did the winds blow off? [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u25	But it's enough to get the first winds of crisis to feel the difficulties and somebody jump off the boat and not want to take responsibility. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by BE José Manuel Pureza.]] What an irresponsibility, sir! What irresponsibility that, in the face of the greatest economic crisis that the country has experienced in our democracy, a government that has been supported by VV for the last five years. For example, you do not have the ability to present a budget that responds to the country's difficulties and to people's difficulties and that the first thing you feel is the ruin of the support that seemed so solid, showing once again that when there is money, you understand that when there are problems, you disagree.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u26	There'll be more money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u27	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u28	But there, Mr President, I conclude by asking: what is new? In the last 40 years, everyone knows that when there were problems, who had to solve them, it was us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u29	I have the floor to answer Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Duarte Pacheco and Mr João Paulo Correia for their questions. I begin by replying to Mr Duarte Pacheco, telling him, in a very simple way, that I was in doubt whether the almost in love form, as the PSD is defending this Socialist Party Budget, shows no attempt to de facto union to which we are still to watch. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] [[Protests from PSD, CDS-PP and CH Members.]] For our part, don't count on us for this film. But, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I think it is worth discussing the essentials of what is on the table and we take off this debate of inflamed rhetoric, blackmails to the country. As we realize, being up to the moment is to ensure that we don't get involved in rhetoric or blackmail. So I'm going to answer you for the contents of what's on the table. The conscience of each and each will dictate what answer we want to give to the question, on the day on which the State budget is voted: do we believe that it will protect, during the next whole year, people from the brutality of the crisis that is going on? In our view, this State budget does not. It does not, because it fails at fundamental times. As I said, the proposal for social support protects many people, thousands of them, and the government cannot say that we have not warned about this danger because we have repeatedly done so. However, he chose to deliver the proposal as he wanted. It cannot be ignored that the various contracts for the National Health Service have always been announced and rarely implemented. The honourable Member has referred to the contract and I will give him the news, because realisation is still almost nothing. In May, there were 2300 professionals for the SNS ; in June they were 2700 ; in August they were 4300 ; in September they were 950 ; and, at the end, everything squeezed, in October they were, after all, only 2995. It's from this reality that we're talking about,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u32	...in a fundamental service in a pandemic period in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u34	It could be different. We had already warned about the need to hire before the pandemic. What you don't realize is that, after a pandemic, there is no more urgency in this contract. The need to ensure that people do not get unprotected in the economy was not only the Left Block that recognized it. Mr. Prime Minister, and even the Socialist Party, acknowledged that, in the labour law, there is a sea of deprotection of workers. However, what does the Socialist Party do? Not even in the experimental period, which proved to be a gigantic achievement to people,... [[PS Deputy Protests Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes.]] ...that took thousands to unemployment barely started the pandemic, not even that the PS accepts to move! When we speak in protection against dismissals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u35	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to synthesize quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u36	Mr. President, I shall finish with a sentence. When we speak in protection against dismissals, the PS does not accept to move in almost anything. And about the New Bank, just look at the State Budget tables to see that it continues to go to the deficit and there is a question to which Mr. Minister of State and Finance cannot answer: who is going to pay for the hole that is being created there?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u38	And there's no answer about it. The reality is shown. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u39	Mr President, a second group of requests for clarification follows. You have the floor, therefore, to make requests for clarification, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this political statement on a subject which is, of course, relevant and which we will have an opportunity to deepen in the coming weeks. from the PCP, we have already clarified our position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u41	Have you clarified? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u42	They didn't clarify, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u43	We will make our consideration of the position and direction of vote in the State budget based on the overall response to national problems and not on blackmail and pressure, some of which we have heard today. We are not sensitive to these arguments. The arguments of blackmail and pressure to us do not move us. We have already made a first assessment of the state budget bill and we believe that it does not respond to the structural problems of the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u44	Ah, ready!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u45	... does not respond to the new situations that the epidemic has put in place and does not free itself from conditions and taxes, particularly from the European Union, which function as a garrison to the answer that the country needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u46	So how are you going to vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u47	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would say that these criteria that we advance are not different from those we have advanced in the assessment of successive State budgets, nor are they even different from those we used in the vote on the last State budget, which was the Supplementary Budget, in which the CFP voted against. In fact, the weight we did at that time corresponds, in many circumstances, to the issues which Mr Pedro Filipe Soares referred to in his speech. The lack of response to the economic and social problems of workers, the lack of response to the unemployment situation, the lack of response to those who lost their income and, at the same time, a set of capital benefit measures were some of the elements that we underlined when we voted against the Supplementary Budget, because between the last Budget, by 2020, and the pandemic, the situation in which we are today, we did not pass from one Budget to another, there was a Supplementary Budget, and at that time the CFP pointed out — with this appreciation which we have also made clear today — that, having no such answer to the problems that arose, we had no problem in positioning ourselves in accordance with this thought, and we voted against it. Some of the problems we are facing today, particularly in the response that was lacking in strengthening public services and in economic and social terms, result from the inability of these decisions in the Supplementary Budget. The question we are asked is what is the overall response to national problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u48	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u49	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is what is the overall response to national problems, which will not be resolved by themselves and for which action will have to be taken, so that they can be effectively overcome. They do not resolve with programmatic rules, it is necessary to give in the State budget an effective solution to each of the points in which they are entered. The answer that is really to give is from the Socialist Party and the Government, on which is the perspective they really have in order to give this global response that the budget proposal does not seem to contain. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u50	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u51	Mr President, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, listening to your political statement, would say more this gossip, in which no one already knows who is blackmailing who, I was wondering why Mr Soares said - and I understand why we are in the pandemic - « forget the usual rules». With regard to the pandemic, I can see that you forget, but I believe that you have not forgotten just the usual rules, you have forgotten many other things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u52	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u53	It is because I heard him say, there from the rostrum, with a bright and surprised air, that the PS had not fulfilled some things that he had agreed with the Left Block, had not fulfilled some things that were in the State Budget and the Supplementary Budget. Mr President, you are really telling me that now, five years later, you are already going to the sixth budget you are negotiating! — did you suddenly realize that the PS sometimes fails to meet what is in the Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u54	You got it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u55	Did you get that now? Oh, my God! Are you really telling us this? Did you get that now, that is, that the PS sometimes doesn't? Oh, my God! The PS usually doesn't do it! From captivating to programmatic standards, everything has happened. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is unbelievable that the honourable Member, more than five years later, will say this in a surprising way. Secondly, with regard to the New Bank, I have said — and I agree with you — that what is there is not going to be lent to the Resolution Fund, but it is clear that in any way or otherwise the State will guarantee what is in the Resolution Fund. There will be a lock for the New Bank, this goes to the deficit and, in fact, in practice, what is there is a financial engineering to do exactly what is usual. So I have only one question left, Mr President. The honourable Member voted a Budget — I accept that he disagreed, but voted, and voted in favour — with a transfer to the New Bank in 2018, voted a Budget with a transfer to the New Bank in 2019 and voted a Budget with a transfer to the New Bank in 2020. Did you forget? I just wanted to see what's different this year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u56	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u57	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in essence, seems to have recognized this year what we have said for many years about the New Bank and the Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u58	There's got to be a can!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u59	We remember when the CDS leader was on the beach and signed from cross the BES resolution, the creation of this problem for the State. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And we know which side the CDS was on when the Left Block reported that the Resolution Fund would be a waste of public money to land on the New Bank — and the CDS said no. At the time, CDS and PSD said no. Even the PS said it could be; now it has changed its mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u60	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u61	But the CDS and PSD swore no. Now, we realize how reality has laid this oath on the ground and that cost is exploding in the hands of all of us. What we know today, and we didn't know in the past, is that Lone Star's management would be so harmful to public money. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It is essential that this suspicion, which has now led to the establishment of a new committee of inquiry, be clarified. That is exactly why we have proposed the committee of inquiry — it will make its way — we demand clarification of all capital injections and we want consequences for the protection of public money. That is exactly why we made the proposal we made and we are not going into the financial engineering tricks the Socialist Party presented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u62	Don't go now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u63	It is strange that on fundamental issues such as the social state, from public school to the National Health Service, we have seen nothing on the side of the CDS, but we know why. It's just that CDS's claim was to privatize SNS. We know how we would be, in the pandemic period, if we were dependent on an enlarged, privatized SNS, with the privates closing the doors and people without knowing where to go. We know that this was the CDS claim and, therefore, it is so out of this game in solutions for the country that — we understand! — it does not touch what is essential to respond to the pandemic. Mr. João Oliveira, I believe that in the intervention he has shown that there is a concern, which we share, about the response that this State budget should give in a special period. It is not a budget equal to the others and the period you are responding to is not the same as the others. Therefore, or we have the courage to respond right now, and not to let the economic and social crisis spread, or the consequence is that we are promising people that we are protecting them, knowing that we will leave them unprotected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u65	And that is our conscience, with this proposal for a State Budget, presented by the Government. from the Left Block, our position is clear; it is public, it is not intransigence, it is even open so that we can review the points of divergence, so there is the Government's will to go to the fundamental in the response to people's lives. I ask you, Mr President, if you think this budget is an answer to which we will have access in the next few days, it does not, in fact, make false promises to people, because that will be the question that each and every one of us will have to answer on the day on which we vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u66	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the NAP, we have defended the renegotiation of the New Bank's agreements because it seems to us to be what can effectively prevent this bleeding of taxpayers' money for what is a bottomless well. So first of all, and given the position taken by the Left Block at this negotiating stage with the Government, we would like to know where the issue of renegotiating contracts lies. Secondly, we would like to know whether the Left Block is available for discussion in the field of expertise to contribute to the review of the steps of the IRS and also to ensure the path that has to be made in Portugal with regard to the average wage. Thirdly, Mr President, I would like to ask you the following: in view of the strengthening or funding provided for education in this State budget, we know that much of it comes from European funds, in particular for the withdrawal of asbestos from schools, for the digitisation plan, we would like to know how the Left Block sees, in this budget, the valuation of education professionals and the hiring of 3000 non-doctoral professionals operational assistants. Finally, I would like to ask you what red lines the Left Block has put in environmental matters in these negotiations with the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u68	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u69	Mr President, Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I thank you for your various questions. I will not be able to answer everyone, but there is one that seems fundamental to me so that we do not confuse discussions. The Government itself acknowledged that the entire programme dependent on Community funds is differentiated from this State budget. They are, by their very large majority, fully paid, with a 100 % share, so we must not mix them with the choices that are being made in this State budget. Obviously, from an economic strategy point of view, they are not separated, because the results of the investments of the Community funds are also seen in the recovery of the economy, but are not being discussed in the discussion of the proposed State budget law and, even in the area of public investment, do not depend on the State budget, given that they are fully paid by the Community funds. From that point of view, we must therefore separate the two situations. I would like to tell you, on this management of the Community funds, that we have already had the opportunity to respond to the Government, considering that the proposal put forward by the European Commission has the problem of preventing investment in structural measures and only pointing to extraordinary measures, thus missing a fundamental pillar for what could be used. I will also answer the question about income policy, which is not only done through tax policy. We told the Government that, in the expectations created for the economy and for workers, the value of income is fundamental. If the Government had said months ago in this House that the proposal it had to present to the country was to raise the minimum wage to the 750 € until the end of the legislature, we told the Government that this proposal must be maintained, learning that it was through wages, incomes, investment in our internal market that we were able in the past to recover from an economic and social crisis. The Government's response is unsatisfactory in this context, because it says it will increase - but already putting the €750 in question. from the Left Block, we say that income policy cannot be dissociated from a deep response to the crisis. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u70	We will move on to the next political declaration in this case of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last few months have shown already known realities of the network of social equipment, including difficulties experienced by institutions and inadequacies in responses to users and families. The last few months have well demonstrated that the current network of equipment, based on responses transferred to the solidarity network, responsible for almost all existing equipment, is not responding to the needs, meaning, yes, a deresponsibility of the state in the social area and creating situations of difficulties and inequalities in access to equipment. The deresponsibility of the State in ensuring social responses, particularly in social equipment, is the result of the political option of successive governments which have transferred to institutions of social solidarity a primary responsibility of the State. This option overturned the complementary role assigned to the institutions and resulted in the gradual abandonment of the constitutional responsibilities assigned to the State in the creation of a public network of national social equipment and appropriate to the specific needs of each region in the territory. This policy option has, of course, consequences for families and users who, for example, in the case of households are often pushed into homes without operating authorisations — the so-called 'illegal homes' — because they do not have jobs in the current network or because they cannot bear the costs. It also has consequences for family participation and many debate daily with difficulties to ensure the payment of it. This policy option has consequences for the institutions and their workers, because it is a model based on the full accountability of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), through public funding, which has an impact on the emphasis on inequalities between institutions, on the financial level, on human and technical resources, and also reflects the differences in the quality of services provided, among other dimensions. These workers, in the overwhelming majority of situations, earn the minimum wage, have long working hours, work shifts, at night hours and do not have due compensation and appreciation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reflection and action to respond to the needs of families must consider two dimensions: what network do we have and what network do we need? And it is exactly with these two dimensions always present that the CFP has presented several proposals. We remember from now on an initiative on ageing with rights — which resulted in a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic in 2018, that, in fact, it is urgent to realize — by proposing the creation of a public network of equipment and services for support to the third age (home support, day centres, residences for the elderly), a need which the current context confirms and makes it more urgent. There is a need for a public network of homes and other equipment and services to support the elderly whose valences respond to the various needs of this heterogeneous social group, and the situations of greater or lesser dependence and an articulation of the response of the homes with other equally important responses, such as home support, day centres, among others. It is also important that there are specific responses that allow, in addition to the provision of care, activities directed to the characteristics and the identified needs of each user. We recall how the CFP has also insisted on a public network of day care centres, presenting proposals in this direction and helping to make decisive steps towards the free frequency of day care centres, but also for a universal response, which should provide the care and socialization component, considering the development phases of each child, age and its own pace. The last few months have confirmed the correctness of this intervention. They had been immediately implemented free of charge and the support regime for families, as proposed by the PCP, and many families would not have been confronted with problems because of the monthlyities or the institutions would have seen themselves with the difficulties they faced. To ensure these more differentiated and more targeted responses, but also to respond to the urgent needs that the current context demonstrates, it is imperative to strengthen workers in this sector. We remember that the CFP proposed the hiring of workers, with rights, for these institutions — a shortage that has been dragged for years and which is confirmed every day — and it is necessary to value them in concrete, not only with palms, praise and beautiful words, and to reject any precarious situation. It is necessary to value the wages of these workers, their careers, comply with collective labour conventions and hygiene, health and safety measures at work, in order to ensure their protection, even more necessary in the current context, with the exposure to which they are subject, as well as to ensure the necessary training to which they are entitled. I repeat: the number of workers needs to be increased. Those who were, in fact, considered as essential service workers must have a remuneration supplement due to the increased risk to which they are currently exposed. The reality shows that an answer based on a social and private sector network does not serve the existing needs. It is necessary to break with a model based on a logic of privatization of social responses, the expansion of business to the private sector and the proliferation of unlicensed entities. It is essential to define a relationship between the State and the institutions based on cooperation that responds to existing problems and gaps and ensures its complementary role. It is essential to ensure the existence of a public network of social equipment — home, daycare and other — of public management, in the responsibility of social security, which responds to existing deficiencies, which combats inequalities in access, which promotes the rights of users, with responses and valences of quality and proximity, which considers the needs of users and families, who have valued workers. And this is nothing more than the assumption by the State of its responsibilities in guaranteeing social rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u72	You have five requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u73	Mr President, I will respond first to two requests for clarification, then I will respond to two others and finally to another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u74	So choose to respond to 2 + 2 + 1. It's getting into the fashion of this new tactical system. All right. [[Laughing.]] You have the floor, for the first request for clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the CFP on the subject of the political declaration and say that the Left Block actually follows the warnings that the CFP has brought here today, in particular on the need to strengthen social equipment, especially those that respond to childhood, old age, dependent or disabled people. We therefore believe that it is necessary to integrate the child care network into the education system, for example, by making them free. We need a public network of equipment for the elderly, we need much more home support and response for people with disabilities who guarantee them autonomy. We also need, above all, because without this there is no obvious answer to this problem, to value the professionals of the social sector, who are poorly paid, little recognized, without careers worthy of that name and often precarious and precarious. In your speech, Mrs Deputies, you said that we have achieved this, as a country, to value these professionals who, over the past few months, have both proved absolutely essential for our country and fundamental to combat the pandemic crisis. So I also ask you if you do not think that, together with strengthening funding and the need to create a public response in this area, throughout the territory, it is not the time to rethink the intervention model itself, particularly in the case of households and elderly people. from our point of view, we should look carefully at the experiences of independent life, of deinstitutionalization, of seeking to ensure that the answers we bet are more respectful of the autonomy of people, based on the permanence at home and the maintenance of the daily life, which we know is very relevant, contrary to what is happening today, in the separation and breakdown of the routines of living of these people, in the institutional envelopment, which so many negative results have given. The last question also has to do with this. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u76	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. Along with the investment in a public response, does not the CFP consider that this is also the time to rethink the model in which we want to bet, as a country, on these needs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u78	Good afternoon to all the Members and to all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The next request for clarification lies with Mr André Ventura, from the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u79	Mr President, Mrs Diana Ferreira, we are very pleased to hear your concern that the social budget will be guaranteed for next year. The CFP may turn around the Assembly you want, but the answer you have to give is about how you will vote in the State budget for 2021. We already know several things. We know that for households, reinforcement is either "zero" or "zero" trend. The honourable Member spoke about the reinforcements of workers, collective conventions and wage increases and we know that the answer is 'zero' or 'zero' and we found out yesterday that pensions will not, in most cases, have updates this year. We know that some pensions will only be updated in August of next year, as the Minister for Social Security said. So, Mrs. Member, come here to say that the homes are needed, that the national health system needs to be strengthened, that the daycare facilities are needed, that the roads are needed, the hospitals... everything is needed! But when the time comes for the State Budget, what we want to see is whether this budget, which does not respond to anything that the honourable Member has said, will or will not be viable by the Portuguese Communist Party, as it has done in recent years, except for the latter. So that's what we want to know! My friends, until the vote on the State budget, the CFP can say what to understand because no one in this country will take seriously any social concern that does not have the answer to this question: how will the CFP vote in the least social budget of the Socialist Party? That's what we want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u80	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u81	Eyes in the eyes, that's what we want to have an answer and that's what the country out there wants to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u82	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u83	After all, is the Portuguese Communist Party going to give the government of Antonio Costa or not? [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u84	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to interrupt Mr André Ventura because he had already begun to ask his question, but I would like to ask you to be very pleased to follow the rule that we adopted, according to which anyone who does not speak of the first row should use a mask or then come to the pulpit to speak. I would like to follow this rule on a matter of respect for the health of all. You have the floor to answer Mr Diana Ferreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u85	Mr President, I thank Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr André Ventura for the questions they have raised here. Mrs. Isabel Pires, I would begin by telling you that indeed the homes are not the only answer that exists in the context of older people, pensioners or the elderly. In fact, we have been careful to mention the need to articulate the response of the homes—which can be a possible response and should be considered, in a set of situations—with other social responses directed to the elderly, in particular the guarantee of home support, from the moment, of course, in which the elderly people intend to stay in their homes and then have a set of support of this same nature. Therefore, we also defend the need for linkage with home support, home care and even with answers at day-care level, in situations where the autonomy of the elderly allows this reality, and also in situations where the family joint allows another type of follow-up. In the light of the elderly's willingness to have another response that does not go through a residential home, it is also the responsibility of the State to guarantee means and to ensure, from the point of view of the answers, all the measures necessary for this to be achieved. That is why it is not a solution which is, at all, set aside. Homes are one of the answers that exist from the point of view of social support, but there are others that, of course, have to be considered. We said that the elderly are a heterogeneous social group and that their specificities and needs must be taken into account in their context, and also in the appropriate responses to these same characteristics and needs, and we cannot fail to mention here, as the honourable Member has also done, the tremendous need to value the workers working in this sector, either in IPSS or in other social responses that also exist. Indeed, the overwhelming majority have very low wages and long working days. Mr. André Ventura, the workers of the homes want to know if they will have valuable careers. Home workers want to know if they're going to have an increase in wages, they want to know if they're going to have better conditions at their workplaces. The families of this country want to know whether they will have answers, from a vague point of view, either to homes or to day care, or to other social responses. Users want to know, when these social responses arrive, whether their needs and characteristics are met and whether this social response is appropriate to what they need. On this point, you said zero, which also shows your deep disinterest on this very subject. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u86	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. You have the floor, for the first of these requests, Mr João Pinho de Almeida, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, of course there is a part of the intervention that has made us very far away: which has to do with the option that the CFP makes, from our point of view, not to defend a user-oriented social policy, for those who need, in each case, and to defend a social policy oriented towards the ownership of those who provide the service. For the CFP, the priority is for institutions to be public. For us, the priority is that the elderly, the children and all those in need of support have the support they need. It is therefore essential that we distinguish one issue here: we cannot go to the social institutions on Monday, Wednesday and Friday to say that we have a lot of support for their workers and then come to Parliament to say that these social institutions do not provide a good enough service, that they do not treat their workers well enough and that they should be replaced by institutions of the State. I tell you, Mrs. Member: what we need to do is look at the elderly, look at the children and realize, in a context like this, that is an exceptional context, how best we can care for them. So what I ask you is: even considering the workers, of course, when you voted for the State budget which did not increase the cooperation agreements in line with the increase in the national minimum wage, how did you think that the institutions would be able to reflect on the payment to the workers what was not reflected in what they received from the State? It's crucial to know that! When you consider once again supporting the Socialist Party's Government, I would also like to ask you how do you think that the brigades that are now set up to deal with the most urgent situations in the homes, six months later and with fewer people than was announced, will be able to solve the problem? With regard to structural matters, you also often say that these are issues that come from this and other governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u88	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u89	Mr President, with this last question, why has the Government that you have been supporting for five years not yet solved a very urgent problem as is the link between social security and health in the homes, so that the elderly can actually have the care they deserve? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u90	You have the floor, for the next request for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Diana Ferreira, today, the CFP has brought us a debate on social equipment. If the issue is no longer new, given that we have had this debate over the past few weeks, the position of the CFP is not new either. And it is not new in this matter nor in any other matter. The position of the CFP has always remained the same in all debates. We are talking about social equipment today, but we could talk about health, education, transport or minimum wage, that the position of the CFP would always be the same: « it is little». Together, we have made the biggest reduction in the price of public transport. What did the PCP say? « It is little». Together, we made the biggest increase in the minimum wage. What did the PCP say? « It is little». [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Together, we've achieved the freeness of the daycare centers, that you've talked about, to the 1st. the IRS step, being free for the second step, in this State budget. What did the PCP say? « It is little». Madam Member, what you said today is therefore not new. I will not have the courage to challenge the position of the CFP on being « little ». I do not even think that this position is wrong or even a defect. Madam Member, the CFP says 'is little' is no longer a defect, it is a spell, although it recognises that 'feitio' has only one objective, which is to fight for the improvement of the living conditions of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u92	Is that where you're from? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u93	Unfortunately, the rigour of the country's accounts has not allowed us to follow this "feitio" of the CFP in all matters. Madam Member, what I would like to ask is whether all the progress we have made together this year, namely PARES 3.0 ( Social Equipment Network Enlargement Programme ), are not positive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u94	Mr. Deputies, please conclude if you do the favor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u95	Does not the CFP prefer these advances, even if it considers them 'little', to the course that the right is willing to make? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u96	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also grateful for the questions that have been raised. Mr. Member of the CDS, João Almeida, from now on I would like to tell you that no one has spoken of replacement for the IPSS. We are talking about the creation of a public network of social equipment, homes, day care centers and, now, other answers, because the responses in terms of social equipment are not exhausted in these two valences. Mr President, you have also never heard from the CFP any disrespectful word about these institutions, because we also have memory and we know that many of them have been formed in a complete absence of public responses to the pressing needs of the populations to which they needed to respond. For this reason, we even value many organizations that were made voluntarily and that later became institutions of this nature, leading to the creation of a set of social responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u98	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u99	We therefore value many of these workers who came from these same institutions. We appreciate all of this, Mr President. What we do not accept next is that the State should rule out its responsibilities, because the responses, from a social rights point of view, are a primary responsibility of the State. [[PCP applause.]] Private institutions of social solidarity have a complementary role and cannot be replaced by the State. And what's happening right now is that these institutions are replacing the state in a set of responses...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u100	The state must transfer the means!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u101	...that must be the State guaranteeing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u102	Because of your budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u103	And it is necessary, Mr President, to reverse that path. In order to reverse this path, the existing network needs to be extended, and that, Mr President, does not mean creating more vacancies next to the homes, as the Government has done that the CDS was part of, without even taking into account the space of the homes, only throwing money over the IPSS. No, that's not the solution. The solution is to create a public network that responds to the gaps that exist at the moment, because the waiting lists for the homes remain, the waiting lists for the day care centres also stay and the problems of these workers also remain. The response goes through a public network of homes, day care centers and other equipment and by a state that effectively assumes its responsibilities, responsibilities that are, in fact, constitutionally consecrated. Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS, I would just like to point out here two or three observations you have made. Indeed, there is much that is 'little', Mr President. We have not stopped signaling progress that has been important in recent years, but indeed it is very little, Mr President. It is not possible to live with 565 € liquid per month, the minimum wage we have today in our country. And that is what 25% of the workers in our country take home every month—to pay the bills, to guarantee food, to pay the household income—, many of which work in this sector, Mr Deputies. And it is also to respond to workers in this sector and to ensure better quality in the response of this sector that wage valuation is absolutely unpredictable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u104	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u105	Mr. President, I will finish. The PCP pointed this out, here last week, when it brought to the discussion the increase of the national minimum wage, having set the goal to reach the 850 € / month, proposed that none of the parties to the right of the PS, nor the PS, were available to accompany.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u107	Mr. President, even to finish. From the point of view of the fate of budgetary money, it is a matter of political choice, Mr Deputies, and the PS has chosen to benefit from capital and not to guarantee more rights to workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u108	We have entered the last group of requests for clarification to Mrs Diana Ferreira and the first is Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you bring. In fact, the reality of social equipment in our country deserves more public policies, more efficient public policies, the same with the reality of the workers of these institutions. Obviously, it is not enough to say that, it is not enough to mention the role that the social economy has, to support it, to value it, to recognise it in fact and to create conditions for creating appropriate synergies for the necessary social responses. Madam Member, I cannot but take this moment to ask you two very specific questions. The Government has created some lines of funding for the IPSS, such as the Social Credit Line Invest and more recently the Social Sector Support Line COVID-19, funding lines intended solely for the IPSS, which have left out the institutions of public utility, which do a very important social work to respond to the most emerging social and often also environmental problems. We would like to know whether the CFP considers that these institutions should continue to stay out of these funding lines. Secondly, I cannot fail to ask you whether, as a result of the health context we have experienced and in which we expect episodes of outbreaks, particularly with regard to early childhood equipment, the CFP does not consider that, at a particularly difficult stage like this, it would be important not only to make a survey of all existing responses, either from the public sector, or from the private sector, since this network should indeed give a joint response in a synergy perspective. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u110	You have the floor for the next request for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u111	The next request for clarification lies with Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I welcome the CFP for bringing to the debate this important matter, which has been increasingly focused on, since it is not today that the difficulties of the elderly and dependents are known. over the last few years, families have seen the need for spaces to support them in order to be able to combine family responsibilities with work responsibilities, either in support of their older relatives, or in the need of a network of child support equipment, with regulation of working hours that allow healthy management of each situation. In today’s world, families have less and less direct family support and society is required to respond to this issue, while at the same time inviting women and men to divide their responsibilities in the education of their children. The difficulties and shortcomings mentioned by the honourable Member are not today. However, the pandemic we live in has shown, clearly and clearly, that it is necessary to create a national network of homes and day care so that no one is left without the support that he needs, whether in health care or in the fight against loneliness, either in the right to develop capacities in a healthy way, which the day care allows children. Therefore, Mrs Diana Ferreira, I ask you if you do not consider it necessary to draw up, urgently, a plan to create a public network of day care centres covering the whole country, with a view, above all, to ensuring free daycare for all children up to the age of three — as the Greens proposed in their draft resolution, which did not deserve the reception of this House — allowing these problems that have intensified to be less a concern for thousands of families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u113	The last request for clarification lies with Mrs Helga Correia of the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to welcome the CFP for bringing to the debate such important and current issue as this of social equipment in the homes and day-care centres, at such a particular moment, that the institutions of social solidarity played a fundamental role in this pandemic period, because they were in the front line and they were so little able to do much in support of our elderly, our children, even those — and I stress — who are in illegal homes. The CFP today talks about illegal homes, but in the past it was unable to follow a proposal from the Social Democratic Party. But I would also like to highlight the question of the institutions, both those on the public network and those who are not on the public network, and who provide public service, as mentioned above, and who replace the State in the role it should have and which does not have in support of the most vulnerable people, which should be exalted by this Parliament. We know that these answers are as or more effective or as or more efficient according to the greater proximity, or not, of these answers... [[Pause.]] I am sorry, Mr President, but there is a background noise in the Chamber and I cannot concentrate. Continuing, and going back to get you to realize, we know that these answers are as effective according to the proximity that this service takes with the most vulnerable populations and we know that both the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party value these proximity services. In conclusion, Mrs Diana Ferreira, as the PCP is a partner — who has been — of the PS in the State budget, I would like to ask you a few questions: after all, what has changed or what has not changed? Or, then, what will require the government to change, since they are privileged partners in the negotiations of this State budget, at this particular moment? Are you going to use the same cartridge that the PCP has used and that we all know well?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u115	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u116	I will now finish, Mr President. It is the cartilage of everything in the public sphere and nothing in the private or solidarity sphere. After all, how does the Communist Party stand in this State Budget? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u117	You have the floor to answer these last requests for clarification, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also thank Mrs Bebiana Cunha, Mrs Mariana Silva and Mrs Helga Correia for their questions. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, there is something we have to say about these lines of funding which you have also mentioned here — it must be taken into account that these lines of funding often strangle the institutions themselves, and this must of course be evaluated. Many IPSS, some years ago, were not private institutions of social solidarity, were associations of the most varied compositions, the area of culture, the area of recreation, the area of sport and other areas, and that, by law, and to access a set of support, because the State's funding for the popular association movement decreased significantly, were forced to also become IPSS. This is a reality that we cannot fail to highlight either. Of course, the lifting of the set of responses that exist in the country is necessary. In fact, the Social Charter is far from being fully identified and updated with the answers that exist at the moment. That is why, of course, the survey of the type of responses that exist is necessary to know whether or not they are suitable for the region in which they are inserted. But what reality also tells us is that the gaps in social responses are many. On the other hand, in relation to waiting lists, as I have already mentioned, at home, at day care centres, but also to other deficiencies in the context of social responses and child support equipment, youth, people with disabilities, adults and the elderly, it is also the responsibility of the State to ensure these same answers. Mrs Mariana Silva, of course, that it is important to draw up a daycare plan, a plan for the implementation of a public daycare network to the point of entry into pre-school, which is what we are talking about, which also guarantees the universality of the response. The intervention by the Greens Ecological Party, like the CFP, has had in this regard, and being positive what was enshrined in the previous State budget, of course it is important to go much further, only the first step does not reach. It is necessary to extend the freeness of daycare facilities, ensure their universality and also ensure the creation of a public network to meet all needs throughout the country, considering even specific needs of the territory, which are also very different. Mrs Helga Correia, we also know the PSD cartridge. In fact, the PSD cartridge, for example in 2013, when it was in government with the CDS, was to close the latest public responses in this area, removing them from the height of social security and delivering them to the solidarity sector. So this is actually the PSD cartridge that we already know. But the PSD cartridge is not what the country needs, Mrs. Deputy. The country does not need the privatization of social rights, the country does not need to encourage businesses at the expense of social rights or need the mercantilization of social rights. The country needs public networks of social equipment of proximity and quality that respond to the needs of users and populations and that respect the labour rights of its workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u119	We move on to the next political declaration, which is up to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has intended to bring to this political declaration what is the economic recovery of the country. Portugal, Europe and the world have been confronted with a pandemic crisis that has rapidly evolved into an economic crisis and has degenerated into a violent social crisis that is still at the beginning of it. To talk about economic recovery means, of course, talking about what was a plan, a vision that the government has given, the Costa Silva Plan. Regardless of the disagreement with some of the ideas of that plan, particularly those that are most statisticizing, the CDS even praised the one who was an example of civic availability—sometimes we criticize and point out the finger to civil society for not participating in public life. Therefore, regardless of the vision we have of that plan, we can only praise when there are people with quality, with training, who are available to serve the country. We have always had the public presentation of this plan with a huge show, the show the Socialist Party is used to. We have had the discussion of the plan here too in Parliament. We had the discussion of the plan also in the media space. And then what did we have? We had Mr. Prime Minister calling and summoning the parties to hear what they had ideas and what they thought of that same plan, delivering a PowerPoint to each party. After that, the Prime Minister understood—and well! — to promote a debate in this Parliament, and what we have today is only a PowerPoint with 15 pages and with the schedule of the Recovery and Resilience Plan ( PRR ). We know that this plan is essentially based on three major blocks: the block of resilience, the block of digital transition and the block of climate transition and that these three blocks are subdivided into many other areas and that the plan contains an estimate, a number with many and many million euros in each of these areas. But what does this schedule, which I have here, provide for the Recovery and Resilience Plan? We were hoping that today, on 14 October, Mr Prime Minister was here in Parliament, precisely presenting this same plan. He made another option: he intended to present, not far away, in Gulbenkian, in a session for social communication, what is the first version of a plan to be presented in Brussels tomorrow and of which Parliament has a huge ignorance. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions we have to ask here today, and perhaps only the Socialist Party can answer, are these: what investments will indicate this plan which compromise the country and which tomorrow will be delivered in Brussels? at the level of the European funds — they are European funds that will support this very plan, what does Parliament know? Parliament was not informed, there was no debate, i.e. there was no scrutiny. This is the House of Democracy. And even using the expression of a member of this government, I ask: do people not have the right to know what Portugal will commit to in Brussels? [[Here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u121	Yesterday I heard two ministers here in Parliament saying « Mr Prime Minister went to Parliament, until he promoted the parliamentary debate, called the political parties and heard them... ». But the question is: after that debate, after these meetings, what was the result? What will be presented in Brussels? Parliament does not know, we do not know, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at a time when we speak so often in extremism, it is precisely the lack of information, transparency that opens the door and space to these same extremisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to be aware that what the Government will deliver in Brussels tomorrow, such a plan, will compromise the country, at least in the next decade, on social matters, on infrastructure, on mobility, on territorial cohesion, on decarbonisation, etc. We are in a house and in a Parliament that debates everything and something else. This issue, which is essential, should be discussed here as well as the options that the Government wants to take to Brussels. I conclude by saying the following: today, they say we live the so-called « new normal». I'd say this isn't normal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u122	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, wrote to ask for clarification, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Do you want to answer separately or together?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u123	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u124	All right, Mr. Deputies. I begin by giving the floor to request clarifications from Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u125	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I congratulate you on your choice of the subject. The current pandemic situation has certainly posed new and important challenges. The Government of the Socialist Party places as central, either in the Recovery and Resilience Plan, or in the State Budget for 2021, a countercyclical policy and a policy that bets on the multiplier effects. Mr. Member, Portugal will have the new Community framework and the Recovery and Resilience Plan, the highest financial value in European funds in the next 10 years, between 2021 and 2030, between Portugal 2020. And it is our responsibility to ensure that the country uses these funds in the best possible way, which is why it was also important today, in particular, to approve the law on public procurement in the Committee on Economic Affairs. But let's focus on the debate. He said that the debate on the Recovery and Resilience Plan was not held in Parliament. Now, I remember that it was the Government itself who called for a debate in this House with Mr Prime Minister — it was at the request of Mr Prime Minister, Mr President! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u126	I also recall that it was the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group that asked Prof. António Costa Silva to come to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing to discuss the plan. I also recall that when the Member of the CDS made a request that the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition and the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing come to the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, the Socialist Party voted favourably and these hearings have already taken place. Therefore, we do not understand why the CDS says there was no debate about this Recovery and Resilience Plan. We don't understand! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. Deputies, 6 minutes were not enough to figure out what the CDS proposals were. What are the CDS' proposals for this Recovery and Resilience Plan? Oh, my God! It's just 6 minutes wasn't enough to get it. Does the CDS disagree with the home bet, which is central in this policy? Does the CDS disagree with the wagering on the railway, in which, over decades, no bet has been made?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u127	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u128	I shall conclude, Mr President. Or does the CDS disagree that you can finally do some road crossings, which have also been left behind because Portugal 2020 did not allow it? We would like to get answers to these questions, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u129	Mr Emídio Guerreiro, from the PSD, now has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u130	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I also welcome this subject. The honourable Member is right about what he says, because what we have had was a very nice PowerPoint, very roundy, where everything is very important, where everything is very priority, like, in fact, it was very clear when we had in the Committee on Economics Prof. Costa Silva, the primary author of this plan and who, to the questions that Mr. Members were doing, saying « it is very important », « it is a priority », « it is very important », « it is a priority »... Now, the truth is this: what is being presented today in Gulbenkian, and not in Parliament, will also be very important and very priority, but we are still not aware of how it takes place. And this is very important. In fact, it is very important to know where, how and where all this money is going to be invested — to realize that it is crucial! It is because the government has spoken a lot, it has presented several very nice PowerPoints, but it does not carry out. The first question I put is exactly about this slowness. We are living very complicated times, times when the economy, unfortunately, is falling, unemployment increases and uncertainties also. What we see is that there is a slowness in the concrete answers. And the real economy, businesses and workers need concrete answers. Therefore, this slowness creates a uncertainty that is not entirely recommended and that is a characteristic feature of this government. We are also concerned about what we know about the State budget because we see that there is a huge maintenance of the state's weight and a forgetfulness of what the real economy is, where jobs are created and where wealth is created. Therefore, Mr President, the question I put to you is to know whether this slowness and uncertainty that the Budget itself also closes and that the government's action has allowed to be transparent over the past few months is not the way we needed to give confidence and create wealth and employment in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u131	Finally, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u132	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, the honourable Member brought here the report of the process and of the path that has so far taken in the framework of the elaboration of the so-called "Plan of Recovery and Resilence". Surely everyone must agree with the need for an in-depth and consistent debate on the options that the country has in front of it. What is different is certainly reducing this debate to a kind of box of suggestions and complaints for those who decide there in Brussels to take account of the occurrence and move forward with approval on the back of our country. This is unacceptable! But now the rest is also lacking, Mr President, which is to hear about what this also translates and what this means in relation to these policies of subordination of our country and of the governance of the fundamental options for our collective future to the dictatorships emanating from Brussels, and to comply with what is given as guidance from there and going there to subject something to approval — we do not, but the government — then the government shows to the country and to the Assembly of the Republic what has been approved there. We do not agree with this process, but we also want to say a word about the content, because on the content you did not have time to talk or did not remember to speak. But on the content, Mr President, I would also like to ask you a question relating to the fundamental options which, at this time, must be placed on the table and discussed, such as support for the productive sectors, national production, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which is substantially different from giving money to themselves of custom, large businesses and multinationals, so that they then have workers as disposable parts, which has happened — to give just a few examples of the Setúbal district — in Autoeuropa, the Continental and Lauak, where workers have been treated as disposable parts, having been quickly announced or triggered collective dismissal processes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u133	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. The same happened, more recently, at SPAL (Société de Porcelanas de Alcobaça ), which, after receiving money from the state to the layoff, having the workers paid off, now makes collective layoffs of dozens of workers. I ask you, honourable Member, whether or not you have something to say about what we have in front of us in relation to the rights of those who work and wages as a factor and condition for development and for the response to the problems of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u135	To reply, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u136	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions raised. I begin by replying to Mr Hugo Costa of the Socialist Party, who must not have listened carefully to my speech. I did not say that there had been no debate—including, I commended the Prime Minister for promoting a debate and coming here to Parliament. And I praised the fact that the Prime Minister has called the parties and heard them. In fact, the honourable Member must be distracted, because the Prime Minister here, in that same debate, thanked the contributions that the different banks had made in this same private conversation. What we do not know, sir, is the result of these conversations. We do not know what the debate was here in Parliament, what Mr. Prime Minister was able to or did not retain from this same debate. And, Mr. Deputy, or by chance, I was just making the political statement from the gallery and I receive a message on my mobile, saying: « António Costa presents a recovery plan on Gulbenkian ». Mr President, what I said was that this plan should be presented here and discussed by the various parties before being presented in Brussels. That's exactly what I said. I would also like to ask the honourable Member for proposals from the CDS. But we don't even know the PS plan! The CDS proposals were transmitted in this debate—and I heard several—and in the discussion with Mr Prime Minister. I would also like to thank Mr Emídio Guerreiro for the questions raised, particularly at the time of uncertainty. With regard to the time of uncertainty, I want to tell you that there is a certainty that we have, and that it is the only certainty we can have at this time: that is what we are going to have European funds. We still don't know where they're going to be used, but we already know we're going to have them. And that, apparently not, is important for the challenge we have for the next 10 years, since it is a big financial envelope, and we must use these funds in the best possible way. I would also like to say to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP that we seem to agree. It is important to know here in this Parliament what will or will not be presented in Brussels. I should like to say that I am surprised at the Communist Party in some of these debates. It is because the Communist Party says: "We do not want anything with Europe, we do not want anything from Brussels." But then, when it comes to money and Community funds, the Communist Party has already said: "We want to have a word to say there." [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Mr President, these European funds will help solve many of the issues you have raised, such as the problems of companies, the problem of stopping unemployment itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u137	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u138	I shall conclude, Mr President. I finish by saying the following: it was important to know the plan in detail. We don't even know if we're going to meet him today, if only after Brussels, we don't know when we're going to meet him. So here is the challenge of the Socialist Party to put pressure on the government so that it can make that plan known. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u139	We move on to the political declaration of the PAN Parliamentary Group. To that end, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The opportunity to have access to the European funds that are coming here is undoubtedly an important lever for the country. But this opportunity also brings us the great responsibility of ensuring not only adequate use of these same funds but also greater transparency in their application and the possibility of Portuguese being able to participate in decision-making on their use. For months now, the NAP has been saying, perennially, that the health crisis not only had the effect of making corruption disappear, as it was with it the danger of increasing this phenomenon, which is already so damaging to our country. Alerts have not been missed and come from such different entities as the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), GRECO ( Group of States against Corruption ), the Corruption Prevention Council ( CPC ), the Court of Auditors or the International Transparency ( IT ). All these entities have warned of vulnerability to lobbyists, increased conflicts of interest, risk of bribes or threat of falsification of documents and even medical products. Moreover, the solutions that have been proposed by these entities to prevent and address these risks are clear and, in particular, the creation of new transparency mechanisms, the strengthening of control and supervision mechanisms, both exceptional measures to deal with the health crisis and the measures they are preparing for the recovery and economic recovery phase. It was precisely the way to strengthen the monitoring and control mechanisms recommended by these various international entities, which we wanted, when, last June, we proposed here that the Parliamentary Committee for the Monitoring of COVID-19 should also have the competence to assess the financial impact and transparency of the response and recovery measures we are experiencing, something which has been rejected by this Parliament. These mechanisms of transparency and scrutiny are of particular importance and are quite important in terms of European funds, their management and their implementation, because this seems to be the right way if we want to avoid the risks of corruption, for which we have already been alerted. It is good to remember that, in 32 years, our country received EUR 130 billion from European funds and there are several studies that tell us that these funds did not serve to make the structural reforms needed by the country and that this implementation process could have been challenged by the excessive centralization of the decision-making process, by creating artificial difficulties of candidacy, by the lack of civil society and the business fabric, by a certain tendency towards patronage phenomena and by their instrumentalization for election purposes. And it is not us who say it, but precisely the studies that exist in this regard. For example, we see the 2019 report of the European Anti-Fraud Agency ( OLAF ), which tells us that between 2015 and 2019, within the framework of the structural and agricultural funds, our country lost about 1, 92 % as a result of fraud and irregularities and was the eighth country of the European Union with the highest percentage of losses. But the loss of European funds for corruption is not the only problem of applications, either at the management stage or at the implementation stage. There is also a clear departure from civil society, a phenomenon that we should be very concerned about and which is evident from last year's Eurobarometer data, which tells us that only 38 % of Portuguese people are aware of the projects co-financed by the European Union in their region and that only 12 % feel that these funds have brought an improvement to their daily lives. These data should call on us not only to act for greater transparency, but also for greater proximity to civil society, so that the management and implementation of European funds are not, as in the past, carried out in a closed circuit, but also for an implementation that ensures adequate monitoring and monitoring mechanisms and for citizen participation. Well, there is a need for additional control mechanisms that are already in place. This is why the NAP announced, at the beginning of August, that it would propose the creation of a transparency portal for European funds which, in real time, would present the measures, supported projects, its budgetary cost, the number of beneficiaries, the beneficiary entities, the criteria for allocation, its degree of implementation and other relevant aspects, which in no way may be confused with the existing and markedly turned base.gov portal. This is therefore a measure recommended by the IMF for the period of health crisis and consequent recovery, and has even been enshrined in the Costa Silva plan, already applied in some countries. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we have proposed to the Government, and we have already had the opportunity to hear the agreement of the Prime Minister in this House. And that will be precisely what we will materialize in discussion on the speciality of the Budget for 2021. But the transparency portal is not enough to bring civil society closer to the stages of application, management and implementation of the European funds. We're talking about money that's everyone's money and that's why it must have a direct impact on the lives of Portuguese people. We are talking about options that will condition the country's medium- and long-term future, which will condition the political choices of future governments, they have the political color they have, and this is what you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something we need to keep in mind immediately. That is why, because we are talking about issues that directly affect the lives of our fellow citizens, the NAP believes that it is necessary to go further and create an independent committee composed of organisations representing civil society and independent citizens, without partisan links, which will accompany all phases of the European funds which will soon be reached and which, with their contributions, will assist the Parliamentary Committee on Monitoring in the recovery phase. We also recall that it was thanks to a legislative initiative of the NAP that this Parliament extended the scope of matters which could be the subject of citizens' legislative initiative, which constitutes a huge advance in the field of participatory democracy. We then know how to continue to make these advances and, as part of the specialization of the State budget for 2021, to be able to bring participatory democracy to the implementation of European funds and thus to avoid mistakes from the past and to contribute, above all, to something that should mobilize us: to increase the confidence of our fellow citizens in the bodies of sovereignty. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u141	Mrs Duarte Marques, the Bureau noted that her political statement gave rise to a request for clarification from Mr Duarte Marques of the PSD. You have the floor to do this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP brings the debate to an important issue that has been involved in some poor populism with those who over the past two or almost three decades have used Community funds in Portugal. What would happen to Portugal, hospitals, the homes of the elderly, schools, universities, businesses if it were not the use of Community funds? They weren't so badly applied. But can we do better? We can, and that is why the proposal that the NAP has already put forward was also followed by other parties and, fortunately, the Government itself has already taken the intention to present the transparency portal. But the truth is that the Framework Programme itself already has such a portal. I draw attention to the fact that, in the midst of the discussion of the Community funds that are coming here, there is an amount equivalent to the European bazouca which is still to be used. It is EUR 12 billion that Portugal has wasted European funds, which we have to use and invest, not to spend. But I put the following challenge to the NAP: follows the PSD on a proposal which entered the Bureau of the Assembly last Monday, which obliges the Government to submit a quarterly report on the negotiation, implementation and implementation of the European bazouca in Portugal and to come, every three months, to the Committee on Economic Affairs to clarify, present, demonstrate and monitor what is in place with this money? Two years to run 70 % of the amount is too little to leave the government without the pressure to run fast and well. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD will be here to examine, to propose alternatives, but above all to defend the interest of the citizens in which this opportunity of European funds is being used well, not to replace the state in what has to be done with the austerity of recent years, but to make structural reforms that allow the country to grow more and better and that allow businesses to grow again as in the past. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u143	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, however, the Socialist Party has signed up with a Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to request clarifications. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u144	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u145	All right. Before I give the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos to ask for clarification, I would ask the honourable Members. Members who comply with the rule of registering while the political declaration is being given. Mrs Cláudia Santos, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is associated with the NAP's conviction about the need to ensure transparency in access to Community funds. However, it seems peculiar that it reflects on this matter of such great relevance without taking into account the National Strategy for Combating Corruption 2020 - 2024, which is under public discussion and which provides for a set of mechanisms that seem of extraordinary relevance to address this risk of corruption. We would therefore like to know the opinion of the NAP on two of these mechanisms, two of the solutions provided for in the National Strategy for Combating Corruption which we consider to be of great importance in preventing corruption in access to Community funds, including active corruption of legal persons and companies. Firstly, the Strategy provides for the mandatory compliance programmes, or regulatory compliance programmes, and, more than that requirement, the evaluation of the effectiveness of these regulatory compliance programmes is required. Question: Does the NAP recognise the essentiality of this measure? Secondly, we do not have a criminal procedural status for legal persons at the moment, which means that a company which is charged in a criminal proceedings for corruption, or which has already been convicted in the first instance for corruption, is still able to apply to European funds or to compete for public tenders. The Strategy specifically refers to the need to create a catalogue of coercive measures for collectives that prevent them, during the duration of the criminal proceedings, from competing in public tenders or entering European funds. Therefore, we cannot discuss this matter as if nothing was being done about it. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government are deeply committed to the prevention and repression of corruption and we would like to know the opinion of the NAP on these two concrete measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u147	You have the floor to answer the two requests for clarification, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank both of these questions. With regard to Mr Duarte Marques' questions, there is one aspect which I cannot fail to mention. When you say it's a 'unfair populism', I remember the various studies that exist on the subject and how often an image is worth more than a thousand words, I show you the ranking in matters of irregularities. The speaker displayed a text. As I said recently, the OLAF report puts us in a very inaccurate position on what has been the misuse or even the perception that citizens have about how we use Community funds. Therefore, while he did not disagree with what he next said about the relevance of the Community funds and even the achievement of the goals in its implementation — none of us in this House would want Portugal to waste the opportunity to use these same Community funds, we cannot forget, however, that we also have a duty to transparency, to strengthen control and control mechanisms so that past mistakes are not committed again. Despite virtues, there have also been many vicissitudes and many vices that we cannot ignore. Mr President, on the other issue you have raised, in particular whether we are following the PSD in the proposal for a quarterly report to the Committee on Economic Affairs, of course we are accompanying everything that could constitute these strengthening mechanisms. What we regret is that we have already seen a decrease in the participation of the Government itself in this House, in particular with the end of the 15-year debates, because this would also be a more than appropriate moment in order to be able to confront the Prime Minister with concerns that are certainly common to all of us. in this sense, it will certainly not be the NAP that will hinder this proposal, quite the contrary, because we are also very concerned about the use of these funds. If there is a European bazouca, we all want to know how to use it instead of being here shooting at our feet. With regard to the issues which Mrs Cláudia Santos has put to us, and which, from now on, I am very grateful, the NAP accompanies these concerns, of course, with regard to the importance of the National Strategy for Combating Corruption itself, whether it is mandatory for compliance programmes, which seem to us to be of greatest relevance, either in criminal proceedings, in particular for the responsibility of the public, thereby avoiding the possibility of competing with funds when proceedings are taking place in this field. What we propose with this measure is a strengthening of supervisory mechanisms, because the existing mechanisms will eventually have their weaknesses, Mrs Deputies, and we must learn from all these processes to ensure that information is, above all, accessible and legible by the citizens. We cannot have a Base.gov portal, for example, which, despite its kindness and relevance, is legible, for example, for journalists, technicians or other qualified people, while most citizens, if they want to obtain information about whether they are running applications or how these funds are being used, they cannot read the same information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u149	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u150	I conclude now, Mr President. Therefore, this value that comes there is extremely important for Portugal. We know how to use it, but above all we have the responsibility to demonstrate how we are doing it. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u151	Mrs. Members, in order to give the next political statement to the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, have the floor Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State budget for 2021 is a combat budget. It is a budget to combat the public health crisis and the economic and social crisis which, unexpectedly and suddenly, fell on our country. It is a Budget based on dialogue and discussions in recent months with the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. It is a budget that ensures the line of previous fiscal years. It is a budget that respects the choice of the majority of voters, who have spoken in the legislative elections, i.e. that respects the guidance lines of the PS programme with understanding on the left. The path pursued by the PS and its parliamentary partners has reached and surpassed economic and social goals such as economic growth above the European average, the historic job creation rate and the fight against inequalities, a path that has transformed the Portuguese economy into a more resilient economy and has enabled it to face a totally unexpected crisis with appropriate measures at the stage of the emergence and the stage of economic and social stabilization. It is therefore particularly important to remember that the State budget for 2021 does not fall back by one millimeter in the achievements of the last five years E, in addition to maintaining the set of measures that have served the governmental priorities of the last five years, this State budget advances in all areas and these advances result from the negotiations that have taken place over the past few months. These are advances resulting from approximations between the Government and the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP : strengthening the National Health Service, through the hiring of 4200 professionals for hospitals and health centres ; hiring 260 professionals for INEM ; creating a risk allowance for health professionals who are on the front line in the fight against COVID-19 ; strengthening the public school, with the hiring of about 3000 operational assistants; strengthening the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in order to extend the number of users who may benefit from this collective transport pass. It provides for the strengthening of income protection measures: the increase of the national minimum wage, keeping the target of €750 in 2023 ; the extraordinary increase from €6 to €10 in lower pensions; the reduction of IRS retention rates; the reduction of electricity VAT; the return of VAT paid in restoration, housing and culture in vouchers to spend in the same areas; and the extension of the freeness of public and social network day care to all children of the families of the first and second steps. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also provides for the strengthening of social protection measures: an increase to €504 of the minimum value of unemployment benefit for those who have been employed full-time; an extraordinary social support for workers in unemployment or reduction of activity to never have income below the poverty threshold, i.e. below €501; a strengthening of employment support measures and combating job insecurity, such as the suspension of the expiry of collective labour contracts; large companies with profits registered in 2020 may benefit from public support only if they remain at the level of employment in the coming year; new duties on work links on the part of digital platforms; a new limit on temporary work renewals; more powers of supervision and intervention and more human resources for the Labour Authority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also provides for the strengthening of public investment by around 20 % compared to the current year. And on the New Bank it is assured that in 2021 the State will not lend a euro to the Resolution Fund. Thus the claim of many, in particular the Left Block, is answered. It is guaranteed that there will be no transfer of capital from the State to the Resolution Fund. These new measures are advances that meet the challenges facing the country. These are advances resulting from approaches to the Left Block, the PCP and the ENP. There is no reason to waste these advances, much less by political tactics or a party agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No Portuguese would understand or accept that, on a global pandemic crisis and an ongoing economic and social crisis, a political crisis would be created. Let us look at the example of the European Union: European leaders have been able to generate the absolutely necessary understanding within them. Most Member States have surpassed even greater differences than the differences between some parties in this House, and have done so because they know that a political crisis in the European Union would only delay the answers necessary for combating pandemics, protecting family income and economic recovery. We cannot applaud European advances and at the same time pretend that political stability is not the essential basis for combating the pandemic and the economic and social crisis. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to those who say that there is no problem where the country starts the year 2021 with twelfths, as the Left Block said days ago, we say that being against this budget is against the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CH's laughs.]] Let it be clear that negotiations between the Government, the Left Block, the CFP and the ENP have generated unquestionable advances, advances representing hundreds of millions of euros and that will benefit hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. If for the Left Block these advances are fires, for the PS these advances fulfill the plan that we leave no one behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the Socialist Party, negotiations will continue, either at the stage of generality or at the stage of speciality, as always happened. Negotiations with the Left Block, PCP and ENP are the priority of the Government and the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u153	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u154	I will finish, Mr. President. Understandings are achieved with concessions from both sides. Those who present new red lines all the time just want to make negotiations difficult and impossible. The way is understanding. The PS is next to whoever tries to dialogue. Advances and this Budget cannot be wasted, because it is a Combat Budget, a prudent Budget in a world of uncertainties. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u155	Mr João Paulo Correia, the Bureau records seven entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u156	I shall first respond to a group of three and then to a group of four, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u157	We then moved on to the first group of requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u158	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, the Portuguese bear in mind that the PS has chosen the parties from the far left to reach a majority in Parliament, bear in mind that these parties from the far left have responded to the request for courtship and this link and that this relationship to three has flowed well, while the times were of fat cows, while the times were of ease and while there was money. But the relation to three has changed in the face of the first difficulties. At the time of truth, when the government and the PS were required to be at the right time and the government and the PS were in line with the choices they made in the past and never tire of reaffirming in this House, what do the government and the PS have to offer the Portuguese? They have to offer a state budget proposal that was not able to consensualize with their traveling companions. What they have to offer to the Portuguese are the successive complaints, criticisms and even blackmails about the conduct of their former traveling companions — the Left Block and the PCP. What the Government and the PS have to offer to the Portuguese is the pre-announcement of a political crisis, which would add to a pandemic crisis, a health crisis, an economic crisis and a social crisis, all that the Portuguese dispense. But unfortunately, that is exactly the only thing the PS and the government have to offer to the Portuguese. So, Mr. João Paulo Correia, my question is very simple: where for the sense of responsibility of the PS and the government before the Portuguese? Is this what you have to offer us? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u159	The next request for clarification lies with Mr André Ventura, from the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u160	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, you said that the State budget is advancing in all areas, and it is true, it is right, it is advancing in all areas. For example, the vast majority of pensions are due to be updated on January 1 next year. It is a step forward to what Mr. Prime Minister said nine months ago! ...I also said, 10 months ago, that this would be the Budget that would safeguard the survival of companies. That too, according to all the entities that have already spoken about it, has left behind! It was an advance, too! Open... But he was able to move on to something else: in an amalgam of support programmes that came to increase bureaucracy as we have never seen in Portugal. Mr. Member, you can blackmail the Left Block and the PCP whenever you understand, but you can't come and tell this House that anyone who is against the Budget is against the Country. That reminds us of the phrase « whoever is not with us is against us», and that is no longer the case, Mr President, we live in a democratic state! If the Socialist Party has not even managed to convince its travel partners to make this budget viable, how will it convince the country that this is the budget that the country needs to respond to the crisis?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u161	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u162	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, first of all I would like to thank you for bringing this issue to the Assembly of the Republic, which is of the greatest relevance and current, because we are indeed talking about a budget that happens at a very complex time for the country, which will not have an impact only on the year 2021. We must be aware that—and for those who are at home to understand—this Budget will also have its impact in the coming decades, and that, necessarily, the economic recovery will not be consolidated only in 2021. That is why we must not fail to make a criticism that we have already had the opportunity to do. This budget has just been of continuity, it is not a turning point, it does not have to be a political option for a new model of development that is fairer and more sustainable: it is fairer from the social and economic point of view, but sustainable from the environmental point of view, and we have heard little about it. In terms of climate, we cannot fail to note that it is completely out of line with some of the views of Costa Silva and the economic recovery plan for the country, in particular in the recovery plan and support for companies, for positive incentives for this same environmental conversion, which is imperative also to be done in the energy transition, which must also be done in the polluting industries, in the intensive and superintensive agriculture and livestock sector, which has so far benefited from perverse exemptions and subsidies in an absolutely incomprehensible way. Therefore, it seems important to us to realize how far the Socialist Party and its Government are available to go in this Budget, having an environmentally fairer and more appropriate commitment to the reality of the climate crisis, which has not disappeared. On the other hand, in relation to these direct support to companies, because more direct support is needed and not just because of indebtedness, we want to know if they are available to support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u163	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u164	I conclude now, Mr President. With regard to those who are perverse subsidies—there is an elephant in the room called New Bank—we have not heard of the possibility of renegotiating these contracts, so that, once and for all, not only not to inject money, but also to renegotiate the contracts of the New Bank. We'd like to know if they're available for that. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u165	To respond to these three requests for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u166	Mr President, I would like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Jorge Paulo Oliveira, André Ventura e Inês de Sousa Real. Starting by responding to Mrs PAN, I would like to say that the Socialist Party is available so that, in the field of expertise, we can make further progress in the discussions that have been held between the Government, the PS and the NAP in the fields of environmental policy, in meeting some expectations presented by the NAP and that the honourable Member had the opportunity to reproduce. In the specialty — or rather, in the specialty, in the voting process in general and then in the specialty — we are available for the necessary approximations. I did not hear Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira and Mr André Ventura's remarks about what the State budget presents. I have not heard any frontal criticism of your progress. I think none of the gentlemen. Members disagree with the strengthening of the National Health Service, with the hiring of more than 4000 professionals, nor with the strengthening of INEM. They will certainly not disagree with the creation of the extraordinary risk allowance for health professionals in the front line of the fight against COVID, nor will they, of course, disagree with the increase in the minimum wage, the increase in the minimum limit of unemployment benefit, the extraordinary increase in pensions. They will not disagree with the new social benefit, nor with the increase in public investment and also with the decline in electricity VAT, or with the decline in the tax burden itself, which this year falls to levels of 2012, according to more recent studies, the weight of GDP taxes (gross domestic product) and will not disagree with the tax support measure for the most affected sectors, such as restoration, housing and the arts. From that point of view, we would like to note that, not being against this proposal for the State budget, we expect them to present the contributions they intend to make, now, in the general debate, and then also in the specialty, so that they can come to the debate, because without concrete proposals it is difficult to promote the debate of proposals that are not known. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u167	We moved on to the second group of requests for clarification. To that end, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u168	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr João Paulo Correia and telling him that this political statement was a sort of rude part 2. We had part one with the Left Block and now we had part two with the PS. I confess that I no longer know very well who is blackmailing who, but there is one thing I know: the country needs everything but the continuation of these scenes. I confess that I did not understand, because apparently Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, a little while ago, was very surprised by the PS, sometimes he did not fulfill the things he put in the Budget and commits himself to the Left Block, and now Mr. He is also very surprised, because apparently he discovered that the Left Block has a certain tendency to like to be in the photograph and to put a few phrases in an outdoor, when the measures are nice, but when there is some difficulty and something goes wrong, when we are in crisis, he already goes out and doesn't want to appear in the photograph. Mr. Deputy, after five years, have you had a scratch and you noticed this? Are you very surprised? This has been evident from the outset, Mr President. So I still don't understand. There's something else that agreed that the PS would explain as well. It is because it has decided to sit only with certain parties and various parties have already explained their sense of vote in relation to the Budget, but for the Budget to move from generality to specialty, it is appropriate for the parties to put their senses of vote on the table. I understand that they can change from general to specialty, but in order to switch to specialty, it will be necessary that either the Left Block or the PCP or the PSD, someone here at least abstains.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u169	At the PSD bench they all saw their heads side by side!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u170	This seems to me to be evidence and therefore I would like to understand what the PS is planning to do about it. Finally, Mr President, of all the measures you have spoken about, in fact, there is one thing I understand: there was room for a lot of things, but what there was no margin was for a relief in the IRS, even though a very small relief, of 200 million euros, of which you had spoken. What's going to be there is just, I repeat, just one measure in the holding table at the source. I'd like to know why this choice is, why there's room for everything...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u171	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u172	... less for a relief in the IRS, which is the fairest of all, because it is according to the yield and is directed to the middle class. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u173	You now have the floor, also to ask for clarifications, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u174	Mr. President, whoever is listening to today's political statements has already realized that we are watching a kind of film or novel, called The Bill of Gingomnance, in which the protagonist, PS, fight for survival and lovers, Block and PCP, fight for relevance in this Budget,... [[Rice from PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ...that, as we have been able to say, it has already been noticed that it delays and postpones the recovery of Portugal, in fact protects the State, but completely protects the economy, which was essential to create quality jobs here forward, does not lower a tax, does not eliminate one of the 4000 fees that have already been identified, does not simplify anything except the public procurement and the Expropriations Code — exactly two places where it should not move, for the sake of the rights of citizens — does not seek to eliminate any of the delays of the SNS and prevent more early deaths in the non-COVID area. When we arrive at the end of this debate, Mr João Paulo Correia tells us that those who are not with this Budget are against the country. Mr President, in the face of this evocation of "who is not with me against me" — I think it is from St Matthew, is it not? — I must tell you that, since we are going to use such evocations, perhaps, one could use more adequately the one « to catch a liar faster than a thigh».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u175	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, after the psychoanalytic record of the CDS and the telenovel registration of the Liberal Initiative, wanted to ask you serious questions about the State budget, from the problems that the State budget has to answer. It is in the face of national problems and the answer that is required to make the assessment on whether or not the State budget corresponds to the objectives which it expects. We noted yesterday that, in our view, the State budget does not respond to the structural problems of the country — which is evidence and an easy finding — but we also noted that the Government has made the option of writing in a very partial and limited way some of the proposals for which the CFP has been beaten, seeking that there is a response to these national problems, and that this option does not, in fact, allow a correspondence to be found with the necessary response to each of these problems. On the other hand, we have also said that the weighting of the CFP will be done according to the overall response to national problems. Therefore, the ball is on the government's side and it is the government that has to say whether or not there is room for that response, whether or not there is a prospect of responding to these problems, which are identified—and it is not necessary to study much to understand them, just look at the economic and social reality, the reality of unemployment, cuts in wages, poverty, the problems of precariousness and the emphasis on the exploitation of those who work, the difficulties of public services. And we find, for each of these problems, a possibility of solution to the proposals by which the CFP has been beaten, but to which the State budget does not respond. I would like to say to you, Mr. João Paulo Correia, that this is particularly evident in some matters, as we said yesterday. For example, the pay supplement for essential service workers cannot cover only a small part of health workers, because there are workers in essential health services, forces and security services, urban hygiene and cleaning and many other services, such as firefighters, workers who were forced to continue to work in person during the confinement period. And these workers have the right to see them be recognized as being the condition in which they were forced to work and in which they continue today to respond to the needs of the Portuguese. There are public investment needs. There are fiscal response needs...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u177	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u178	I conclude, Mr. President. There are fiscal needs to respond beyond the problem of retention at source, which is a problem that needs to be solved. The PS's commitment to IRS was to review the steps and it is because of these commitments that need to be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u179	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u180	I conclude by saying the following: Mr. João Paulo Correia, the restrictions that exist in some rules of the State budget, for example in relation to the hiring of workers and public investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u181	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u182	...replicating previous budget rules, they are not compatible with the announcements made by the Government regarding the objectives of hiring workers for public services...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u183	Mr João Oliveira, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u184	...and increasing public investment. How is the PS going to unravel this knot, for example, which is just one of many others that we could mention? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u185	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u186	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, the Budget can no longer promise doctors and then not give guarantees for doctors to stay in the SNS. This is a problem we have already identified, in fact, that is why it went wrong over the past year. The Government cannot promise a benefit to combat poverty and then provide extraordinary support that will only cover most people for six months and leaves many poor families outside. The government cannot say it wants to protect employment, but refuse to change and restore redundancies, which prevent redundancies and protect employment. The Government cannot say that the State is outside the New Bank and then the budget maps show 476 million for the New Bank, of which 180 million are financed by State channelled taxes to the Resolution Fund and the rest is financed by a loan that, as you know, will be paid with future taxes. So, Mr. João Paulo Correia, I would like to tell you something — and understand the advice as to how to understand: blackmail will not protect the country from the crisis. It is not under blackmail that we will protect people from what is so difficult to come with this crisis. We know that times are difficult, we know that people will suffer unemployment, poverty, we know that SNS will be under pressure. That is why we are so demanding with our responsibilities: because, within six months, people who do not have access to the benefit will ask for responsibilities to those who voted for the Budget; because, within six months, people who come over 476 million to go to the New Bank will ask for responsibilities to whom they voted for the Budget; because, within six months, when people go to the SNS and health professionals are not there, because, meanwhile, they have either left or not been hired, they will ask for responsibilities to whom they voted for the Budget. That is why I repeat, Mr President: it is not with blackmails that we will defend people and the country. We will defend the country with strong measures, with enormous responsibility, but also with enormous demands.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u187	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u188	I conclude, Mr. President. If the PS wants to reconsider, he knows that the Left Block has the door open and, another thing, he knows exactly what the measures are on the table, because they are the same since the first day we started negotiating. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u189	You have the floor to answer these four requests for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u190	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Deputies Cecilia Meireles, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, João Oliveira and Mariana Mortágua. In reply to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to say that even when the Socialist Party Government, with the support of the parliamentary partners, has come down the IRS on families, which today pay less than EUR 1000 million than they paid at the end of 2015, even in these budgets, the vote of the CDS was "against". Now, by the way, even in relation to the government's measure to lower retention rates in the IRS, allowing families to save about 200 million euros in the year 2021, the CDS is against. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] So, from our point of view, what we are talking about here is being opposed to being against, in fact, the CDS always agreed to be a very strong party in the opposition, but then in power, not being consistent with what it defends. On the issue raised by the Liberal Initiative, the PS does not fight for survival, the PS fights for a budget that fights the pandemic and the economic and social crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what is on the table and you have two options: either contribute to a crisis or enable the Budget, because it makes progress on all fronts. With regard to the issues referred to by the CFP, yes, Mr. João Oliveira, negotiations are fundamental, they have been held for months and will take place until the general debate is concluded, we hope that they will also move on to the specialty, as happened in the previous State budgets, in which negotiations were held before and after the speciality. I would also like to tell Mrs Mariana Mortagua that we share the same priorities. The claims submitted by the Left Block in July this year were four: strengthening essential services, and there it is in the State budget; protection of employment, and measures there are in the State budget; support for families most weakened by the crisis; and there it is in the State budget; and support for the sectors of activity most affected by the crisis, which is also there in the State budget. Therefore, the question is not whether it is blackmail or not, because the PS is not blackmailing. What all Portuguese questions and that is not perceived, and the PS directly interpels the Left Block about it, is the reason for this inflexibility, this rigidity, this change in the political-party agenda of the Left Block, when this Budget brings a set of advances and the Left Block, in front of these advances, considers voting against and unfeasible the Budget. I tell you more, Madam Member: in the State budget for 2020 a capital transfer was planned to the Resolution Fund and that is why the Left Block has not ceased to abstain, as it has also abstained in the State budget for 2020 with a budgetary surplus. Despite all this and despite this budget, it provides for an increase in public expenditure, an increase in public investment, a new social benefit, an increase in minimum wage, an extraordinary increase in pensions and a set of other measures, such as the suspension of the expiry of collective labour contracts, the fight against illegal temporary work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u191	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u192	... the placing of information duties on digital platforms — all materials negotiated with the Left Block and stabilized in conversations with the Left Block —, despite all this,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u193	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u194	...the Left Block rips out the achievements we've made so far...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u195	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u196	... and it is available to unfeasible a budget with concrete advances to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u197	Is that how you want to talk? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u198	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the political declaration of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr António Maló de Abreu has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world and Portugal have been facing, for many months, one of the biggest public health challenges in recent decades. The COVID-19 pandemic has tested health services and its professionals, has pressured social protection systems, has disturbed the daily lives of people, families, and life in society as we knew it. Today we are faced with new, tremendous realities of scale, duration and unpredictable consequences. So we tell everyone here and every one of the Portuguese: never give up! If we give up and lower our arms, once it is, it can be enough to fail. Never give up, for your health! For our collective life, never give up! For the life of our family, our friends, our neighbors, our colleagues, never give up! There is a national plan for us all to be called: to resist, believe and never give up. Today, there is a duty of hope and it is precisely because of this serious uncertainty that the responsible and, from the outset, who governs us to prevent scenarios, calculate risks and take measures in a timely manner to ensure the likely worsening of the country's health situation. But instead of all this, the current government sails in view, at the flavor of the circumstances, when not running to the re or in contrast, dressed in party appearances and conveniences, opening holes to cover holes, which is the same as saying « does it walk, but does not rule or depart from the site».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u200	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u201	Above all, the Socialist Party seeks to take responsibility for its sound, as if it had just come to power. It has responsibilities in 18 of the last 25 years, it has been on the list for precisely five consecutive years, ministers and their secretaries have passed, the moderators are kept, the propaganda is reinforced and the excuses are increased. The narrative of pass-sculpas, a thousand times beaten, as a bomb of the party, reveals an obsessive dependence of the PS / Block Left / PCP League by the channel History, the pair of already chronic hives by the channel Memory. And the Prime Minister still has the ability, let us say, to put them to march, in an indisputable cash-touch, towards the approval of the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u203	With the government's option last March to suspend all the non-COVID programmed activity, the access of patients to health care has worsened even more, it has fallen, thus penalizing strongly the most vulnerable, the oldest, the weakest and the least. We need to reconcile ourselves with those who have been abandoned: all brothers are of a beautiful and priceless present. In the first nine months of 2020, there were fewer than 5 million presence consultations in primary care, less 1 million consultations in hospitals, less 100 000 scheduled surgeries, less 17 million diagnostic and therapeutic examinations, less thousands of screenings, especially in oncology. The average waiting times are 188 days for a first hospital consultation, more than six months for a simple consultation and almost half a year for surgery. It is not surprising, therefore, the brutal increase in non-COVID mortality this year: there were more 7144 deaths than the average of the same months of the last five years. This is a situation of greater gravity, as it dramatically exposes the current weaknesses of the SNS to respond to Portuguese health needs. of the chaos installed only does not see a tragedy that does not want, unless courageous measures are taken, by the deprivation of millions of Portuguese of their right to health protection. This is not the time to wait for miracles. This is your legacy, your kanga, the heritage of degradation that they leave for the future and that requires them to at least lay their hands on conscience and govern—to rule to think of people! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u204	For this purpose, the Government should have designed and implemented, soon in spring, a national emergency plan, aiming to recover the care activity in the National Health Service, a plan that should have already reduced the waiting lists for surgeries and consultations, ensuring respect for the maximum guaranteed response times.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u206	Therefore, the government should have treated the allocation of a family doctor to millions of Portuguese people who do not yet have it. This is another omission that should embarrass those who, four years ago, promised that 2017 would be, once and for all, the year in which all Portuguese would have a family doctor assigned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u207	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u208	The time has come to separate the waters, separate the practice from the choreography, the priority of the accessory, the deep from the surface, the insignificant that divides us, as Portuguese, from the important that should mobilize us all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u209	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u210	We, for us, did not give up Portugal or the Portuguese. We, for us, leave no one behind. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u211	Mr Maló de Abreu, five Members have signed up to request clarifications. I would ask the honourable Member to tell the Bureau how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u212	Mr President, I want to respond first to a group of three and then to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u213	All right, that'll be it. You have the floor, then, for the first request for clarification, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maló de Abreu, first of all, I thank you for bringing this issue to us, which is of the greatest importance. The honourable Member went from channel to channel, from programme to programme, and did not stay in any, i.e., he did some sort of zapping in this intervention, and he realized why. In fact, he jumped from the History channel to other channels and finally concluded: « Do not count with the PSD. That is to say, some who govern, others who put forward proposals, do what they have to do because, as you automatically assumed, the PSD is not even there. Therefore, when it comes to finding solutions, do not count on the PSD, others who do. With regard to finding measures at the moment not only to combat the epidemic, but also to solve problems, such as the recovery of the activity that has been suspended, he said: « Make yourselves. » That is, the PSD does a zapping and automatically gets out of the program that is necessary. So I think it is important to bring to this debate what we think is necessary and, of course, to question the PSD about it. It is true that we are experiencing an increase in the epidemic in Portugal — the numbers are obvious — and it is true that, since March, the government should have prepared this moment, that everyone knew it would be hard and critical. Instead, he made a plan for autumn-winter, which, as the Left Block has already had the opportunity to say in the Assembly of the Republic, has no forecast of appeal, and has walked seven months without hiring professionals. It shouldn't have been like that! Indeed, we need to discuss solutions. from the part of the Left Block, the solutions are very clear: the strengthening of the National Health Service, of course; the courageous hiring of professionals to the National Health Service, already ; the increase of transfers to the institutions of the National Health Service, in order to recover activity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u215	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u216	I'm done with this, Mr. President. Now, on the PSD side, we have many doubts about what are the proposals that bring us. Will this be the case, sir? Or is it the tradition of PSD, to make the National Health Service worse? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u217	You now have the floor, also for a request for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u218	Mr. President, I welcome Mr. Maló de Abreu on the subject, which is of the greatest importance. I would like to focus on more than daily matters, more than the short term, which has to do with the recently known news about the pressure that exists in several SNS hospitals, about the increase in cases of COVID-19, particularly in hospitalizations. We know that the hospital of São João cancelled surgeries and moved to a higher level of contingency, which will have effects on the scheduled surgical activity. Furthermore, Dr. Fernando Araújo, who is President of the Board of Directors of Saint John and former Secretary of State of a Socialist Government, admitted that professionals are, and I quote, "very concerned about the evolution of the situation, depending on the growth of the number of cases" and explained that there are professionals infected and in quarantine and that all this will have a decisive impact on the admission. at the same time, we also know that the Hospital de São José, the Beatriz Ángelo Hospital and the Amadora-Sintra hospital are under the same circumstances of pressure and inability to respond. Today, we also know that the current bastonary of the Order of Physicians and others prior to it have joined in a single voice to express, on the one hand, an effective thanks to the SNS professionals for their resilience and self-denial and to say, on the other hand, that the government seems not to have learned "the lesson of the past months" — I am quoting, not my words — that the SNS is again prepared for a serious disruption and will suffer from the pressure of the search it has in its hands, that the previous problems of the SNS are unheard and that, for that reason, what moves Mrs. Bastonaires and the Bastonarias in this letter is the anguish of those who know the patients by name and know that the SNS, as it is, alone, cannot help them. Therefore, in view of this scenario, and in view of the successive warnings we have made in this House, this is the question I leave to you: in the opinion of the honourable Member, is it better to forward non-COVID patients to waiting lists and COVID patients to tents at the hospital door?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u219	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u220	I will finish, Mr. President. Or is it better to take advantage of the installed capacity that the government denies exists, constantly pretending that there is no and leaving people in a situation of total disability in access to health care?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u222	Which of these ways, or any other that may exist, is, in the PSD's view, the best? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u223	For the last request for clarification of this first group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maló de Abreu, first of all I welcome you on the subject you have brought, but I would ask you to clarify the positions of the party that you represent on two very specific issues. The honourable Member brought up the question of public health policies and their various problems, and we would like to talk specifically about two of them, starting with the problems associated with medical boards, which will also be discussed in this House on Friday. Given the reality of many Portuguese people who have no access to the multi-use attestation and who have been waiting for more than eight months, some up to a year ago—we are talking about people who had no prior access to this certificate and who are asking for it for the first time—and knowing from the very outset, the unacceptable constraints that this causes in the lives of these people, we would like to know whether the Democratic Social Party agrees with the solution that the NAP presents. In a very short way, this solution is to create a standardized list to automate access and integrate a mental health professional into these medical boards. I would like to take the time to ask you a question on another subject, which is related to a proposal coming from this State budget, concerning the integration of doctors enrolled in the SNS, ensuring their pension and adding 75% to it, according to the category in which these doctors were found. Given the structural problem of the lack of investment in a rejuvenation strategy of this class and the problem that we will be going to be 5 or 10 years old with the retirement of other professionals, and recognizing the NAP that professionals with many years of service have clearly taken a lot of knowledge, but that, due to their age, they are also in the risk group, we would like to know what the PSD position in relation to this measure is at the bottom. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u225	You have the floor to reply to this first group of requests for clarification, Mr António Maló de Abreu.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u226	Mr President, I would naturally like to thank you for your questions. Mr Moisés Ferreira, Ana Rita Bessa and Bebiana Cunha, to whom I will try to respond as concisely as possible. With regard to Mr Moisés Ferreira, I have to tell you that I did indeed make a sort of zapping, although I did not go as far as I would like, because I tried to trace the catastrophic scenario of the health situation in Portugal. I have tried to draw, to show, as the situation is, that it is too serious for us to remain silent and, at least, to remain still. So I've dealt with facts, I haven't dealt with choreography, as I said, and I haven't talked about talking, I've announced concrete facts. The facts are these and we have talked several times about this: the millions of presence consultations that were postponed, the million consultations that were postponed in hospitals, the 100,000 surgeries that were not performed and that were scheduled, the 17 million diagnostic and therapeutic tests that were not performed. There are objective data, they are not invented data. We know what the situation is and we need to act! When you say that the PSD did not make proposals, I wanted to remind you of at least two concrete moments. First, in January, the PSD asked the government to present an emergency plan as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u227	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u228	...and the government only presented it in March. We're in a continuous emergency! We must act quickly and what we have seen from this government is that it does not act as quickly as necessary as the situation requires. Then, long before what happened in the homes, the dramatic situation of the homes, the PSD drew attention and said that it was necessary to act, it was necessary to have a contingency plan for the homes and what we saw, what happened, what is happening and what is going to continue to happen is that this government has no hand in the situation, it has lost the hand of the situation. The tradition, eventually, is not what it was. The PSD first understands that more needs to be invested in the National Health Service. For us, the National Health Service is the center. It's the center! But we also say, without regret, without any ideological problem, that, at this moment — and much more at this time — it is necessary to appeal to the cooperation of the social system and the private system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u229	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u230	... without fear, without ideological questions at the start, and, therefore, there is, eventually, something that differs from us, which is the absolute need to give answer. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u231	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u232	Mr President, then I will possibly take advantage of the reply to the next group of requests for clarification to respond to the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u233	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Lima.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Maló de Abreu, when he began his political statement, it seemed to me that he was going to create space for a critical but positive intervention. However, he quickly declined: he criticized, criticized, criticized. In fact, as I said earlier, he tried to portray, in a catastrophic way, as the SNS is. Well, Mr President, in his speech he did not point to an idea, he did not point to a path, he did not point to a measure, he did not point to a solution. What does the PSD want for this debate, Mr? I welcome the fact that, in this speech, this issue is so important to debate, but we cannot come here merely to destroy, destroy and destroy. We live in atypical moments, difficult times, with new and unknown situations for most professionals, but we have health professionals, a government and a SNS who are at the time to respond to the Portuguese and users of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, let me remind you that in the State budget for 2020, before the pandemic situation, there was an increase of EUR 900 million and that in the Supplementary budget we had a reinforcement of EUR 500 million to deal with the answers needed for COVID-19. All this to deal with the needs of the Portuguese. Mr. Deputy should know. The Portuguese know - in this case, the Portuguese know well what this government has done and what it intends to do in the proposal for a State Budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u236	But we need to be able to meet the challenges, we need to vote on the State budget proposal and I want to see what the PSD will do to this proposal with so much talk. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr President, I would like to ask you a very simple question: since I have said nothing about proposals to deal with the situation in which we live, what would the PSD do if it were in the government in such a complex situation with regard to the National Health Service, since no one knows your proposals? Say it here, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u237	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u238	Mr President, first of all I welcome Mr António Maló de Abreu. Mr President, on the initial part of your speech, she is only responsible for you and no one else,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u239	To him and the PSD Parliamentary Group!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u240	...be with you what you said. What really matters, which is to discuss health issues, what really matters, what is to take the measures to strengthen the National Health Service, to strengthen its capacity with more means and more professionals, not only to respond to patients with the COVID-19 disease but also to recover all that has to be done and to continue to accompany all the users and all the patients in our country, Mr. Depute, I have to say that in May, the CFP brought to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for an emergency plan to the National Health Service. See what this proposal had: hiring workers; converting work contracts; paying supplement to value those who are in essential services; valuing workers of the National Health Service; strengthening occupational health services; strengthening public health teams; assigning doctors and family nurses and applying exceptional and transitional measures to ensure that all users had medical and family nurses; strengthening means for mental health; strengthening the number of acute beds, intensive care, continuous and palliative care; strengthening diagnostic and therapeutic capacity. Do you know why we brought this proposal? We have brought it because we know that it is with more means that the National Health Service can have the ability to treat all those who now have the COVID disease and also treat all Portuguese who continue to have all the other diseases that continue to exist. And what did the PSD do with a concrete proposal to solve concrete problems? He voted against. He voted against! That was the PSD emergency! When we were aware that, as the winter period approaches, most likely, the situation could worsen, the PSD, which is here criticising, comes here to contribute to the descredibilization of the National Health Service, when taking concrete steps for its resolution, set itself out. I shall conclude by saying something that is also important to mention: we have not been confronted with two hypotheses, i.e., or everything remains in the same, or the provision of care for private groups is transferred. Don't! These aren't the hypotheses we have on the table. We recognize that the PSD and the CDS, at the time they ruled, also said that it was all inevitable, but the truth is that it was possible to recover income and it was possible to recover rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u241	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u242	What is needed right now is the path that the PCP proposed here: the strengthening of the National Health Service, rather than channeling resources for private groups to continue to profit at the expense of the disease and at the cost of Portuguese health. What is needed is to have a National Health Service with more means and that is why the PCP is going to hit. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u243	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr António Maló de Abreu has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u244	Mr President, I would like to thank Members Joana Lima and Paula Santos for their questions. Starting with Mrs Joana Lima, I would like to say that we did not criticise ourselves, based on facts, and against facts there is no argument, indeed! We did not say in times that there was a very low probability of the virus reaching Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u246	We were not the ones who said that the World Health Organization was exaggerating a little bit. [[PSD applause.]] It wasn't us who said masks give a false sense of security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u247	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u248	We did not say that the pandemic could be an opportunity for Portuguese agriculture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u249	We didn't say anything about this! We know who said it and, therefore, what we brought here today was concrete facts. We made the warnings in our own time. We are not government, we have and assume the responsibility of opposition constructively, but do not abdicate from criticism, we do not abdicate from confronting you, who support the government, do not abdicate from confronting the government with its successive failures and do not abdicate from reporting what is happening in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u251	It's not to value the private, it's wrong who you're talking to. We greatly appreciate the National Health Service, which, too, I will repeat, is at the heart of health policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u252	I would have approved our proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u253	This is unquestionable for us! What we think is that, especially at this moment, it is essential to make an appeal to all of us to work together. All Portuguese, all health subsystems should collaborate. The situation is too serious, it is too difficult, people are dying, people are suffering and, therefore, there is no strike giving anyone, there is no time to wait for anyone. We all need to work together! I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mrs Bebiana Cunha, telling her that what is going on with the medical boards is absolutely regrettable. There are Portuguese waiting a year ago! [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] The Ombudsman spoke even in two years of waiting for a medical board. It can't be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u255	There are people who depend on this medical board. There are Portuguese people who, to survive, to eat, need this medical board made and cannot wait one or two years to be seen by the medical board. Finally, in reply to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to say that we agree: there are no two paths, a way for COVID patients and a way for non-COVID patients, there is a way for all patients. In fact, one of the major mistakes was to completely isolate non-COVID patients and we will reach this tragic situation, in which people are dying because they are not being treated, because they are afraid of going to hospitals. I know reality! There are three countries in one country: the official country, which is yours; the informal country, which sometimes appears in newspapers; and the royal country from whom you went to hospitals, as Mrs. Deputy went with us to various hospitals and saw the ranks in the emergencies, in the external consultation, saw people in the rain, sitting on the floor. What happens in Portuguese hospitals is a shame! We're ashamed of what's going on in the Portuguese hospitals right now! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u256	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u257	Therefore, we are clear, and to be clear is to say that we must all be together and united in the fight against the terrible pandemic that we live at this time. We do not abdicate our responsibilities, do not abdicate VV. Ex. of yours! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u258	For an intervention under Article 77 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic have the floor Mr António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The United States of America reduced its military contingent in 2015 at the Lajes Base, a situation which led the Regional Government to quickly sign a set of promises that have not been fulfilled in the last 10 years and to make others, dividing responsibility with the Republic. And so it was born and was built the Economic Revitalization Plan of the Third Island, the so-called PREIT. This plan was sent to the Government of the Republic with a payment amount of more than EUR 300 million. the first time I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this document, he said "value zero". It was a very enlightening answer to your knowledge and interest in supporting the Third Island. This plan includes the decontamination of the soils and aquifers of the Praia da Vitoria, which, after much political pressure, began there. However, what is done and what is lacking is not known. There is no transparency and the desired information, because at this time we would have to know the date of completion of the work, the financial amounts involved, who will pay and the places that have not yet been involved. It is so important that this Government attaches to the decontamination that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action recently went to the Third and said that he did not make statements on this matter — attention, I speak to the Minister for the Environment! — and the Regional Government remained silent, without requirement, without claim and without protest. Decontamination has always been a process to which the government has fled, rejecting responsibilities and not wanting to talk about it. It is still a difficult birth, the necessary political attention. There was neither any willingness nor interest in rapid decontamination. The Lajes Base is, above all, a matter of state, which the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government must have on the political agenda. For five years the PS governments — always led by the same and accompanied by the same Foreign Minister — have been promising new valences for the Lajes Base, and nothing has happened. The two governments do not understand each other and this undermines the progress of any negotiation. For example, U.S. diplomats in Portugal have been saying that the possible revision of the Lajes Base Agreement should be based on Portugal's initiative. However, the Government of the Republic does not want to revise the agreement and the Regional Government either. What are we staying on? I mean, we're losing before we sit at the negotiating table. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that the Azores can benefit in the area of geostrategy, particularly in the development of local employment and in the desired and essential process of internationalising the regional economy. We are convinced that, apart from the evidence of circumstances and of 'time opportunities', we will have to be able to act in the Azores in the construction of a strategic regional concept that provides a guideline. Our geographical position must constitute autonomous affirmation in the European and international context, a situation which should be a cause for pride in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Another issue that matters to speak today concerns the Port of Praia da Vitória. Sad Porto, in the mouth and hand of the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government of the Azores, who have promised a lot, have spoken a lot and have done nothing and this month announced their death. The PREIT provided EUR 77 million for the investment of the Government of the Republic in the installation of LNG (liquefied natural gas) for the supply of ships, but not one cent was spent. The so-called « joint declaration », signed between the two governments on 30 April 2016, took the candidature of the « Juncker plan », but no role was sent. This month, the National Strategy for the Sea 2021 - 2030 was announced, but there was no reference to the Port of Praia da Vitoria. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a third issue that cannot go without the proper indignation and protest of this House. It is inconceivable, in the view of the exemption from public service, that the Tax Authority sends an e-mail to the Azorians informing about the possibility of early voting, an e-mail signed by the Regional Government, saying: « The future of the Azores is in their hands. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Protests from PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues.]] People expect to receive from the Tax Authority messages linked to tax secrecy, in direct communication with taxpayers and not with voters. The relationship with the elector must be the responsibility of the National Elections Commission. In fact, it is no longer the first time that the data of the Azorians are misused by public entities. Three years ago, personal information of 231,000 users of the Regional Office for the Health of the Azores was improperly published on the website of the Regional Administration of Health of Évora. To date, the PS Government has not investigated or explained this seriousness. The PS uses all means to campaign, but you need to realize that it's not all and they're owners of everything. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u262	Mr António Ventura, the Bureau records the registration of Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party to request clarifications. You have the floor for this, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u263	Mr President, Mr António Ventura, came here to say that the Government of the Republic and the Government of the Azores do not carry out and do not understand themselves, but these two governments have implemented and guaranteed a set of fundamental measures for the Azores over recent years. We are talking about the full compliance of the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions, of the Azores not being discriminated against in access to medical care provided on the continent, of the inter-air links have become shared by the Government of the Republic or even of the damage of Hurricane Lourenço have been shared by 85 %, when we have passed through other situations in which we have been sent to the bank. We are also talking about the 100 % increase in the European Azores fund package and a strong bet on international projects such as the AIR Center ( Atlantic International Research Center ), the first laboratory of the European Space Agency, the National Space Surveillance and Tracking Operations Centre, the creation of the space port in Santa Maria, the Atlantic Observatory or the Atlantic Defense Centre. As part of the dossier by the Lajes Base, which he referred to and which is essential for our island, he forgot that fundamental aid was guaranteed to the municipal chamber with a view to strengthening the supply of water in the municipality and the control and monitoring of water quality, he forgot that it had already been awarded the removal of contaminated land from the Cabrito area, he forgot that a Special Social Support Programme for the Third Island was approved, he forgot that support for the legalization of the Santa Rita neighborhood, which houses about 100 families, he forgot that a low-cost operation of Ryanair, which was fundamental to the development of tourism on our island, forgot that the meteorological radar was installed in Santa Barbara and forgot that it was certified the Lajes airport. I could continue a long list of realisations—yes, realisations—...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u264	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u265	... that, unfortunately, we do not attend the PSD/CDS governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u266	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u267	It is not all done, but we will continue to ensure a set of fundamental measures for our region, as we have done so far. The honourable Member also said that the Government of the Republic abandoned the Port of Praia da Vitória, which replaced it by the Port of Sines, but, still yesterday, the Minister of Infrastructure was categorical in rejecting this idea. My question, Mr President, is to know how it explains that the strategic programme of the SDP by 2030 proposes the increase of the capacity of the Port of Sines and does not make a single reference to the Port of Praia da Vitoria. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u268	Would you like to conclude, Member of Parliament, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u269	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. Mr President, how do you explain that on 120 pages — 120 pages! — this PSD strategic document...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u270	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u271	Mr. President, I'm really going to finish. Mr President, how do you explain that on 120 pages of this PSD strategic document there is only one shy and unique reference to the Azores? How do you explain that this document does not address one of the issues you have raised here?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u272	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u273	My question, Mr, is this: you do not think it would be interesting to start with your own party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u274	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u275	... ensuring that, in a strategic document of this nature, the Azores are effectively represented? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u276	You have the floor to answer Mr António Ventura, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Lara Martinho, I find it fabulous and extraordinary that there are so many measures and, after all, the Azores are the region of the country where there are more beneficiaries of RSI (social income) with 6 % of the population. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Pedrosa.]] I find it extraordinary and fabulous that, with so many measures, the Azores region has one third of the population at risk of poverty, the highest numbers in Portugal. I find it extraordinary and wonderful that, with so many measures, we have, for example, an early school dropout rate of 27 % in the Azores in 2019, while the national average is 10 %. So something's failing. Something is failing, with so many measures, and that means that policies are not aimed at the fundamental, which are people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u278	The people of the Azores are poorer! With so many measures and more measures and plans, people are poor. This means that something fails, governance in the Azores fails and governance in the Republic fails. You haven't started ruling yesterday, you've been ruling since the end of 2015! Therefore, the culprit for the state of the region and the state of the Azorians, the guilty for the poverty and bankruptcy of the companies is the PS government, either there or here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u279	Intervention is also followed under Article 77 ( 2 ). the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, of Mrs Isabel Rodrigues, of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u280	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are less than two weeks away from holding elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. An electoral act is always a relevant moment in our democratic life. This will be carried out in a time of difficulty and demand, in view of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the uncertainty as to the future behavior of the virus. Over the past few weeks, we have also seen in this House — even now — statements that seek to circumvent the results of the Socialist Party's governance in the Azores and to undermine cooperation between the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u282	In the Azores, this is the time of the illustrious visitors, who, in the corruption of visits and declarations to the media, do not even try to disguise their deep ignorance about the regional reality, and of course, some of us know the disadvantage that they attribute to the Azorian voters. We heard those who were welcome from the beginnings of constitutional autonomy, when the region, for centuries voted to abandon and surrender itself,... [[PSD member António Ventura's laughs.]] ...it was launched in the construction—and well! — basic infrastructure, of which it has never been equipped. If for some it is a manifest ignorance or superficial analysis of some indicators, for others it is only a strategy for political gains. It doesn't matter if it's true or false, the important thing is that media and social networks reproduce. So let's go to the facts. In 2019, the Azores recorded the highest GDP value in all their history, and in the second quarter of 2020, in full pandemic, the region's unemployment rate was 4, 9 % lower than the national average. [[PSD member Protests António Ventura.]] I know someone's coming soon to say it's occupational programs. Deceive yourself! The truth is that we have recorded a 49 % decrease in the number of steel workers enrolled in socio-professional integration programmes compared to July 2016. We have less unemployment and the number of registered employment programmes has been halved. In education, where there are always those who insist on seeing the tree and not the forest, we took all the children to school, to daycare, to preschool—public! — and compulsory education No 12. the year, on all islands of the region. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Over the past 10 years, with the governance of the Socialist Party, the rate of withdrawal has decreased by 80 % and the completion rate of secondary education has increased by 9 %, 5 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u283	Over the past four years, we have invested heavily in qualification, ensuring that about 10 000 steel workers improve their employability. Of course, we would like to move forward at an even faster pace, particularly with regard to the early school dropout rate, where there is certainly a lot more work to do. We are not satisfied, and therefore we have a regional strategy to combat poverty, which is where we have been, in fact, pioneers. But the missing path cannot erase the path we have already traveled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the legislation now ending, we reached about 700 social responses, supporting children, families, the elderly, spread over our nine islands, and increased their funding by 16%. We also talk about health: the governments led by Vasco Cordeiro have increased the number of users with a family doctor by about 30%. In 2019, more than 150 000 medical consultations and more 219 000 diagnostic and therapeutic acts were conducted than in 2016. Time is scarce to talk about what we have done in agriculture, fisheries, tourism, always under the hat of protection of the environment and ecosystems, fully assuming responsibility for leaving future generations a heritage that guarantees them, as we do, well-being and subsistence. During the pandemic, and similar to what we had done before, when in 2012 Vasco Cordeiro took on the government presidency for the first time, we did not lower our arms or surrender. at a time when there were little protection and testing resources, we were not always understood in the need to safeguard a reality consisting of nine islands, separated by a vast sea, whose regional health system, with three hospitals on three islands and health centers on the other, has an important pillar in the referral networks of patients, under the penalty of their inefficiency, ineffectiveness and unsustainability. We fought for the Azorians and the Azorians, launching specific measures to support businesses, employment and individual entrepreneurs. at the end of the Legislature, our public debt represents 44% of the region's GDP, i.e. less than half of Madeira's debt and just over one third of Portugal's debt. As much as it costs those for whom the worst, this is the region that goes to the elections next October 25. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u284	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u285	I conclude now, Mr President. This is a region where international investors trust, as recently seen with the demand six times higher than the offer in a bond issue, which led to a fixed interest rate that has the lowest value that has so far been registered in the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u286	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u287	I conclude now, Mr President. This is a region that in the OP ( Operational Programme) Azores 2020, with close to 2000 approved candidatures and 1, 4 billion eligible global investment, has already executed more than 900 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u288	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u289	I'm done now, Mr. President. I appeal to your understanding. This is a region where international institutions rely on the management of the maritime space adjacent to the archipelago as a result of the recognition by the OSPAR ( Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Northeast Atlantic ) of 17 marine protected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u290	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, Your Excellency...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u291	As our hymn says, for the punishment of the great Natália Correia, «The Azores are our certainty to trace the glory of a people». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u292	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, you have two requests for clarification. Please inform the Bureau as you wish to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u293	Mr President, I would like to respond to the two requests for clarification together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u294	All right. So the first request for clarification lies with Mr. Paulo Moniz of the PSD. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues, the exercise of political activity must correspond to a coherent attitude. V. Exa, not yet a week ago, accused me of having made an election campaign. After hearing today, I conclude exactly that what you did was an election campaign, you know why the Socialist Party of the Azores greatly urged you to do so. [[PS deputy Isabel Rodrigues' laughs.]] But these coherence accounts remain with you and with the Azorians.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u296	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u297	All the numbers that tortured us to make us believe in the Azores paradise have a serious problem: they're actually horrifying.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u298	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u299	He knows that reality is like cotton, he doesn't cheat. Therefore, the honourable Member may try to torture the numbers she wants because the harsh and cruel reality of the difficulties of the Azorians is not beyond what she has tried to make us believe. Let me also tell you that I have personal and institutional esteem for you and it costs me sincerely to see you, in the few times you used the word in this House, vote against the Azores and defend the Socialist Party. Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, I am sorry because the Azorians, when they gave him the vote, entrusted him with the firm expectation that he would defend them and not the Socialist Party. I bring the Azorians permanently, voting against the Azorians in this Chamber! Mrs. Deputy, again voting against the Azores? Oh, my God! It's too bad and it's too bad that I can see that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u300	You have the floor, for a second request for clarification, Mrs Alma Rivera of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, I listened carefully to Mrs Isabel Rodrigues, but also Mrs Lara Martinho, on the list of the achievements of the Socialist Party Government in the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Government of the Republic. It failed to speak of non-concreteizations, it failed to speak of all that was to be done, starting with the fact that the Socialist Party's Government yesterday presented a Budget without having achieved one of the commitments it had with the people of Pico, particularly with the former workers of Cofaco. Even today, these workers have not guaranteed any income. You've failed a lot! But it also failed in the rehabilitation of the Horta Support Chain, in the plan to remodel the regional courts, in the establishment of the second search and rescue team. All of this was commitments and proposals approved in the State budget for 2020. It also failed because it did not carry out intervention at Horta airport, soil decontamination on the third island, the plan of economic revitalization of the third island, the natural gas warehouse on the third island. It fails because it does not take measures to strengthen the control of our sea. Defending the Azores is a long way from defending fishing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u302	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u303	And fishing is not defended! The Government of the Socialist Party fails because it will not supply the human resources in the various public services, such as the security forces, and which, for example, condition the level of training of the Azorians. As here, the country and the Azorians need to be fulfilled with the word given and that is a fundamental element. The Azores, like the country, need a response to their problems and a change in structural policies. It is necessary to finally choose what interests weigh more. For us, CDU, they weigh more the interests of the people, Azorian and Portuguese. We're waiting to see what posture they're holding. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u304	You have the floor to answer, Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin by speaking to Mr Paulo Moniz. Mr President, I would like to say to you that I refer to the estimate, which always precedes some form of personal attack.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u306	Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, I'm sorry, but you have to wear a mask.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u307	You're right, Mr. President. I apologize to the House and Mr. President. Mr. Paulo Moniz, let's go. I did not vote against the Azores, I voted against a law which he proposed here, saying that the following week would solve a problem of the Azores but would only enter into force in January 2021. Let's be honest! [[All right!]] [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u308	The second question is on the preparatory debate of the European Council. We did not know what the PSD was thinking about climate change and the role of Europe, about Europe's relations with China, with the United Kingdom, after Brexit, with Africa, because you took advantage of the preparation of a debate, which had a closed agenda, effectively to implement this debate. I'm keeping it in its entirety. Mr President, I note that there is a lack of arguments against the indicators I have given. All that remains to be done is to attack the way in which my term of office of deputy is carried out. We're talking, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Alma Rivera, the State Budget is a process that has now begun. What has previously entered the Assembly of the Republic is a document which, contrary to what happened, for example with the PSD governments, fully complies with the Finance Act of the Autonomous Regions, taking into account a set of priority investments for the region, such as the submarine cables and the meteorological radar network, to name only two. All this serves to say that this is a process which is now beginning, and I am convinced that, in the case you referred to Cofaco, having already passed a law in the Assembly of the Republic and having a set of other commitments which the Government has taken and whose implementation has already begun, it will not have to be everything in the State budget, in accordance with the law, because it will certainly be in the forecast of its expenditure. Still, Mrs Deputy, I think it's too early to make the evaluation you did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u309	Also under Article 77 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, have the floor to make an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country will receive, this year, in the next year or somewhere during the legislature, a value never seen before in Portugal, which will be about EUR 15 billion. Never in the history of our country has it been so important that transparency is so effective. It is precisely at this moment, when transparency is most necessary, that the country should sink into an amalgam of legislative confusions in this area. The relaxation of public procurement rules, which will allow for direct adjustments and flexible rules for all and for those who want to give or sell, shows the dangerous path that we are following today. The reduction in the Court of Auditors' visas for many of the public works that will start, presented as public investment, convey one of the most insecure feelings of our public life. But also — why don't you say so today here in this House? — the replacement of directors of the Judicial Police by elements coming from the Ministry of Justice should, at least, merit the attention of this House in the context of the fight against crime. Who are they? Where did they come from? Why are the directors of the Judiciary Police replaced at a time when so much money will arrive in Portugal? The departure of the President of the Court of Auditors, presented as something natural, binding on the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, when, a few months earlier, they had renewed the General Inspection of Internal Administration, shows that the criterion has nothing to do with politics, nothing has to do with agreements with the President of the Republic. The criterion has to do with this: whoever messes with the PS, leads, and whoever messes with the government, goes home. This has been the criterion and this will continue to be the rule, while this House, which is the only one who can do so, does not send below this authoritarian initiative of Antonio Costa. The European Public Prosecutor's Office was dismissed from a judge who had been first and was not led but, yes, removed by another judge who was second. And the country assists, impatience, as if it were all normal. It is as if the country no longer cares, beyond the cameras and headlines, with what it does and with what it says. But out there, people continue to see and feel that every step we take is a new step towards the principle of corruption that we are going to be pointing out to the government in six months, while the left is going to turn our eyes, some right will be ashamed, and the Portuguese will say: « more of the same», « the same as ever», «we were here and we did not warn». It is the same path we have seen in 2009, in 2011, in 2001, but we have not learned that it is a path that we have to catch up. When we look at this Budget, we realize that those who said they were going to do the great struggle for transparency now do nothing in this Budget. And there is no need for the House to talk about the duplication of the expenses of the President of the Republic, and for the President of the Republic to come to deny this same duplication at night, just look at the Budget and see that there is no reinforcement for those who fight for transparency and against corruption. That is the undeserving truth that Portugal has to face! There is not a single penny more for those who fight this dangerous phenomenon, so often announced here, that is corruption. Portugal goes down on the European ranking of transparency, we go down on all the rankings of corruption and, nevertheless, our Budget is half, which is the same as saying that half zero is equal to zero. In view of this, the President of the Republic looks to the side and says that nothing has to do with what is happening and some opposition prefers not to comment. in a word,'Venezuelisation' — that is what is happening in Portugal! While some laugh and think it might be a possible way, while others think it's all right, one day, a few months from now, we're going to be in the newspapers commenting on what we could have avoided and not avoided. No one has any doubts: Antonio Costa is not going to stay. More month, less month, this government will fall, because there is not one socialist government, in the history of the country, which, in crisis, has endured more than a year and a half. Those who think that Antonio Costa will follow to the end, with crisis or without crisis, with unemployment or without unemployment, are disengaged, because it will not happen! As they said today, in this bench, six months from now, they will be demanding responsibilities not to those who have opposed themselves, but to those who have made it possible for the State Budget. Some will say, as always: “We had no alternative, we couldn’t do anything! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have an alternative, power is in our hands, because it is in the hands of those who have chosen us, to make a barrier to the dangerous path that we are following in Portugal. As we discuss whether Antonio Costa is moving forward or not, the country is plunged into an ever-increasing amalgam of lack of transparency. The CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) are in the eyes of everyone, the money distributed by the authorities will be 'a check whether you are avid' to Portugal in the coming months, when we have a local election just over a year. If we do not regret this path, now we will regret it in a few months, for not having done so: some will regret not having criticized, others will regret not acting. in this, the Socialist Party says no, that we have a compliance programme and a prevention programme, a strategy programme against lack of transparency and corruption, when we know today that there is indeed a great novelty in the State budget: the PS government wants to charge 58 times more traffic fines than it took last year. Excellent! For a country that wants to move on the right path, that is to say to the police, they're going to get money in the middle class, they're going to get money from people, to keep supporting us, the biggest government we've ever had in history and the salaries of consultants who continue to work for the biggest government we've ever had in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” We need to increase the penalties for corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u311	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u312	I will finish, Mr. President. We need coercive measures to prevent companies from being able to compete when they are convicted in the first instance. [[Protests by PS MP Joana Sá Pereira.]] And we need the perpetual removal of public charges of people convicted of corruption. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: none of this is in this budget, none of it is in the Government Programme. As one friend of mine says, « now think».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u313	Only the tremors are missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u314	Mr. André Ventura, a Member of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group was appointed to request clarifications. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mr André Ventura and ask him, here, a very specific question, which has to do with the topic that the CDS brought to this House in political declaration, the European funds. We have heard here about the European funds, and tomorrow we will have the Prime Minister deliver a plan in Brussels which Parliament does not know and the honourable Member has spoken here about transparency. I ask you, on this subject, what you think about what should be the transparency of the relationship between the Government, Parliament and Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u316	You have the floor to answer, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u317	Mr President, thank you very much. In fact, European funds force us to rethink the way in which we are going to monitor and monitor this matter. He argued that he should be an independent entity, not a government entity, to take control of public funds and that that independent entity should report monthly to Parliament. That was the solution found in other countries and must be the solution that should guide us. Some say no, that the Court of Auditors will do its work, but we have all seen what happened to the President of the Court of Auditors. Others say that we should leave this issue to the Public Prosecutor, the same ones who prefer to leave the processes running for tens of years, until we have effective supervision. So there is only one solution to combat what can be the biggest fraud epidemic in Portugal in the coming years: it is to allow an independent entity to report only to Parliament, in view of the supervision of these European funds. Otherwise it will open the way for the misfortune, which we will be here to see from here to six months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u318	We have thus concluded the first point in our agenda, political declarations, and we have already made progress with the presence of the Government that the Bureau takes advantage of welcoming, to the second point of our agenda, the debate, with the participation of the Government, on the state of the Union, as provided for in Article 4 ( 1 ( c ). the Act on the Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation, by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union construction process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ), and on the general lines of the priorities of the future Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. To open the debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The statement of the state of the Union, delivered by the President of the European Commission, as well as the letter of intent directed by the President and the Vice-President of the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Presidency of the Council, are very important documents because, in anticipation of the European Commission's 2021 programme of work, they show the programmatic coherence that exists between the European institutions and that exists between the purposes and the action programme of the European Commission and the purposes and programme of action of the Presidency of the Council. Equally important is the fact that the programme of the trio of presidencies, formed by Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, is entirely clear and precise in the major objectives and tasks of this trio of presidencies, in the second half of 2020 and in the first and second half of 2021. I now summarize this programme in the Assembly of the Republic, saying that it is a programme of absolute priority to Europe's economic and social recovery, according to the priorities of our European strategic agenda — digital transition, climate action, Europe's resilience and strategic autonomy — with the sense of urgency that is indispensable. in this framework, the added value of the Portuguese Presidency is also meridianly clear: - it is to focus on social Europe, - it is to show that Europe will only be able to overcome the challenge of dual transition - energy / climate and digital - using its social model, strengthening the European pillar of social rights. This added value of the Portuguese Presidency is also added to the fact that, from the point of view of the political timetable, the Portuguese Presidency also means the time to act. With the German Presidency, it was time to make very important decisions, with regard to financial and programmatic instruments to leverage European economic and social recovery; with the Portuguese Presidency, it would be necessary to implement these financial and programme instruments. So today we can say that two essential features will characterize our Presidency: one, the focus on social issues, and another, the time to act — we all act together, we Europeans. This explains the five priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union. The first priority is the priority given to the resilience of Europe, a resilience that must be understood in the two plans in which it makes sense: in terms of economic and social cohesion, on the one hand, and in terms of values, on the other. The next multiannual financial framework and recovery and resilience plans, leveraged by the recovery fund, are very important, but as important as they are the rule of law, the problem of the rule of law, civic participation in the definition of the European future, which is one of the objectives of the conference on the future of Europe and, of course, the very important aspects related to the new asylum and migration pact. So when we say that resilience is an absolute priority of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, we are talking about the economic resilience of Europe, but also about the consolidation of Europe as an area of solidarity and values. The second essential priority of our Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be the priority for social Europe. We will organize the European Social Summit at port on 7, 8 and 9 May. This social summit will consist of two major elements: a conference, bringing together European institutions, social partners and academic institutions, and the informal European Council on social issues. In addition to the logic, which I have already explained, this social summit will have very practical concerns: it will be a question of giving political impetus to the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the European pillar of social rights; it will therefore be addressed - it will - we will discuss together the best way to adopt the European regulatory framework for minimum wages, the European regulatory framework for minimum income, the new guarantee for childhood, the review of the guarantee for youth, the Green Paper on ageing, the strategies for transparency and equal pay, for gender equality and also the essential area of the 'European Union for Health' - I quote the President of the European Commission. The third key priority of our Presidency is green Europe, the European Ecological Pact, as well as the climate, but also the reform of the common agricultural policy, the European Year of Railway and the importance of electric mobility. The fourth priority is digital Europe. There too, once again, it is not just about economics. These include digital education, digital democracy, communications networks and data systems in Europe and opportunities, but also issues raised by the development of artificial intelligence. Finally, the fifth priority is global Europe. We will organize the meeting of European leaders with the Indian Prime Minister, because it is very important for us that Europe can interact with all major global actors: the United States and the United Kingdom, certainly, but also Africa, Latin America, China and India. These are the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union to be exercised by Portugal. There will certainly be questions we will have to face, but our logic is this: time to act, with the awareness that it is the European social model the best weapon we have to overcome the challenge of economic and social recovery, to overcome the challenge of digital transition and to overcome the challenge of climate action. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u320	We are now entering the stage of the speeches of this debate and the first parliamentary group to intervene is that of the Socialist Party, and the Bureau indicates that time will be divided into two interventions. For the first time, Mrs. Isabel Oneto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u321	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: The response to COVID-19, because of its devastating effects, has taken over the centrality of the debate on social policy, both between us and Europe and the rest of the world. We live a new paradigm that challenges everyone but also reveals, as a community, as decision makers, the best and worst of each: the ability we have at this time to face adversity without drifting away from the matrix that guides us, as a political community based on values that, even in times of crisis, we must preserve. And this is where everyone shows up. In Europe, there was a leader, humanist, combative, supportive, determined to leave no one behind. at the moment of a balance sheet of the state of the Union, it is also the countries that believe in a European Union which, above common rules, is a union of shared values. And that is what is at stake today in the negotiations on the financial framework that will allow each country in this adversity for itself, with its own identity and its historical journey, not only to resist and minimize the effects of the virus, but above all, to prepare for the future of the next generations. Among us too is the moment of revelation. As in the world, we were caught by a crisis that interrupted our path of economic growth and employment, of family stability, of consolidation of public accounts and, no less important, of regaining our credibility at European and international level. And this credibility, the COVID-19 didn't destroy it. If a decade ago we were crushed by the sovereign debt crisis today, our credibility for the first time allowed the issue of debt to eight years with a negative interest rate. In other words, the financial markets pay to lend money to the Portuguese State. Between us, we also had a time when we decided our financial framework for 2021, structurally linked to our commitment to not leaving anyone behind and preparing for the future, in line with the digital ecological agenda based on a European social model. Here too will be a moment of revelation of who can be, or not, at the time of historical responsibility. Neither in Europe, nor among us, is time for everything or nothing. The Government has demonstrated its capacity for dialogue, as an active actor in building a European consensus, around the recovery and resilience fund, and the Plurianual Financial Framework. We have contributed so that the Member States most affected by the crisis can start their recovery. Let us therefore hope that at the time when Portugal assumes the Presidency of the European Union, at a crucial time for the future of Europe, we will not be living with the twelfth and delaying our recovery. I shall finish by congratulating Mr President on the choice of the name of Mário Soares as patron of the new academic year of the College of Europe. As we discuss the future of Europe and our own future, it is good to always remember those who have opened our way. Surely, Mário Soares left us this legacy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u322	For an intervention, Mr Luís Capoulas Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u323	Mr President, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I would like to speak on the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, beginning with appreciation to note the primacy given to Parliament for the presentation of its general lines. Portugal is today a country respected in Europe and in the world for the universal values it defends and practices, and, of course, the intransigent defence of the rule of law, for the capacity to welcome refugees and immigrants, for the good and laborious integration of their communities based in other countries, which are so many, in so different latitudes. It is therefore good news for the citizens of Europe, the assumption by our country of the Presidency of the Council, at a time as problematic as expected. Perhaps, in more than three decades of European integration, the Portuguese priorities, which Mr Minister has just listed, have never been so aligned with the priorities of the European Union, already sufficiently confirmed in the Trio Programme of Presidency and the parliamentary troika. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and I am sure the overwhelming majority of this Parliament, shares and endorses the priorities of the future Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Of course, attention and commitment to economic recovery in a context of social emergency, inseparable from the strong commitment to the ecological and digital aspects, as well as to the Union's external agenda, special attention to relations with Africa, India, the transatlantic relationship and Latin America. We too, ladies and gentlemen, with the obvious coordination of the President-in-Office of the Republic, have been working with proper independence, but in collaboration with the Government, in preparing the programme for the parliamentary dimension of the Portuguese Presidency, which will involve a relevant set of initiatives. I would like to take this opportunity to bring this to the attention of the House and the Minister. We are therefore in addition to the initiatives led by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, to organize meetings of Presidents and Plenary of the COSAC ( Conference of Specialized Bodies in European Affairs ) in January and May respectively, and the Inter-Parliamentary Conference on Common Foreign and Security Policy ( CFSP ) and on Common Security and Defence Policy ( PCSD ) in which they will, in addition to the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs, play a special role in the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence in March. In addition to these initiatives, the Assembly of the Republic will participate, in cooperation with the European Parliament, in the Conference on Stability, Governance and Economic and Monetary Coordination, within the framework of the European Parliamentary Week in February, in Brussels, in partnership with the European Parliament, with particular involvement of the Parliamentary Committees on Budgets and Finance and Labour and Social Solidarity, and also at the meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Control Group ( CCPC ) of Europol, where Members of the Parliamentary Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees will also participate. We will also organize to highlight the Portuguese priority of relations with Africa, an EU/Africa interparliamentary meeting, with the participation of the European Parliament and the Parliament of the African Union. It is therefore up to me to congratulate you, Mr Minister, on your contribution, as a member of the Government, to the historic decisions of July, which, despite the uncertainties of the COVID-19 and the crisis resulting from it and the still unpredictable outcome of Brexit, have allowed the year 2021 to be seen as a time of hope and confidence in the future. We, Members of the Assembly of the Republic, will do everything possible to contribute to the success of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council and to honour the name of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u324	The next intervention is the PSD, whose time will be divided between Mrs Isabel Meireles and Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. First of all, Mrs. Isabel Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u325	Mr President, Mr Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Portugal assumes, for the fourth time, the rotating Presidency of Councils of the European Union and this Presidency is - it is particularly challenging for us, because it has in its hands - and allow me - the tea to express itself - several « hot potatoes». First of all, Brexit's first. Boris Johnson just asked for a new time extension. We are 78 days away, a scenario that was unthinkable throughout Europe, and the divorce between the United Kingdom and Brussels does not take place. The United Kingdom left the Union, but did not leave Europe and the European Union lost a country but did not lose its soul. The first question is therefore the following: does the Portuguese Presidency have a plan B in case of a deal? Secondly, there is another issue which we also consider to be « hot », which is on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027. As we know, negotiations are at an impasse, they are even suspended, and this budget, as we all know, is absolutely essential for national recovery and European recovery. I wonder if the Minister, in the case of this impasse, hopes that the Portuguese Presidency will be able to promote employment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, market unity. The third question, which I also consider 'hot', is related to European funds. There are at least 10 entities which control European funds — 10 entities! And does the government, which exhibits Simplex in Public Administration, fail to find a more effective and transparent model to control its execution, not only in terms of abuse, as possibly fraud, in order not to make mistakes from the past, because we cannot waste a single euro in this time of crisis? Mr Minister, one last question is on the fifth generation networks, 5G. John Bolton, former counsellor of Donald Trump, warned that Huawei is not a telecommunications company like the others, it is an arm of the Chinese state, and he even says that the survival of the West is concerned. Yesterday, the President of the Republic, in the inaugural session of the College of Europe, who had the privilege of attending, expressed some support for this theory. That is why the question I am asking is whether Portugal and Europe should remain dependent on China and the Chinese companies of 5G connectivity and expansion, because modern security and its manifestations, including cybersecurity, cannot be neglected, and that is also what we expect from the Portuguese Presidency of the Councils in this area for the coming year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u326	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u327	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: in this debate on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to leave some notes, although the time available does not allow me to extend. From now on, Mr Minister, I would like to begin by saying that the pandemic has provoked a global crisis and has posed challenges for both society and the economy at national and European level. And therefore urgent action is needed, but not only urgent, comprehensive action at European level, and as I also said at national level. in this context, the speech by the President of the European Commission on the state of the Union, the Trio Programme of the Presidency itself, of which Portugal is part, and also the German Presidency programme emphasises in this respect the importance that should be given to workers and their families, that is to say, the social Europe which the Minister also mentioned here, and that we reiterate that it should indeed be a priority of the European Union. I would also like to point out that the Trio Programme of the Presidency expresses a commitment, that of the European Union to protect people. And, in order to fulfil this commitment, the programme speaks precisely of the implementation and importance of the European pillar of social rights — and I take advantage of it to stress that the PSD also welcomes what the Minister has just mentioned here, saying that the European pillar of social rights is also a priority and will remain as such in the Portuguese Presidency. And, in fact, why is it important? Because with the implementation of this pillar we are able to guarantee equal opportunities for access to the labour market, fair working conditions, protection and social inclusions. Therefore, once again, we stress that it is essential that the Portuguese Government always have this pillar as one of the objectives and priorities. I also recall, Mr Minister, that the European pillar of social rights brings us to another reality, which is the reality of the constant changes that are taking place in the world of work. Of course, for new technologies, and of course also for aging. So there are added challenges that arise in the world of work...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u328	Madam Member, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u329	Finally, Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that it is necessary to realise, in fact, the availability of the Government to this issue, so we would like to hear a little more from the Government, which must also be a priority at this stage. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u330	The next intervention belongs to the Left Block, which will also divide the time it has. First of all, Mrs Fabíola Cardoso has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u331	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by congratulating the Minister, Mr. State Secretaries and Members present. The state of health of the European Union, three months from the Portuguese Presidency, is of concern. I am not only referring to numbers of people infected with the COVID-19, but to previous problems which, aggravated by the pandemic, fill the horizon with clouds. Despite President Ursula von der Leyen's optimistic speeches, the Union is experiencing the greatest ever crisis: unemployment and income breakdowns have gone off. Over the past six months, the number of registered employment centres in Portugal has increased by 30 %; poverty is gaining ground, affecting especially children and their access to education, including in Germany; climate emergency is still loose, despite the proposal adopted by the left in the European Parliament; the rule of law is returning to the East, on an unacceptable authoritarian drift, placing minorities and the European project itself in danger. At the borders of the Union are imprisoned or pushed back into hell thousands of human beings, in Lesbos, but also in the Quartel of Tavira or Custoia. We need another Europe, a Europe that dares, at this dramatic moment, not only to attack the symptoms but the very root of the problems, encouraging transformative alternatives to the system that has brought us here. Only then will we be able to rebuild Europe in the face of this calamity, for which the neoliberal policies of recent years have left us so poorly prepared. We need the transition to a society in which work and care are recognized as the basis of wealth creation. A change that must be ecological and digital, but essentially socially just and inclusive — a Europe for people and not for profit. Mr Minister, will the Portuguese Presidency encourage this change in the model of development that we need for a Europe for the next generations, giving priority to social issues on economics, environmental sustainability on immediate profit, people on large businesses or will we continue as we have so far, Minister? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u332	You have the floor, then, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u333	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Neither racial discrimination nor anti-racist struggle are a new phenomenon, but in recent times they have experienced a new political and media outlet. In September, on the occasion of the speech on the state of the nation, the President of the European Commission announced a European Union action plan against racism. Not being a perfect document, it represents a historic milestone in the recognition of structural racism as a European problem affecting millions of people throughout Europe. The measures presented include the recommendation for Member States to implement national action plans to combat racism, a proposal which the Left Block has already submitted and which has been approved in this House. The Government announced a national plan to combat racism and racial discrimination. I ask you, Minister: is that why the government is going to move from propaganda to action? Will you respond to the urgency and give true political centrality to the fight against racism? We can't wait anymore. I also ask you: will the government, in drawing up the national plan, promote the participation of anti-racist organisations, as the Commission recommends? Another question: in 2008 the Commission submitted Directive 426 to the Council for the application of the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of their religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation and these measures should be implemented outside the context of the labour market. This Directive has been successively blocked by a lack of consensus among Member States. Will the Government undertake to move forward with the adoption of this directive during the European Presidency? Another aspect I want to look at is the migration pact. This pact is an achievement, a missed opportunity. The measures presented reinforce Europe's strength and nothing on the mechanisms for creating safe migration routes. Once again, migrants, refugees or asylum seekers are at the door. They're criminalized, they've become a trap. With this proposal, the promise of a humanitarian approach fails, the narrative of solidarity fails and the reception fails.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u334	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u335	Is promoting safe routes for people fleeing from hunger and war one or more of the objectives of the Portuguese Presidency? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u336	For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister and Secretary of State : The central issue that should be highlighted in this debate is the approach we are taking today on the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, starting on 1 January. If, with regard to the so-called 'debate of the Union', we could already refer to the questions raised, from economic recovery to industrial, environmental, digital, etc. policies. — and we have done so - in a very recent debate in plenary session - already in turn the Portuguese Presidency, which is approaching broad steps, must be debated and faced with responsibility and the opportunity which it represents. For the CFP, the responsibility and opportunity which cannot be refused is that Portugal can contribute, in a serious, consequential, constructive and determined manner, by an alternative way for a Europe of cooperation, social progress and peace. That is the agenda which must prevail, from the Portuguese Presidency, and not the agendas, new or old, of inequality, of submission, of degradation of the rights of workers and peoples. It is essential that the debates, the proposals, the decisions before us have these priority references: a Europe based on the rise of labour and social rights; a Europe that respects the right to sovereign development and promotes mutually advantageous relations; a Europe of cooperation between sovereign and equal States in rights, which respects democracy; a Europe which promotes effective relations of friendship, cooperation, solidarity with all the peoples of the world; a Europe that respects the environment, a factor of harmonious development and preservation of nature; a Europe which respects and promotes culture, diversity and cultural exchange. At the time of this debate, it is impossible to be certain of the concrete situation in which we will meet on 1 January. But at this time they gain more strength and current PCP alerts, as soon as they are placed in relation to the Plurianual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund. It is necessary to defend and affirm principles and objectives that cannot be abandoned as the redistributive function of the Budget, to strengthen it mainly by means of the contributions of the States, on the basis of gross national income for cohesion and structural funds, in support of the Member States' development strategies, or, indeed, rejection of conditionalities either in the Budget or in the Recovery Fund, by denouncing the problem of the fund on which, or are loans that will be paid at the expense of new own resources that underlie the States, or are new rates that are imposed by not reverting to the State budgets, or by having budgetary cuts or even payments to the European Union, with the threats and traps that will once again appear on the principle of equality between States, attempting to impose, on various pretexts, for example, the "surpassion" of the unanimity rule by imposing, in fact, qualified majority. As regards the so-called'social Europe', it should be stressed that the policies of the European Union must not be a force group, as it was in the previous mandate of the Government, in order to prevent the rise of social rights, that social responses should be tailored to the needs of countries rather than a factor of degradation, of restriction on investment and development in public services and in the social functions of the State, lowering the fascia in the name of harmonisation. It is unacceptable that these are the "choices" they want to offer us. We are not doomed to these inevitability. So there is political courage to defend the national interest, but also, of course, the right of peoples to development! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the almost time-consuming compliance. We moved on to the CDS-PP intervention. To that end, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u339	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretarys : As Mr Minister has said, there is no doubt that there is an alignment between what was the discourse on the state of the Union — it has happened some time ago — and what is now the priorities of the various European institutions and even the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, which Mr Minister has defined as the 'time of action'. from our point of view, we have nothing against it. It happens that there's a lot to define before you act. Therefore, this idea that everything is defined and that everything will be defined during this period of the German Presidency and that, subsequently, in the Portuguese Presidency, it is only time to act, may be, but there is a lot of definition that needs to be made. The first question has to do with the response to the crisis, the funds and the budget. We still remember the time when Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister here called on us to support the rejection of the Plurianual Financial Framework. For the Plurianual Financial Framework currently on the table is worse than the one you asked us to reject. Therefore, we are still not convinced that the cyclical support provided by the Recovery Fund — at least in the medium term — is a bad multiannual financial framework. Therefore, this idea that there are conjunctural support for structural needs makes no sense. There are conjuncural support because there are also conjuncural needs. Therefore, the Recovery Fund responds to the needs that have already emerged after the negotiation of the Plurianual Financial Framework has begun, because, for what is structural, resources continue to fall short. Then there is the question of financing these measures. The Minister has not spoken, and he is no longer talking about own resources. Have you been able to define what the new own resources will be? Have you been able to define how the so-called 'European taxes' will exist, who will charge them, how will you charge them and who will pay them? It is that we are discussing here without a basis of support for what we are saying will be the priorities. How is this going to be financed? There's still no transparency. Then there is still a question of national transparency. We have heard that it is Portugal that defines its recovery programme — indeed, Mr Prime Minister has presented it today, not in Parliament, but in Gulbenkian. So I ask why it is important for the Portuguese to know the following: is it not true that this plan will be submitted to the approval of the European Commission? The answer is 'yes' or 'no'. Will you or will you not be subject to such approval? Second question for a 'yes' or 'no' answer is this: during the implementation of the plan, will there be or will there not be a set of goals for which Portugal will be responsible and the fulfilment of which the release of each tranche depends? Yes or no, Minister? Finally, there is the question of the rule of law. Mr Minister, there is a situation at the borders of the European Union which is totally unacceptable, which is what is happening in Belarus. Therefore, if the Portuguese Presidency wants to give priority to the values of the Union, including the rule of law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u340	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u341	... I wonder what the Portuguese Presidency will do about what is going on in Belarus and the possibility that during our presidency we will support the people of Belarus to get rid of what is a dictatorship that still exists in Europe. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u342	The next intervention is by Mr Nélson Basilio Silva, of the NAP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : In the debate last week of preparation for the European Council, the Government has listed some of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. One of these priorities was the fight against climate change, the objective which the NAP certainly applauds, which continues to be very empty. It is that, despite the various proclamation initiatives over the years, the truth is that the actions that the climate emergency requires fear do not become reality. But, Minister, let me alert you to the attack that the European Green Agreement is currently suffering. After last May, the European Commission announced 50 % cut-off of the use of pesticides and a significant reduction in the use of synthetic fertilizers, antibiotics and an exponential increase in organic agriculture, pressure groups led by Bayer, through the Copa-Cogeca lobby group, are putting tremendous pressure on this reduction to be diluted from 50 % to 25 %, minimizing the desired requirements. at the same time, they aim to reduce the bet on organic agriculture. Mr Minister, as you know, this plan of the European Green Agreement is vital for achieving carbon neutrality in 2050. And despite this goal already at risk, it will certainly agree with the NAP that we should not give up or relax. In view of the threat of pressure from certain sectors, in the pharmaceutical case, and also because in Portugal the NAP has often denounced the growth of these same sectors to the detriment of natural habitats and our common good — for example, with the continued use of glyphosate, both in agriculture and in urban cleaning — I ask you what will be the attitude of the Portuguese Presidency in the Council of the European Union on this matter. Will or will not the climate emergency be a really central factor in the mandate of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, effectively and effectively?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u344	For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u345	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs: On the eve of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council, the Greens leave some considerations, starting with the European Climate Law, which provides for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. But besides the goals, which are important, the means to achieve these goals are absolutely fundamental, because, without means, all the doctrine of a greener Europe ends up falling to the ground. And if, for the European Union, the market is worth more than the environment, as is evidenced by emissions trading, everything is said. Now, serious action on climate change requires the future of people and the planet to be above profit. On the other hand, the European Pillar of Social Rights, with the realization of the Social Summit for Employment and Growth, requires a strong impetus to give an urgent and decisive response to concrete problems, aggravated by the pandemic. What is needed is to learn from this crisis and regain people's lives. More than ever, the European Union has to show that it really cares about the human dimension. But, in our view, none of this can be achieved with the Plurianual Financial Framework 2021 - 2027 and the Recovery Fund, which make convergence and cohesion increasingly a mirage. Finally, I would like to leave two more brief notes, Minister. On refugees, under no circumstances can one fall into the hypocrisy of forgetting the causes and the time is to act and take the solidarity of the speeches to the ground. Only then will we be able to save lives. The second note relates to the agreement with Mercosur ( the Southern Common Market ), which, for the sake of transparency and democracy, imposes a public debate and Portugal must demand this legitimate debate, involving European citizens in matters crucial to our future, with implications for the sovereignty of States, the rights of peoples and the environment. What I am asking, Minister for Foreign Affairs, is whether the Portuguese Government is determined to make the Portuguese Presidency a framework in terms of positive influence for much of what it is failing in the European Union and, above all, not to deepen a model that does not serve Portugal, nor the generality of European peoples. [[Congrats from PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u346	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, it is clear that the European Union is living the most dramatic times in its history. And when the European Union lives the most dramatic times in its history, with unemployment, hunger and bankruptcy, there are parties who are concerned about the pact of migration and racism. When Europeans run out of money in their portfolio and go looking for jobs, when companies can't pay wages or debts, we're worried about the migration pact! It is good to know out there what are the priorities of many of these parties. [[PS and BE protests.]] I know you want a lot of migration and immigration, legal and illegal, everything you can have in the world. One day, they'll settle this with someone. Mr. Minister spoke about global actors and said the state would talk to everyone, especially the United States of America and China. But there is a Member in this House, Mr Costa Matos — I think he is not here today — who said he preferred the Chinese President to the American President. He agreed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should say here whether this is the position of the Socialist Party, which prefers the Chinese dictator to the democratic President of one of our largest international allies. And it was important for the Socialist Party to clarify which side it is from history and who it prefers to be. But it was also important, Mr Minister, that the Portuguese finally clarify the following: is it in favour of European taxes or not? It is that your Prime Minister comes here and, one day, says yes, in another, says no. It was important to understand whether the PS was in favour of European taxes or not. And it's also important to know who's gonna pay them and how they're gonna pay them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u348	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u349	I will finish, Mr. President. But because of the interruptions I was a victim while I was talking... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u350	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u351	I was a victim while I was talking! Mr. Minister, it was good if you would also clarify the Portuguese in relation to... [[Protests of PS Members.]] Calm down! They're talking too loud.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u352	Sir, I would like to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u353	It was good for Mr. Minister to clarify the Portuguese in relation to Mozambique. We support everything and something else, we talk about Syria, Morocco and all the places where immigration comes from which we often do not care about anything. Will we or will we not support Mozambique in the fight against terrorism, at one of the most difficult times in its history, in Cape Delgado?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u354	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u355	Are we going to have the courage to do and Portugal will or will not honor your story by supporting Mozambique? That's what we'd like to hear today say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u356	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u357	Mr President, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, believes that the Portuguese Presidency of the Council will have good results because Portugal feels side by side on social issues. Yesterday, however, the Commission released a statistics on the percentage of population living in poor housing conditions and Portugal is the second country on this list — Portugal is the second worst. Eighteen years of PS governance in the last 25 years have produced 24 % of Portuguese living in poor housing conditions. So when you say that Portugal is accompanying you in the social dimension, President von der Leyen must be speaking in another country. It confuses the friendship you want to show by your friend Antonio with the narratives that PS communication is creating. The reality, this thing is boring to narratives, is unfortunately very different and the problem is that von der Leyen is not used to dealing with such arguments as « cobra bath », the only purpose of which is to maintain power. The worst results of the use of European funds in the past confirm this: Portugal has been diverging from the European Union for two decades. The Portuguese have less purchasing power today compared to the European Union average than they were 20 years ago. And this will continue, because it has already been realized that nothing will change in the governance of the new funds. No one knows very well how and who will evaluate, select and follow the projects that will be supported. No one has yet understood how it can be ensured that this time there will be social and economic return on these investments. No one has yet explained to us why this time we are not just going to grow the public debt mountain and regret another missed opportunity. I leave a final note to say that the Commission well knows that there are only resources for the important social dimension if there is economic growth. To that end, we cannot add to the Portuguese statistician leadership a European leadership, to define projects from top to bottom, without knowing what each nation is prepared to execute.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u358	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u359	I shall conclude, Mr President. The European Union cannot continue to fatten the bureaucratic machine that everything wants to regulate and uniformize. Portugal should be the alert voice requiring that the decision on a large part of the projects depend on each Member State. Rich countries and poor countries have different needs, large countries and small countries have different priorities, central countries and peripheral countries have different interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u360	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u361	In politics, as in life, treating what is different is injustice, and it is injustice that we would like to see the Portuguese Presidency fighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u362	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now closing this debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank all the speeches and exemplary collaboration that the Assembly of the Republic has maintained with the Government, so that the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency programme of the Council of the European Union is also a moment of affirmation of European and Portuguese values and a moment of affirmation of the value which Portugal adds to the European Union. The programme presented by Mr President of the Committee on European Affairs speaks for himself and the Government is at the disposal of everything Parliament needs from the point of view of cooperation. I am also grateful for the reference by Mrs Isabel Oneto to the fact that the promotion of the College of Europe this year is being put under the inspiration of one of the largest Europeanists, Dr. Mário Soares. Mr Bruno Dias has remembered, and well, that we still live in uncertainty. In January, when the Presidency begins, we do not know what new problems we are going to face and what old problems will continue to solve us, but it is precisely when there is uncertainty about the evolution of things that we should have the greatest clarity in our strategy, our objectives, our principles and our ways of acting. from my point of view, no one is better than Mário Soares to show us this clear orientation that we need, pro-European, but for a strong Europe politically and socially and a vibrant Europe from an economic point of view. I would also like to thank the support that the PSD has expressed through Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, to the main priority of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union by Portugal, the priority for social Europe. I take the words of the honourable Member when he draws attention to how important the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights is. This Pillar is still only a political commitment made at the Gothenburg Conference in 2018 by European leaders, but it is necessary to move on to practice and transform the political commitment into a plan of action. The European Commission is going to present the action plan in February and it is very important that it is not alone and that it has the European Council's political guidance and momentum for the implementation plan to be concrete and implemented itself. This is the fundamental meaning of the Social Summit that we will organize in Porto in May in the molds that I described here. To be implemented, Europe's European Pillar of Social Rights implies consistent advances in matters of European reinsurance of unemployment benefit, guarantee for children and youth, support for gender equality and wage equality between men and women, support for active ageing, regulation of minimum income to which Europeans are entitled, whether the minimum wage or the minimum income itself. I therefore appreciate the support of the PSD for these priorities. By continuing to address this bench, of course, we know that there are ongoing processes that are not yet completed and we have actively contributed, already in our responsibility for the forthcoming Presidency, to ensure that they are closed in a positive way. One of them is the agreement with the United Kingdom, which we find essential, both from a European point of view and from a national point of view. If this is a task for the Portuguese Presidency, it will perform the CL as best it knows and can. We also hope that, during this month, there will be agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on the multiannual financial framework and that the obstacles to national ratifications of the decisions taken by the European Council in July, including on the Recovery Fund and on the need to comply with the rule of law of our Union when we apply European funds to which we have access. With regard to the internal question of the funds, which he referred to, when I speak, I already know at least three initiatives from three different parliamentary groups, just so that this Parliament can continue to monitor the implementation of the funds in Portugal. With regard to 5G networks, she is well aware of the European and Portuguese decision on safety requirements that any company, whether a direct or indirect supplier of 5G networks, must comply with when it comes to critical infrastructure communications networks. With regard to the question put by Mr João Almeida, who said that we cannot define the Portuguese Presidency as a time of action alone, I must say that the time to act is the most difficult.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u364	That's why!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u365	That is why this is really one of the fundamental slogans of the Portuguese Presidency. The honourable Member complains that the European Council added to the multiannual financial framework EUR 750 billion available to the Member States...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u366	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u367	... by 2026, not only to respond to this conjuncural need for the recovery of the post-COVID economy, but also to use this opportunity for the structural transformation of the European economy and society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u368	Okay.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u369	Sounds a little strange to me. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nothing better than some statements made in this House to show the clarity of the distinctions that occur here and that make the richness of the democratic debate. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo believes that only with economic growth can there be social Europe. For, our Presidency is organized exactly on the contrary: only with a social Europe will we have economic growth favourable to employment, income and, yes, the rights of workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u370	Yeah, sure! That's why it's not going to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u371	Mr Ventura complains that we are talking about racism when we are once again devastated in Europe by poverty. It is precisely because we want to fight poverty, because we are in favour of freedom, human dignity and non-discrimination, because we understand that all people are equal and free in rights that we fight against racism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u372	We therefore end this debate by welcoming the Government again. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 650 / XIII / 4. a ( Humberto Tomaz de Sousa Almeida e Silva et al.) — Say No to Paredão and the Resolution Projects Nos 549 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reassess the work of extending the outer seabreak of the Port of Legions, 611 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspension of the procedure for awarding works of expansion of the Port of Legions, including extension of the outer seabreak, 616 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the application of all environmental impact reduction measures in works to extend the Leixions Seabreak and the new container terminal and 650 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Intensification and credibility of the environmental impact assessment of the works integrated in the maritime accessibility project to Porto de Leixões. To present the legislative initiative of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u373	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome the nearly 7,000 petitioners who have joined and mobilized around this concern for many people, particularly from the Metropolitan Area of Porto, from Matosinhos to Espinho. This petition gives voice to citizens and citizens, associations, companies and public entities, basically, to a whole community that has joined to express its will: to say 'no' to the wall. The concerns of the petitioners, which we are accompanying, are several and concern, in particular, different forms of impact, both at environmental level and in the local economy. We know that, since this petition was created, there have already been several developments, namely the creation, by the government's office, of a working group that sought to find a way to tell these citizens and citizens that would be heard, despite nothing that these people claimed had been effectively welcomed. Whether people who reside on the seafront, or people who enjoy the beaches of Matosinhos to Espinho, or people who have more concerns about environmental impacts, or people who dynamize the local economy, particularly in Matosinhos, have listed a number of aspects that are not at all careful with the process that has been done. In addition, if we review the report of the Preliminary Analysis of Sliding Activities in Waves on Matosinhos Beach, we will see that it is clear that this beach stands out as one of the main stages of the country for learning surf-related modalities, being the center of this industry in northern Portugal. Matosinhos beach has become a national reference and the practice of this sport activity is quite beneficial for the local economy. According to the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, this work estimates losses in the local economy around 20 million euros a year. This same Laboratory points out another problem with the extension of the outer seabreak, that of the increase of coastal edge erosion to the south, which may lead to frequent episodes of gallgage. Another impact concerns marine ecosystems and associated aquatic biological communities. It is also necessary to effectively realise that the impact on the worsening of Matosinhos air quality, particularly in Matosinhos Sul, associated with road transport, which is expected to grow substantially with this work. They are estimated to be near 1300 trucks per day. On the argument of the increase in the competitiveness of Porto de Leixões, which has served as the main argument for the realization of this work, it should be said that there is not yet an estimate of the competitiveness that this intervention guarantees, i.e., we do not know how long we will hear the APDL ( Administration of the Ports of Douro, Leixões and Viana do Castelo ) and the Government will say that it will be necessary to intervene again to update the Port of Leixões. These citizens and citizens have repeatedly reminded us of the importance of being considered the global and cumulative impacts of the three interventions provided for in the work of maritime accessibility in Porto de Leixões, and these three works must integrate environmental impact studies in a cumulative way. Therefore, in the understanding of the NAP, the Government should, as requested in this petition, evaluate and consider all aspects and not have a unilateral view, disregarding what is the importance of the local economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u374	Mrs. Bebiana Cunha, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u375	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, the challenge we put forward in this House is that it recommends to the Government to reassess the works of prolonging the outer seabreak of the port of Legions and to ensure the assessment of the impact this work will have, in particular in the practice of surfing, and including the environmental impact in all municipalities, from Matosinhos to Espinho. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u376	To present the legislative initiative of your parliamentary group, you have the floor of Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Block of Left. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by thanking the petitioners and petitioners who have so much mobilized for a matter that has impact on Matosinhos, but also throughout the northern coastal region. This is a pressing issue. It is indisputable the importance of the construction of port infrastructures that enhance good conditions of navigation and safeguard the safety of browsers. It is no less true, however, that sea, water and soil policies should guarantee social, heritage, environmental sustainability, safeguarding the protection of biodiversity and, in this case, the impact on the coastal morphology of the North and Central Coast, even more so when we know the effects of climate change on the territories. Those who live in coastal areas are well aware of the impact of the swarms, grow and live with these stories of what no longer exists because of the advance of the sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u378	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u379	Now, in the expansion project of Porto de Leixões there are works that have been strongly challenged, either by local power or by the population, precisely because of the lack of prevention and caution in an intervention of this magnitude. The Matosinhos Municipal Assembly itself decided in February this year for the suspension of the competition for the break- sea of Matosinhos until there is a cumulative study of the three interventions that are part of the entire work to take place in the Port of Leixões for the expansion of its navigability. And it makes sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is, in fact, critical and unannounced that it is progressing towards the launch of tenders and the taking of commitments with a first intervention without any knowledge of the cumulative effects of the three works that will exist on that site. The three interventions concerned — intervention in the fund for 14 m, extension of the seabreak and new container terminal — affect the same area, are interdependent and, in fact, have impacts in the same area, which intensify each other. In addition, it is known that this type of intervention will have negative impacts on the southern coast and that these continue to be considered inadequately. In addition, several authorships have already shown renunciation in relation to the impact of these works on the coast of their municipalities, when they hear about the Program of the Coastal Orla Caminha-Espinho, which proposes that it be brought down existing precisely by the effect of the changes in the coast due to over-construction phenomena and climate change. Finally, the North Regional Coordination and Development Committee itself, in the opinion of the Evaluation Committee on the Quebra-Mar Environmental Impact Assessment Process, said that « there was an opportunity to express the understanding that the Strategic Development Plan of the APDL should be the subject of strategic environmental assessment » and that it would have allowed « on an appropriate scale, to assess, together and complementaryly, the various projects under the Plan, as well as to define and validate the best development options ». There is therefore the full awareness of the importance of the port of Leixões, but also the importance of not deepening the effects of coastal erosion and the increase in the number of episodes of gallgage, already so frequent in the region. And this consciousness is broad and almost consensual. Despite all this, the APDL and the ministry that protects it seems to continue not to want to prevent it from remedying. Making the strategic environmental assessment of the Plan and including the coast south of Porto in the assessment of effects is essential to advance with all knowledge to minimize impacts. That is why we are again proposing the suspension of the award until we can act preventively and with the notion of cumulative impacts. This is what we propose in this project: intervention with weight, measurement and caution. We don't expect anything else. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u380	The next intervention is for the CFP, and Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u381	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I should like to begin by congratulating the petitioners who brought the debate on the issues related to the breaking of legions and their works. It should be remembered that, in March of this year, in view of the information that had come to the public, noting that the APDL was preparing to award the work of extension of the seabreak, and that the APDL at that time publicly stated that it would already have felt positive of all the entities needed to carry out the work, the CFP, knowing the various concerns that had been expressed, questioned the Government exactly on this matter. The framework of this work in a much wider set of investments, which include the conversion of the southern container terminal and the requalification of the fishing port, together with the legitimate concerns of the populations and the authorities of the affected area with regard to the impacts caused in the environment, particularly on the level of the quality of the beach water, the consequences of bathing practice and nautical sports, the excess of container container container terminals - in fact, mine walls with one of the main restoration areas of the city of Matosinhos - of the effects of increased cargo on the mobility and road network of the municipality, as well as the consequences for the fishing port, are of concern to us. The legitimate doubts and concerns raised by the population, which led even to the take-up of autarchical position, including the consideration of, then, there should not be any award until all impact studies relating to all planned investments, in a global and cumulative way, as well as the negative way in which the APDL has developed the initial phase of the project, without sharing information with the authorities and the populations, which, moreover, led to the establishment of a commission to monitor the project, involving the APDL, representatives of the authorities and representatives of potentially affected economic activities, and it should be noted that this group has spent several months without gathering, with no information or clarification on the award of the work of the breach of the sea — have led to the establishment of a PCP, involving the PCP in March, the Government on the point of the competition situation, on the commitments it had taken by the APDL regarding the performance of this project, as well as on the point of the situation of the environmental impact studies and its intended investment, without the proposed by all non- In August of this year, it was known the environmental impact study, of which we highlight two observations that, because of our concerns, go against what we have already pointed out. I quote: ‘The location chosen for the project will require partial reformulation of the fishing port, which represents a negative potential in this activity. » About the fishing port of Matosinhos and the conditions for the development of the fish trade activity, the CFP has already stated that we have witnessed several changes to the organization of the space intended for these activities, changes to the location of the fish's refrigeration conservation spaces and of the commercial spaces associated with the sales and the reconfiguration of the landing arms itself, and all measures are being taken to defend this activity and its modernization. Citing again the environmental impact study, it is important to remember that "the new terminal will boost a negative visual impact on the surrounding landscape, even more significant than the extension of the seabreak, not only by the grandeur of the project, but also by the proximity that it presents to the historic nucleus of Matosinhos and Leça da Palmeira". These elements, which meet the concerns that the CFP has expressed, naturally deserve our concern. We have always considered the Port of Legions as one of the great levers of economic development in the North and Country region and investments in port modernization are welcome and necessary, given that this is the most used port for the exports of companies in the region. However, the special features of this port, which coexist with the urban nuclei of Matosinhos and Leça da Palmeira, have to ensure a dialogue with the community, to ensure, at the same time, the development of the port and the improvement of the living conditions of the populations. Thus, we have stressed the need for the effective and profound involvement of the populations and of all those who will be affected by these changes, and their concerns should be considered in the execution of this work. We therefore present this initiative to ensure the implementation of all necessary and recommended measures, including in the environmental impact study already published, in order to minimize the impact of this intervention, involving all stakeholders and taking into account concerns about the implementation of this project. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u382	The next intervention is by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, and Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u383	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin by greeting the thousands of petitioners who have overwritten the petition « Say No to Paredão », which refers to the environmental and socio-economic impacts of the work of prolonging the breach of the port of Leixões. This is an issue which the Greens Ecological Party has been following, accompanying the concerns of the population, the authorities and the various sectors of activity. The Greens question the decision of APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) not to have advanced with the complementary studies, through which it would be possible to know the impacts that the work will have on economic activities, sports practice, bathing and tourism activity in the involvement of the project. To date, it has not been considered the global and cumulative impacts of the three interventions envisaged in the work of maritime accessibility of Porto de Leixões, despite the works compete for the same purpose and being the environment clearly affected by the projects, between the beaches of Matosinhos and the area of the estuary of the river Leça. In the case of the environmental impact study of the container terminal, the proposed monitoring and monitoring actions are limited to air quality and noise, not providing for monitoring the quality of the water masses. However, the Greens insist on the introduction of a cumulative study on the environmental and social impacts of all the works in question, in a perspective of strategic environmental assessment, in order to assess, strictly and precisely, the global and interconnected impacts of the works in question, all the more so that their implementation phases may coincide. This will determine whether it will be possible to develop project works in a sustainable way and respecting fishing, tourism, sports activities, restaurants and hotels. The Administration of the Ports of Douro, Leixões and Viana do Castelo provides for the award of the work of extension of the seabreak in the last quarter of 2020, and the APD ensures that the award will take place only with the environmental impact title of the other undertakings, in accordance with the agreement with the authorities of Matosinhos. The declaration of environmental impact presupposes a five-year period for the evaluation of the project's impact on the practice of wave sports on the beaches of Matosinhos and International, which assumes that only the posteriori are defined according to the conclusions obtained, and there is currently no forecast of possible responses to these impacts. This is unacceptable and distorts the full logic of the usefulness of relevant environmental policy instruments, proving that they are often more a pro-form than a serious basis for environmentally sustainable decision-making. The Greens cannot deal with this perversion and, in this sense, the draft resolution we bring today the discussion considers it urgent that it be determined that the works do not progress without a serious and complete environmental assessment; that the studies of the impacts of the project of the extension of the sea on the practice of waves sports and on the current economic value on the beach of Matosinhos and on the International beach be made public, making it possible to define timely measures or alternatives to the project, in order to make this activity compatible with the remaining existing activities; that it be ensured continuous monitoring of the quality of water, in the context of the environmental monitoring of the areas affected by each of the projects; and, finally, that the conditions for broad participation and involvement of the public interested in the assessment of the impacts of the works of Porto de Leixões, a democratic aspect that has often been forgotten, but that the dimension of this petition is underlined.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u384	The next intervention is the work of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u385	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to greet the petitioners and tell you that the position of the Liberal Initiative on the theme of wall is very simple: it is necessary to stop the works and request the overall evaluation of the expansion project of the Port of Legions, in its three phases, in a joint and integrated way. There is also a lack of analysis of economic rationality and knowledge of the impacts of the new container terminal, without which the extension of the seabreak is not justified. It is necessary to know the impacts at the level of other economic activities, such as tourism, trade and real estate, as well as the impacts at the level of mobility, environment and urban mesh. This new terminal has significantly changed the urban setting of the traditional fishing and restoration area of Matosinhos Sul, which has been quite successful. In addition, the wall itself will have impacts on the beach of Matosinhos and on the areas of Matosinhos, Porto / Foz and Gaia, hence the opposition of several associations and groups linked to maritime sports, with which we agree. It is also imperative the strategic definition of what is intended for the Port of Legions. Is it going to be a transshipment port, a hub or a feeder? In recent decades, Porto de Leixões has been successful as a feeder, flexible and agile, and it does not seem that it can grow for a competitive hub, with space limitations that exist. He is thus at risk of becoming another « white elephant», with the taxpayers' money, to which the Members of Parliament are entitled. Socialists both used us, with the aggravating in this case, to destroy other economic activities and, consequently, the quality of life of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u386	The next intervention will be by Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u387	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the petitioners, their mobilisation and, above all, the fact that they have made this decision, which is a very serious decision, have been able to have a public discussion and the involvement of the people and not simply have been taken on their backs, which I believe for a long time was what was being prepared. in this matter, which deals with the construction of the extension of an external seabreak in the port of leixões, associated with other works in port, there are two interests concerned, and I think that this should be told to people with border because they are, or may be, conflicting interests. The environmental impact study says that the construction of the extension of the wall, in its expected size of 300 m, can change in fact, and in permanence, the beaches of Porto and Matosinhos, i.e. there can be on these beaches and, above all, on the surrounding sea relevant environmental consequences, relevant consequences on the use of the beach, because, by changing the undulation, it can make the practice of wave sports impossible on the beaches, or on some beaches of Porto and Matosinhos, and those who know that this radically alters the use given to them. Therefore, a decision of these cannot be made lightly. On the other hand, it is also good to see that Porto de Leixões needs, in fact, investments to receive larger ships and to continue to be the most significant port of the northwest peninsula in container port. If no investments are made in the Port of Legions, it will lose competitiveness. This is also a reality and it is good for us to be aware of it. The petition we are considering today allowed a wide public discussion, a follow-up group involving the authorities, the population and the economic partners and, of course, had some progress on some issues, but continued without answering an essential question: is there any alternative or not? They continue unexplained and the APDL continues to offer no assurances that the only way to make that expansion is through the extension of the spring at 300 m. There is an alternative solution that many have proposed and that would allow to match the competitiveness needs of Porto de Leixões, which are very important, with the beaches of Porto and Matosinhos, which are also important. This solution would be the construction of a smaller spring, which would not exceed 200 m. This is a solution that can and, of course, must be studied before progressing towards the construction of enlargement. Therefore, I would conclude by saying that I agree with the projects that propose the suspension and the need to reassess the extension of the seabreak, but I disagree, as it was perceived, of some of the foundations with which they do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u388	It is now time to speak to Mr Pedro Sousa of the Socialist Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u389	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The port of Legions is undoubtedly one of the main economic motors in our country. This is a port infrastructure which, in addition to integrating an important fishing port, is the gateway to goods coming from the upper northern region to more than 180 countries. With an annual movement of around 19, 5 million tonnes in 2018, Porto de Leixões will have even represented about 11 % of the North Region's GDP and 6 % of the national GDP, involving around 20 % of the employment in Matosinhos municipality and 11 % in the North Region. In fact, Porto de Leixões has seen an increase in the number of container enlivened and demand by larger container ships, factors resulting in the important challenge of its modernization, under the penalty of losing competitiveness. Here we come, we find ourselves on the basis of the draft resolutions under discussion today and the reason why more than 6000 citizens have submitted a petition to this Parliament. Although they agree with the need for port modernization, they present us with a set of concerns regarding the environmental impacts of investments, concerns which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies, welcoming, therefore, the petitioners who brought us their hopes and critical thinking. As regards the draft resolutions, I am pleased to recall Gandhi, who said that « honest disputes are often a healthy sign of progress». Well, unfortunately, we cannot face all projects in this way, since, in their recitals and recommendations, they fall short of rigor and assertivity. Indeed, if, on the one hand, we cannot devalue environmental impacts, it is also true that much of the concerns expressed has already been resolved, because it deserved correspondence in the environmental impact statement and in the opinion of the committee to monitor the new container terminal project. In fact, in relation to the work of the seabreak, which has deserved « conditioned favourable opinion », it is mentioned that, and I quote, « (...) very positive effects will be generated in the creation of employment and the dynamisation of economic activities (... ), in particular « (...) in the transport, catering, hotel, among others (... ). Do not keep on seeking. ” Concerns about the impact on the practice of wave sports are also reflected in the environmental impact statement, and the APD has already contracted a study to characterize the economic value of these important sports, and compensatory measures may take place. As regards the quality of bathing water, despite the relative turbidity at the work stage, the study concluded that it will not be affected during the holding. At the geomorphology level, it is considered that « positive impacts are expected(...) in the north and central and negative sectors in the south sector, in both cases of moderate magnitude, and negative impacts can be minimized by reperfiling(...) ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is therefore important to highlight the measures to minimize environmental impacts, as well as the forecast of monitoring programmes, in particular at the level of coastal development, cultural heritage, water quality, benthic macrofauna and the sound environment. In all this process, the role of the monitoring group, which, together with the meetings with the local community, gave the international reference institutions a set of complementary studies, which finally corroborated the conclusions presented. It is also necessary to address the position taken by Mr Minister of Infrastructure, who stated that there was "an approximation to the concerns expressed by the House of Matosinhos" and that "there will only be a place for the award of the work of the seabreak after the assessment of the work of the new terminal of containers", which, as is known, has not yet been completed environmental impact assessment, but that it should include cumulative impacts, according to a reformulated environmental impact study. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must think globally and act locally. This is a matter which must mean maximum rationality in the overall assessment and high sense of state in the decision. Maximum rationality because we have to consider the strategic, economic and social importance of the port of Legions ; high sense of state to take decisions that curate national interests, do not question Community participation and contribute to national economic recovery. The trinomium ‘progress, environmental protection and respect for local identity’ should be honored and maximized. Mr President, I conclude by recalling Auguste Comte, when he stated that "progress is the law of the history of humanity and man is in constant process of evolution". We know how to build history with progressive vision, evolving in our own thinking, always in strict respect for the well-being of future generations and for the defense of environmental balance, because, thus, we will also be safeguarding the future of humanity itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u390	To conclude this item on our agenda, you have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alberto Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing a petition signed by more than 6500 citizens, who I greet, entitled « Say No to Paredão », which highlights the economic importance of Porto de Leixões but contests this project by the partial version of the environmental impact study commissioned and by the lack of response to various environmental and economic issues. The project to extend the seabreak and new maritime accessibility is justified by the APDL with the need for another terminal of containers for larger vessels. And it is known that APA approved this work with conditioning, supported in this environmental impact study that evaluated only a part of the global project and did not deepen the true environmental impact that all the work will have on the municipality of Matosinhos and adjacent municipalities, as well as on the seafront. The first question to be asked is: why is a work of this importance and importance divided at the level of studies and projects? What's being hidden? It is that the Portuguese are already, in a certain way, tired of the pharaonic works of the Socialist Party, which then happens to be not supported in the proper studies and that they quickly become « white elephants ». This is the case with Beja Airport, School Park, among many other examples that we do not want to see continued. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u392	For PSD, this is a modus operandi with which we cannot agree. in an attentive reading of the environmental impact study, we can conclude by the lack of forecasting and evaluation of the consequences on water and air quality, in view of the increase in the expected pollution. It is also concluded that there is a lack of studies complementary to the consequences of these works on the beaches south of the spring, particularly at the level of wave and sand deposition. It seems certain that the beach of Matosinhos will be almost undulating, preventing the practice of waves sports, so important in this region. But what will happen on the beaches of Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia and Espinho? You don't know. Nor has the impact on bathing water quality been studied and how this work will involve the safety conditions of bathers. It is worth assessing and clarifying issues about currents that transport solid waste from the Douro River and that can, with the extension of the wall, transform Matosinhos beach into a garbage dump. The LNEC (National Laboratory of Civil Engineering) also points to the reduction of maritime agitation and the increase of erosion on the beaches to the south, which may lead to episodes of gallgage. Several navigation experts question the length of the proposed wall. Why 300 m? This is a question for which there is no serious answer in any of the documents accessible to the public. On the other hand, in the always very important economic aspect of Porto de Leixões, it remains to be clarified the real impact of this work on Porto de Leixões, especially in how many years it will allow to prolong the competitiveness of this port. The populations do not understand why the design of the new container terminal is so hidden. It is clear that the Port of Legions needs to increase its ability to move containers, but to do a work of this size, claiming that the future is on ships of 5000 TEU (twenty-footequivalent unit), it seems not justified by the fact that the Port of Legions is not a port of transhipment, where these large ships scale. It is internationally recognized that large container ships serve almost exclusively transhipment ports, whose interland includes large consumption centres and large industrial areas, which is not the case. If not, be transparent and answer: what is the relationship between this work and the Government's project for the exploitation and refining of lithium?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u393	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u394	Is this work not hiding a "Galambice"? [[PSD Members' laughs.]] Nor are the consequences of the new terminal of the fishing port, whose area of deployment and landing will be significantly reduced. We want to know what the impacts of this work on the fishing fleet and on the restoration of Matosinhos, one of the sites of excellence of fish trade, with a project to indicate the relocation of the fishing port not yet knowing where, when and effectively for what. This is a harsh blow to the municipality and the populations of Matosinhos, to their economic life linked to fishing and restoration. Moreover, the work should never begin without first knowing what the maneuvers of these large ships are in the docking and landing, while other ships are in the terminal. At least there should be a simulation study, since the APDL technicians themselves say it is not possible to perform such maneuvers. The environmental impact study also neglected the amount of rock to be broken and dredged: one million and eight hundred thousand cubic metres in the passage area of the ships. Performing this work can mean a brutal spillage of costs, disturbances in the operation of the Port, extension of the work much beyond the deadline, and are more than 1200 trucks per day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u395	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u396	I'm done now, Mr. President. Several technicians heard during the public discussion period by local organizations and institutions point out that the APDL should not prioritise the extension of the seabreak before ensuring, first, the necessary reformulation of the container terminal, a fundamental issue to ensure the return of the investment. in this scenario, the PSD considers it essential to carry out the missing studies, so that we can clearly and transparently know what the real environmental and economic impacts of this work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u397	The Bureau made a mistake because it did not verify that there was still time for intervention for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which it wishes to use, with all legitimacy. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, therefore, has the floor again for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u398	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having listened carefully to Mr Pedro Sousa, it seems to me that the apologies are several but that there was no follow-up, despite being from Matosinhos, so concrete as to the work and changes to the new studies on port. The follow-up working group did not follow up so much — it has already been said that several meetings did not exist — and transparency has not increased. In addition, the Left Block Parliamentary Group itself requested the administration of the APDL to study economic viability and it was not empowered to do so. We only have an environmental impact study of the new container terminal, which should already exist and although it does exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u399	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u400	What this study does not take into account is the cumulative amount of impacts that have the different environmental impact studies. If you add them, not wanting to be demagogic, they may have more impact on the landscape and surface water resources than you said recently. In fact, denying climate change is not progressive, it is negationist. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u401	There are still 6 seconds for the Socialist Party, Mr Pedro Sousa has the floor, for a quick intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u402	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to clarify the Left Block on the fact that, in July this year, a reformulated study has been submitted to the Monitoring Committee and APA, which contains all the cumulative impacts of the three works. He then asked the Bureau to make this document available to all parliamentary boards, especially those of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u403	All right, Mr. Deputies, of course. We have now completed this item on the agenda and moved on to the fourth and final point, which deals with the joint assessment of Petition No 637 / XIII / 4. a ( National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers ) — They request that the chartering profession be qualified as rapid wear, and the Resolution Project No 657 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the cartel activity, with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity and ensuring the safety and health conditions at work. To present this legislative initiative, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Block of Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Members : Last week the World Post Day was celebrated. on the same day, 9 October, a group of workers from the CTT ( Correios de Portugal ) were concentrated in order to claim answers that were very necessary for these professionals, answers that we are discussing today. These answers are necessary for this petition to lead us to debate and, from now on, I greet the representatives of the petitioners and the union present here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, just read what the petition tells us to understand the reality of what we are talking about. If we analyze the physical loads that are displaced by the wallets on average, we can reach the point of, in a year, a stacked cart carrying about 7200 kg, traveling around 1900 km. When we talk about motorized wallets, for example, there are also high levels of physical load, with the increase of mounting and loading vehicles. Now, let's think about the impact this has on the life of a postman who starts his profession at the age of 20 and retires to the age of 66. They are years and years of work to perform the same function, which has long-term consequences from the physical point of view. We know that your physical effort is tremendous, as well as the jaws that it leaves in the body forever. In addition, the adverse climate conditions that have to endure while doing their service are another factor of wear and, more importantly, the psychological pressure resulting from daily contact with users. This point has a special relevance at a time when quality indices are, for consecutive years, below what is required. The poster is, for many people in our country, one of the only points of contact with the State or with some kind of public service. It is an absolutely relevant social function. Due to the private management of the CTTs, in recent years, the organization of the work of the portfolios has suffered. The bad management options have an impact on the day-to-day working people and those who deal daily with the discontent of so many users, increasing the number of workers with low health problems, not only physical but also psychological. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of this House often discuss the subject of rapid wear in various professions. Most of the time, this problem reaches us through the petitions of the workers themselves. This should alert us to the real dimension of the problem. Similarly, the Left Block has been alerting to the growing number of professions and workers who have started these struggles to improve the conditions of those who work in Portugal. It is not by chance that more and more professions, of different sectors of activity, have asked for recognition of their profession as of rapid wear, as happens today. We therefore understand that it is necessary to ensure that workers develop their activities in health and safety at work. There is a need for labour regulations to guarantee these conditions and also the conditions of reform which are due to them, in the case of rapid and early wear, in addition to the conditions of health which are increased in the workplace. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the case of wallets, this claim is absolutely fair. In the case of TTCs, it has been the workers who have suffered the most from private management, which we will debate tomorrow and that we need to reverse. This private management has had influence both on the dismissal of workers and on their working conditions, on the organization of work, and also on the very way in which the service gets less and less to the users of our country. It is to the working conditions of the portfolios to which Parliament must restore and that is exactly what the Left Block calls for in its project. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u405	The next intervention is for Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow us to welcome all the portfolios, in the active and reform, all the postal workers and the National Union of Post and Telecommunications Workers present here. With its resistance, today and forever, the workers of the post, in particular the wallets, have been confronted with the worsening working conditions at an unbearable level. Since the start of the way for the privatisation of the company in 2013, the closure of services, the burden of work, the attack on labour rights and the increasing amount of « double turns » are multiple factors contributing to an unacceptable exploitation and wear of workers. Workers and their organisations have been alerting to the grave problems in the functioning of the postal service and, at the same time, to the unacceptable situation which is being verified, as a result of this model of organization that TTCs are implementing, exacerbating the precariousness of work, reducing jobs, increasing working rhythms, reducing workers' income, harming users, who receive their mail, sometimes with several days' delay, and harming companies, who receive their correspondence almost at the end of the file. More recently, the administration of TTCs, under the cover of a alleged plan of modernization and investment, has been adding several distribution centres, making it possible to move hundreds of workers on their own to tens of miles away from their homes and creating conditions for the distribution of mail to be done even later and further degrading the already worst quality of service and the worst working conditions. We heard propaganda about the hiring of 800 workers, however, the accounts of the first half of 2020 quickly refuted this scenario, indicating that there had indeed been a reduction of 536 workers in one year. The situation is not only worse thanks to the enormous dedication and effort of the workers, who have carried out numerous actions of struggle, claiming the admission of more workers and the improvement of the conditions, to end the overload they are subject to and to be able to deliver a better quality service. The company's response to the COVID-19 epidemic was disastrous. instead of hiring the workers necessary to ensure the operation under security conditions, private management maintained the line of reduction of workers, dismissing all contracts in the long term, attacking the conditioned workers, not renewing contracts with many of the agents and brutally overloading the workers in the operational areas, either in the workloads they had to bear, or in the added risks they had to take. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the worker is not a disposable part and the transition to reform is not an alibi for exploitation and wildlife. We must listen to workers and their organizations and give concrete answers to problems. in this sense, seeking to contribute to this debate and this response, the CFP presented, in this Assembly, the Resolution Project No 717 / XIV / 2. a, proposing that the Government take measures to define and regulate a specific labour and retirement scheme for portfolios, considering the special risk and penosity in which they carry out the work they are restricted to, in conjunction with workers' representative organisations, without prejudice to more favourable provisions provided for in collective labour regulation instruments. But if it is true what the workers say, that «the struggle continues», it is also appropriate to say that this debate is continuing, and it is continuing tomorrow. We have tomorrow to schedule the debate of legislative proposals for the return of TTCs to the public sphere, so that the company and the TTC Group will again refer to public service, service to populations, regions, economics and respect for workers, their rights and working conditions. These are stages of this same path and we will continue. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u407	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u408	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Greens, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to this petition, as well as the National Union of Post and Telecommunications Workers, who have promoted it and stimulated it, and who demand that the mail profession be qualified as a rapidly worn-out profession. The petitioners, in the text giving the body to the petition, duly justify this claim, whose grounds are based mainly on three central elements: first, the pressure and stress which the profession of the post office requires in the exercise of its activity, arising in particular from the need to fulfil strict and objective deadlines relating to the postal service itself in general, but also the responsibility arising from the delivery of judicial notifications and communications from other central elements: first, the pressure and stress which the charter profession requires in the exercise of its activity, due in particular to the need to fulfil strict and objective deadlines relating to the postal service itself in general, but also to the responsibility arising from the delivery of judicial notifications and communications from other public entities, as well as the correspondence which implies the fulfilment of legal obligations; second, the emotional or physical wear and physical wear and physical wear resulting from the daily effort of those who have to pull, whether or not every day on the day of the day of the day of the day of work; finally, a 30 kg of 30 kg, during 8 km, during 8 km, within 5 hours, or five hours, or five hours, or five hours on the working conditions of work, or one day, since the working conditions of work, since the task, since, since the performance of the large-time, since the performance of carriage of the large, as possible, as possible, as possible, shall be performed by the job, shall be carried, shall be carried, shall be carried, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be carried, and shall be carried, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be carried, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be carried by, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be carried by the maximum, and shall be carried by the maximum, and shall be carried, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be, and shall be as as as as as as as as as as, as, as, as, as as as as as, as, as possible......... In fact, this is how it is: raining or suning, wallets do their important work during the four seasons of the year. In addition, these professionals often have to face sudden climate changes, which, in combination with the weight of the cart that they have to carry for 5 hours on their working day, causes serious problems and power, particularly column. Therefore, while not ignoring the need to revisit other work materials in order to ensure that workers develop their activity in health and safety conditions at work, it is important, in our view, to review the regulation of the chartering profession, in order to provide conditions that protect these workers, seeking to reduce the wear caused by the exercise of this activity and ensuring the conditions of health and safety at work. I would like to leave three final notes, to say the following: first, that the working conditions of the wallets have become much worse with the private management of the TTCs and that, tomorrow, as mentioned above, we will have the opportunity to reverse this privatisation, so there is political will; second, that the Greens fully communicate the concerns and purposes of the petitioners and follow the legislative initiative of the Block of Left that is also under discussion; third, to remember that if the amendment to the law of petitions, ‘cooked’ and approved by the PS and PS, was already in force, this petition, which affects such an important matter, would not go up to the plenary, because it would not have enough signatures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u409	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u410	...what would be absolutely regrettable not to say anything more serious. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u411	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u412	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I comply with the petitioners, more than 5000, and the National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers. I will say what I have said several times about the same nature agendas. The question of the professions of rapid wear analyzed individually has a completely different context from what has to be a global analysis, with clear criteria and a table for, those that are considered to be rapidly wearable, if one can apply the same regime, because no one accepts today that a legitimate and probably merited regime for portfolios, then another for cabin crews, then another for other professions of quick wear and that, of course, there is no consistency between these legal regimes. The CDS presented, already in this Legislation, the Bill No. 234 / XIV / 1. in order to create a working group that made legislation with the definition of what are fast wear professions and that create a table. At the time, our bill deserved an almost general consensus, but it deserved the Socialist Party's rejection with the following argument: the PS said at the time that it was not worth approving the CDS bill, not because the project had no merit, not because what it pointed out was not the right way, but because the government was already doing so. This is usually the argument he uses to reject initiatives when the content is impossible to be rejected. That is saying: "No, no, that's all very right, but the government is already doing so. Do not keep on seeking. ” It happens that this debate took place on May 14th! They passed all these months and either the government works very slowly, or the government does not care about people who actually work in fast wear jobs, or what we were told was to deceive who was listening to the debate. What we have to say to the bookkeepers right now, as we said to the cabin crew at the time, is that, for us, this matter was settled, it was legislated. And of two: either it applied or it didn't apply to each of the cases, and then we could answer that. What is happening at the moment is that it is not entirely acceptable, and that only has one responsible, which is the government, because there is no clear legislation that allows for all these situations to be answered. So I'm very curious to see what the Socialist Party is going to pass on to us about what was almost ready for five months. What happened now and on what foot are we on?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u413	For an intervention, Mr Nelson Basilio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u414	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by welcoming this initiative launched by the National Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications, making use of the resilience that the postal workers and their trade unions have had in the fight against the restrictions and limitations of labour rights that the private administration of TTCs has carried out in recent years. Today, we discussed the charter classification as a quick wear profession. This is a demand for greater justice and is one of the most fair valuations of these professionals, who make an irreplaceable contribution to the country and who perform a real public service mission under great difficulties and with very precarious working conditions. In the health crisis they never stopped. Although this is forgotten, most wallets in our country are on foot and not to work on temp days or hot days. On average, they carry 30 kg of mail in a circle of 8 km. They do so in 5 hours on a normal day, or in much more hours on more days of mail, as is the case in holidays, after they enter work before 7 hours in the morning, sometimes before sunrise and, at the end, still have to account for the work done. A postman with 55 or 60 years of age and 30 years of house today uses a cart to transport the mail, but until a few years ago such transport was made in shoulder bags, which made his mission even more painful and exhausting than it is today. Back pain, muscle pain, hernias, varicose veins, pain in the feet, wounds and blisters in the feet are some of the health problems a carter faces daily. These problems greatly condition your family life, make the mailman sit or lie down to rest in his free time, condition his social and family life on weekends. The wallets deserve an appreciation that they have not had. Like other professions, this should be classified as a rapidly worn-out profession, so the NAP undertakes, here and now, to present, within the budget of the State, a proposal, very similar to that of the CDS-PP, for the establishment, next year, of a working group that identifies all the rapidly worn-out professions and gives them the inherent rights, so that the portfoliors and other professionals are valued and that the effort they give to the country is recognized every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u415	For an intervention, Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u416	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the petitioners who are in the gallery and through them I also greet all the subscribers of this citizen initiative, because its object is of great importance to the workers given the theme brought to debate, stressing that the political participation of citizens translates into deepening democracy. By virtue of this petition, with more than 5000 signatures, the National Directorate of the National Trade Union of Workers of Mails and Telecommunications calls for, for all purposes, the profession of mailman to be qualified as a rapid waste. in this sense, the petitioners clearly identify a set of characteristics necessary to this qualification, both with regard to pressure and stress as well as with regard to emotional or physical wear and, at the end, with regard to working conditions. The need to qualify a given profession as a rapid wear is a recurring situation in all legislatures. In fact, there are several citizen initiatives with this objective, such as call center workers, police, stoners, cabin crews and nurses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD values all the professions, recognizes the greatest wear associated with some of them, as well as the legitimacy of some workers to understand that their profession should be considered to be worn out quickly, but the PSD considers that this matter cannot be treated only on the political stage, a careful analysis must be made, because it is necessary to ensure justice and equity between the different professional activities and also to conduct studies, particularly with regard to the financial impact. I recall, as mentioned above, that the CDS-PP presented a bill that aimed to create legislation that did not uniformize the special retirement age anticipation regime, because, as it is obvious, even though it is the professions of rapid wear, it presents characteristics that distinguish them and the regime cannot be the same for all those who have this statute, legislation that serves as a framework, especially in access to the status of the rapid wear occupation. This initiative, which the PSD accompanied and which was plunged by the left parties, aimed to create a multidisciplinary working group to produce this legislation. I note that the PS voted against and justified its sense of vote by claiming that "the government has already been pursuing a process identical to what the CDS proposes, and it would be redundancy. Do not keep on seeking. ” We are surprised that the Left Block, a PS coalition partner, does not know the existence of this government process and that the tow of the petition under consideration today presents a draft resolution, recommending that the Government review the regulation of the charter profession. On the other hand, it should be noted that the Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security did not respond to the request for information put to her by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the subject of this petition. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to ask: does the government process or the working group, as we want to call it, referred to by the PS, really exist? Or is it another one that exists on paper, but what's it gonna be on the drawer? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u417	Does the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security have nothing to say about the object of this petition? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD reaffirms, once again, that it fully understands the claims and concerns of professionals who aim to qualify their profession as a rapid weariness, but the PSD also recognizes that it is necessary to make a serious and rigorous evaluation and to establish exact rules for the definition of the standards of the professions of rapid weariness in order to avoid injustice or duality of criteria. I conclude by reaffirming once again that the PSD wants, as is its habit, to solve the problems of workers, but we deal with matters with seriousness and responsibility, unlike others who insist on waving flags doing nothing concrete. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u418	Mr Fernando José has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the National Union of Mail Workers and Telecommunications not only for this initiative, but also for the 46 years of struggle for the defence of telecommunications workers, the more than 5000 petitioners, as well as I welcome the initiative brought here by the Block of Left. The Socialist Party understands the claims and concerns of the portfoliors, who aim to qualify their profession as a rapid wear, as well as the claims and concerns of many other professionals, such as cabin crew members, call center operators, wind technicians, nurses, among other professionals who also aim to qualify their profession as a rapid wear. It is in this context that the Socialist Party and the Government consider it necessary to lay down standard rules for the definition of professions which should be framed as rapid wear, ensuring justice and equity in the qualification of the various professions. Since the beginning of the year, the Government of Portugal has been conducting an internal legislative process in order to produce a diploma that regulates the professions of rapid wear — I repeat, since the beginning of this year. This process is taking place in conjunction with various ministries and with the participation of various related entities and the social partners, with the aim of establishing a set of clear and objective rules to identify which professions should be qualified as rapid wear. Ask the right if from January to here it won't be long. And we ask ourselves: and in four years, what did the PSD/CDS-PP government do to solve this problem? [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u420	A rapid wear profession must first be a profession with access to effective and effective measures to mitigate penocity, with an impact on health and safety issues at work, allowing to reduce the harsh working conditions and their negative impacts on the health of these professionals. For the Socialist Party, the theme of health and safety at work is priority and should be densified, although there is a clear notion that, in some professions, mitigation of risks is very difficult, if not impossible. It is therefore necessary to enhance the reduction of harsh working conditions and to safeguard the irreversible health implications of these professionals. Thus, we believe that, until the new rules are defined, there should be no qualification of rapid wear and tear professions. We will continue to make this path and we will certainly find consensus through a solution that cannot be avulsed, I reiterate, but that must lay down standard rules for defining professions — and not professions — that should be framed as quick wear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u421	Mr Fernando José, the Bureau records the registration of Mr João Pinho de Almeida to make requests for clarification. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u422	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very simple question, even because I have little time. He said that there was a working group working on this matter since the beginning of the year. As he pointed out that this working group is multidisciplinary - it involves several ministries and involves social partners - in order to be able to examine its work, the way it is organized and its objectives, he asked for the order that created this working group, to be able to know who it is and what its objectives are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u423	Mr Fernando José, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u424	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida, what I have said, and I repeat again, is that this process is taking place in conjunction with various ministries. No one spoke in a working group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u425	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u426	You have the floor for a second speech, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are coming to the end of this debate and there is something that I think is important here. Once again, as has been mentioned by virtually all parliamentary groups, we are debating a petition asking that a profession be considered to be worn out quickly. For moments, when PSD deputy Fernanda Velez talked about the studies, I thought she would talk about studies on the impact on the health and family life of these workers. Now, there are studies of these for many other professions, which we have already discussed here, and for all these years both the PS, as the PSD and the CDS did not want to give these workers their fair claim. But that would be too much to ask. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that there is a lot of talk about concern. We hear phrases such as "we have concern, but...", "we understand, but...". I'm asking, ladies and gentlemen. Members: which parties are putting forward proposals in this area? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]] For our part, we do not give up on these workers. And I'm also asking...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u428	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u429	I shall conclude, Mr President. I ask : if they do not want appreciable solutions, as in the meantime they can continue to address these workers without having a single answer other than that of « there cannot be appreciable solutions, there must be working groups ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u430	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u431	Mrs. Members, there must be responsibility for the statements made here, and this applies to PS, PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u432	It is therefore closed this point of our agenda and, with it, our afternoon of work. Before giving an account of the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, you have the floor of Mr Nelson Peralta to proceed with the reading of the dossier. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u433	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 714 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 715 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) and 716 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) and Bill No. 566 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-14.u434	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall take note of the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, which will take place at 3 p.m. of the first point is the joint discussion of the Bills Nos 487 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Approves the legal regime applicable to the donation of food for the purpose of social solidarity and measures to combat food waste, 537 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates measures to promote the flow of food goods from small agriculture and family farming and creates a simplified public regime for the acquisition and distribution of food goods from small and medium-sized national agriculture and livestock and family farming, combating food waste and 544 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — National survey on food waste in Portugal. of the second point is the joint discussion of the draft resolution No 638 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Reversion of the privatization of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA, of the Bills Nos 517 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the CTT public control recovery regime and 520 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Establishs the regime for the nationalization of CTTs and draft resolution No 242 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure a decisive participation of the State in the social capital of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA. The third point deals with the debate of draft resolution No 572 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government a mobilising initiative for interinstitutional debate and wider public hearing on the implementation of the European Union Recovery Plan ( Next Generation EU ), the Partnership Agreement and the Strategic Plan of the CAP ( PEPAC) 2021 - 2027, within the framework of the consequences of Covid-19. of the fourth point is the discussion of the draft resolution No 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Commitment to cooperation for the social and solidarity sector. Finally, the fifth item on our agenda is the discussion of Bills Nos 64 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals adaptability and hourly bank mechanisms, in group modalities and by collective regulation ( Sixteenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), 65 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures effective compliance with working hours and reconciliation of work with family life and repeals individual adaptability mechanisms ( Tenth sixth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ), 533 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — eliminates the group hours bank and by group agreement, individual and group adaptability and strengthens the monitoring of working hours ( Tenth sixth amendment to the Labour Code ), 534 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Approves measures guaranteeing the reconciliation of work with family life and greater professional stability for the purpose of the sixth amendment to the Labour Code, the tenth amendment to the General Law on Public Works, and the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April and 539 / XIV / 2. a ( IL) — Restores the individual hourly bank ( Sixteenth Amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February which approved the Labour Code ). I thank all the ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Bureau, the collaboration they have given in this long session and I wish everyone and everyone to continue on a good day. It is thus closed our sitting. [[It was 20 hours and 27 minutes.]]
