ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start our work. The agenda results from a PS marking for discussion of Law Projects Nos 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Other provisions of the electoral laws for the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the bodies of the local authorities, the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum and the legal regime of the electoral census, extending the vote in mobility and simplifying and uniforming cross-border provisions for the execution of electoral and referendum acts, 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Harmonizes the Electoral Law for the European Parliament with the provisions in force in the Portuguese legal order on the loss of mandate of holders of elective positions and 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for voters to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, due to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment, in general, of the draft resolution No 675 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of the consolidation of the electoral procedural legislation and also, in general, of the Bill No 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Extends the vote in advance to voters who are in compulsory confinement in the context of a situation of serious public health risk, by the twenty-second amendment to the Elections Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May, to the tenth amendment to the Elections Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Act No 14 / 79 of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election for the holders of the local authorities' organs, to the seventh amendment to Law No 15 -A / 98 of 3 April (Organic Law of the Referendum), to the first amendment to the legal regime of the regional referendum in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, approved by the Organic Law No 2 / 2015, of 12 February, and to the fourth amendment to the approved by the Act of 12 February, and to the fourth amendment to the Law of 24 August 2000, To open the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Organise free, fair and participating elections is the main mission of any democracy. More than the concrete result of each electoral act, it is the quality of the process and the legitimacy of it, through the high participation, which strengthens democratic institutions and ensures the continuity of the system, the alternance in the exercise of elective functions and the accountability and accountability of the electors. Together with freedom of the press, the right to suffrage is one of the indispensable pillars of the building of democracy. For this reason, the creation of conditions to reduce abstention, improve electoral procedures and extend the basis for the participation of voters has always been tasks considered as priority in the context of government action and the work of the electoral authorities. In this context, it is in order to improve the conditions for the organization of electoral procedures and to meet the challenges they may face, which the Socialist Party today puts to the consideration of the House of Commons four initiatives on these matters. In the first place, of course, the ruling agenda of the Socialist Party is aimed at giving possible and exceptional legislative response to the challenges that the COVID-19 pandemic places on the organization of the electoral act for the Presidency of the Republic, as we will have the opportunity to develop. In view of the possibility of having an extended debate on this subject, we believe it is appropriate, and even desirable, to bring to the discussion a number of other matters which have already been explored and identified in legislative processes and issues before Parliament, trying to strengthen the quality of the system's architecture. As regards the exceptional regime that we propose to apply to the presidential elections of 2021, first of all, and I think that in a consensual way, it will not be alarmist to say that it is to be expected that citizens can perceive risks in the movement to polls, leading to the risk that the electoral act may be characterized by less electoral participation than usual, especially among groups or citizens included in older age groups, in risk groups, and that due to mobility restrictions imposed by pandemic management, respiratory label, the social distancing in force and their own health problems, they may find themselves less likely to exercise the right to vote. The low trend in the elections in France a few months ago, the uncertainties that come to us from the ongoing electoral processes in the United States of America demonstrate that it is necessary to have ongoing measures and initiatives designed to overcome the difficulties, advising the legislator not to be insensitive to this need. The elections for the Presidency of the Republic, to be held as usual in January next year, will take place in a period of special sensitivity in the evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic, paying attention to its temporal coincidence with the usual period of greater incidence of influenza virus and others of a seasonal nature. in this sense, the next suffrage for the Presidency of the Republic must be of particular attention, exceptional and unique measures in relation to the voting arrangements provided for in the electoral law today. In addition to the sanitary measures to be adopted in the organization of the present electoral act, the use of masks, personal protective equipment, the availability of disinfectants, the guarantee of social distance, the adoption of respiratory labelling measures, it is also important to enhance, within what is feasible and possible, the realization of the equal treatment of voters, creating a mechanism for the exercise of early voting of those to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, which is not in hospital establishment because in this case we already have rules in place that offer answers. This means ensuring not only the right of such voters to participate but also to create an additional climate and context of security and confidence so that other voters can move to the voting venue and polls on election day. In brief, the master beams of the proposed regime are based on five key ideas. First, it is a faculty available to voters in a situation of compulsory preventive or already active confinement, by the determination of the health authorities and not in hospital establishment. Secondly, confinement must be carried out at the location where the elector is identified, so as not to overburden the electoral administration. Thirdly, there is a prior registration of those concerned through a platform to be made available by the electoral administration services. Fourthly, municipal officials are transferred to the place where the elector is in custody, with the application of the common procedures already known on early voting, with guarantee of the rights of applications and also with the adoption of precautionary and security measures for the staff who travel in this task. Finally, it is also necessary to ensure that the ballots are kept with the ballots for a period of safety before delivery to the polling stations for election day. Despite this specific regime and the strengthening of means, we must be aware that it will not be possible to reach all those who, even with the adoption of these measures, may find themselves in a situation of confinement. There are several vicissitudes of life that often prevent a citizen from moving to the polls and voting and, obviously, those resulting from the COVID-19 will not all necessarily have an answer through this initiative. However, if we can increase quality and participation, we will already be providing a good service to democracy. In view of the innovative nature of these measures and proposals, the coming weeks of debate in the specialty will be very important for collecting elements from the entities invited to participate in the legislative process, improving and adding what is necessary to ensure the robustness of this amendment of the law. In addition, and in the face of other proposals today, including the PSD on the same subject, there is also the PS Parliamentary Group's willingness to meet and build a consensus on an exceptional and decisive issue for the realization of the electoral act, always ensuring two principles that seem to us to be insurmountable: the effectiveness of the measures to be taken and the preservation of the safety of all those involved, from the voters to the electoral agents. Of course, there will also be room to consider the adequacy of the temporary framework of measures, since we are legislated for the presidential elections, but in which the year 2021 may not yet mean the end and the overcoming of the pandemic and, in this sense, it is also a debate that seems to us to have to be held in the field of specialty. In addition, as I said, we also take the opportunity to bring some other transversal measures to electoral legislation, introducing corrections to the law already known and previously discussed in Parliament without having the opportunity to approve, and during this debate we will have the opportunity to develop in other interventions, including optimizing the number of voters per table or removing references already obsolete to the number of voters and still in electoral law. I stress, however, that it is also at the service of ensuring more conditions for the execution of the electoral act: the extension of the operation of the early vote on mobility, which has proved a very successful formula in the elections for the European Parliament and for the Assembly of the Republic, allowing many voters, which are not available to move to the voting place on the day of the elections, who could exercise their right to vote in advance, without prejudiceing their exercise of the right to vote. The draft law we present is intended not only to be constituted tables in district capitals but, in all municipalities, to extend the proximity to voters and also to the ease with which those who will have to use the mobility vote can fulfill their right of suffrage. Finally, let us also bring two other subjects, which I mean we will have the opportunity to develop during the morning: one on the long-suffering attempt to consolidate electoral legislation, to simplify and clarify the procedures and regulatory acts that regulate it, and also on the election of Members to the European Parliament, seeking to correct a fault detected in the past legislature in how to ensure respect for the will of voters in the face of political party changes of those who represent or those who have been elected to the European Parliament. In conclusion, although motivated especially by the urgency of the issues posed by the presidential election, it is indeed a debate that can help clarify important points of our electoral legislation. Soon we will celebrate 200 years of the first elections of modernity in Portugal, held in the December 1820 years, and it must also be borne in mind that, in 45 years of electoral performance, Portuguese democracy has always been at the height of the responsibility it brings to its institutions, always offering reliable, speedy results, without controversy, based on an efficient electoral administration and the collaboration of many thousands of citizens in the front line of the polls. It is to all of them, those who are in the polls every Sunday, to all the officials of the electoral administration, who are dedicated to this intervention and this work, which we hope will help contribute to ensure that their first-line civic mission is carried out safely and with the confidence that we have been accustomed to over 45 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u3	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u4	Mr President, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the Socialist Party, in this debate, essentially raises two problems: one that has to do with the situation in which we are, with the pandemic situation in which we find ourselves and the fact that we have very short-term elections for the Presidency of the Republic, and one that has to do with other adjustments to the electoral procedure to which I will refer when I make my speech on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group. But the question I wanted to ask you is whether the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party do not understand that there would be an advantage to separate these two problems. In other words, we have procedural amendments that will have to be introduced in all electoral laws—in fact, the Socialist Party even presents a draft resolution for this work to be done at a later stage, I presume—but we have a pressing problem that it is necessary to take exceptional measures to ensure that these presidential elections take place in the health situation in which we are expected to meet again at the end of January, February, when the elections are held. We hope to be in a better situation than we are today, but we don't know. It is therefore imperative that exceptional measures must be taken to ensure that these elections are conducted in the best possible way and that the number of voters deprived of the right to vote due to the pandemic is as low as possible. We must therefore try to find the best solutions so that the greatest number of citizens who want to exercise their right can do so. I wonder whether the Socialist Party does not consider that we should now solve this problem for the presidents and the problems that arise and that make this election an entirely exceptional choice, leaving for the time being the adaptations with a definitive character — as much as one can say in law — for another set of electoral laws. It is that there is a rule that we have all taken up for many years, that there should not be a change in electoral procedures on the eve of elections or with forthcoming elections. Therefore, the amendments we have to make to the electoral procedure are those that are strictly dictated by the exceptional situation in which we are. Mr Delgado Alves, I ask you whether the Socialist Party does not consider that we should clearly separate the two things, i.e. take an exceptional action now, for the presidential elections, and resolve with time and with weight the other issues of the electoral procedure that refer to the other electoral acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u5	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the Bureau has registered another inscription to ask for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u6	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u7	Once you want to answer together, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Cerqueira to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that I am glad that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves soon had the concern, in his initial speech, that a number of adjustments would have to be made. Mr President, as we are talking about various diplomas, I begin by referring to the draft resolution. the PSD seems good, because all legislation when extravagant and too shared sometimes leads to a lack of legal certainty in consultation. Therefore, the PSD is in favour, but not abdicating, in this regard, the publication of the diploma, in spite of everything, so that this certainty and access of all citizens is also guaranteed. I would also like to leave a note for this subject to be dealt with under 1. the Commission, because it is really the Commission that more preparation and more know-how has to make these adjustments and to follow up this kind of hard, difficult, slow and very systematic task so that work does not lead to more complications, as has already happened in the past. With regard to the various diplomas, which, although they are subdivided into several, ultimately correspond to the proposal presented by the PSD, going to the various elements, I would like to leave some notes. As far as civil identification is concerned — in fact, in the last debate that we had about the Local Authorities Act, the honourable Member raised the issue of civil identification — strangely, and we think that, for a while, hoping that there would be a willingness to change, the criteria are not uniform in all the proposals. However, I would like to know whether the PS will then be able to change the proposals in the sense of the civil identification criteria to be strictly the same in all the diplomas, under the penalty of, instead of the desire that the PSD has to simplify, we will end up complicating, once again, with proposals that ultimately do not meet all the same requirements for the same act. Mr President, with regard to our amendment to the European Parliament, in particular for the causes of loss of mandate, it also follows an opinion requested by the Land Party Movement in 2015, because of the history, known to all, of the Euro MP at Seaside Pinto, for changing political party and what the consequences are. In fact, our system has a gap, but, Mr, the proposal also ends up in our own view, failing to respond to the conclusions and the problems which Mr, in 2015, referred to in the opinion he has drawn up and which I shall now share. At the time he said in the conclusions of his opinion that I read: « Law in the European Union does not confer as a cause of the loss of office of Members to the European Parliament the inclusion in party other than that by which the Member was elected». He further states that: "Portuguese domestic law provides for that clause of loss of mandate in an express manner only for Members of the Assembly of the Republic and all the elected members of the national bodies of Latin America, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and the Statute of the Members of the European Parliament. Do not keep on seeking. ” It happens that this does not happen in the Statute of European Members, i.e. this is not foreseen, and now, in the proposal, the PS understands that the PS forgets — we assume that it is forgotten — the following is the first reference to Law No 114 / 2011 (the Statute of Deputies), and now it is intended to amend the Electoral Law to the European Parliament. So it seems to us that there is an incongruence here that has in fact to be changed. In addition to this incongruity which clearly seems to us that it is not, as it is fundamental, which entity would, nationally, be responsible, let us say, for the communication of this loss of mandate. This is completely omitted. Under the conditions in which it is, it seems to us that the diploma does not actually enshrine what it seems to be intended to enshrine and therefore we hope that these fundamental changes will be made in the field of expertise. Finally, because time is urgent, with regard to the mobility vote, the PSD also has a proposal on the mobility vote, but it seems to us that the PS forgets two elements, which, in fact, refers here, i.e., forgets, on the one hand, the public health issue and, contrary to the PSD proposal, there are no rules that ensure the health and integrity of the camera president or his representative in the event of a mobility vote. On the other hand, there is another factor that seems fundamental to us and that has not been taken into account, i.e. limits the vote to the area of the council. Now, we all know that the current reality is not compatible with this principle, because the cases of isolation in non-hospital establishment may be outside the headquarters of the municipality, may be in the neighbouring council, and with this it is preventing the vote of that citizen from situations that are foreign to him, in which he has no choice; he had the chance, according to the proposal of the PS, to be in the neighbouring council and can no longer vote because he is not in the area of his council. We understand that this limitation cannot happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u10	... and, in accordance with the PSD proposal, the possibility of enlargement through communication, as stated in our proposal, for the vote to be effective for all. Therefore, these are our great doubts which I would like to see answered by the honourable Member. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u11	To reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions. Mr António Filipe, we agree that there is a greater urgency in relation to the diploma on the presidential election and therefore, of course, we have every willingness to give priority to that diploma. However, there is also in the diploma of the transversal amendments and, let us say, as definitive as the Law permits, as well as you have noted, some matters that would be useful to implement already in the presidential elections, in which you can make sense of any anticipation, namely the maximum number of voters per table and the matter of the vote in advance, since this also allows fewer voters to go to the polls on the same day. Therefore, in this respect it may be necessary to bear in mind, from now on, that this amendment is finally adopted, without prejudice to, of course, the process and the timetable that will continue to be, by definition, others.It is also important to bear in mind, and not wanting to create pressure in the Chamber, until, I think, the pressure already exists, it is essential that this diploma be approved before the beginning of the budgetary procedure, in order to give time for the process of promulgation, anticipation and knowledge by all the electoral agents to be made in due time. For this reason too, priority and separation of water is important. Mrs Emília Cerqueira, thank you very much for your questions and, trying to be brief, I would like to tell you that, on the first question, concerning the draft consolidation resolution, this is in some way almost implicit and integrated in the idea that it is a work within the framework of 1. the Commission, in conjunction with other Commissions, of course, but essentially has been at the centre of 1. the Commission. Our idea was always that, but we can put it in an express way, if necessary. We don't see any difficulty there. As regards the issue of civil identification, the intention is, once again, to cross-sectionally catch up with all the rough situations that are expected. This is an exercise that is easily done today with a search mechanism in documents; if any has escaped, I think we can do this 'line fishing' and identify those who are missing. There is no difficulty there either. On this point I now leave a note on a legislative act which the PSD amends in its proposal and in respect of which no one would say caution but at least some additional protocol and institutional comfort we should have: the regime of the referendum of the Autonomous Region of Azores. It is true that it is not a matter of reserve of initiative as the electoral law is, but being an initiative initiated by the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region, I think it would be more cautious not to be moving into it without a weighting and intervention worthy of regional autonomy, and for this reason we will always have specific electoral right in the autonomous regions, because of those who are on reserve of initiative; this is not the case, but still it seems to us that institutional treatment should be the same. On the issue of the European Parliament, we have made these two reflections. As for the appropriate location, it is questionable whether the Statute of Members, since it is not a statute either, is a statute by reference, or in the electoral law. It seemed to us that, in view of the context of this debate, which is about electoral legislation, it would make sense to include this link in the electoral law of Members of the European Parliament, but I am not at least shocked by the choice by the Statute of Members of the European Parliament and therefore also the opening up to amend one or another diploma is complete. Finally, on the subject of the entity, the omission is intentional: we have a thought made about which it could potentially be, but I think it is more interesting that a process can be done, which is not as urgent as any of the others, involving entities that may potentially be identified as the national entity that determines the loss of mandate. In our view, it seems to us that the most obvious thing is perhaps the Constitutional Court, that is to say, for judicial intervention, but this will probably also involve changing the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court in order to provide for a specific process to decree this loss of mandate, which is more complex than just the general statement we wanted to make today. Basically, it is not a forgetfulness, it is an intentional omission so that this entity can be identified in the debate. Another option could be the National Elections Commission, but it seems much more appropriate to us that it is a judicial body to take a decision with this gravity, which is the loss of mandate, like the other cases, such as the mandates of the Members of the Assembly of the Republic. Thank you very much for the questions, and I hope that the debate will continue to work as a specialist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u13	To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mr. Hugo Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2020 brought us a reality for which none of us, at the present time, was prepared or even able to anticipate as soon as possible. Everything is different today, because of the large circulation of people around the world, innocent individuals have transported with them, to their countries or to other countries, the notorious coronary virus and COVID-19 disease, and with this transmission the mortality rates have become worrying. Everything is different to the point of all of us having been forced to change routines or social behaviors, in terms of strengthening the capacity of the National Health Service, providing it with more equipment, when they were previously deemed sufficient. It is the struggle of peoples for survival! There is a confrontation between man and himself, his conduct and the forced need to protect oneself, also safeguarding others. The times are about fighting this epidemic, but without forgetting that on the horizon we are not exempt from being all plagued by other epidemics. Man has come to have an intrusive relationship in nature, which, by disrespecting his ancestral balances, leads to our actions necessarily promoting a consequence. over the past few months this Parliament has approved significant legislative interventions aimed at responding to the new social and public health challenges, to the economic situation and to a new way of living, and thus it seems necessary to continue to be until the infamous vaccine or effective treatment for COVID-19 is finally achieved. In the coming days, Portugal will enter a new extended electoral cycle and all this will happen in the context of the new coronavirus and COVID-19 disease. The PSD, realizing the emerging difficulties of this reality, raised a question to the Government at the end of July, questioning whether any initiative would be being prepared so that any citizen subject to a period of quarantine or sick with COVID-19 could exercise their fundamental right to vote. Emerging challenges should not allow the radical ablation of rights and in a proportionality judgment competent sovereignty bodies should take the necessary, appropriate and proportionate initiatives. There must also be a solution to the right to vote that answers to this new reality that we face. Recognizing that this Parliament's electoral competence is, we could not, however, ignore that the contributions and knowledge on the pandemic situation of the government and the different electoral authorities with which it is going to dialogue could be relevant. Having returned these months without having received an answer, the PSD had to move forward with its own initiative, the first one presented in this Parliament, which could respond to the forthcoming elections. In this way, we seek, together with other forecasts, such as the vote of the prisoners or of the people who have been detained today, to draw up a proportionate, necessary and appropriate measure that allows the exercise of this magnanimous right to participate in the construction of democracy through the exercise of the right to vote. The PSD project does not, however, ignore that other pandemics may arise in the future and therefore we choose to enshrine the same solution in different electoral laws. It is recalled that the pandemic risk does not only cloud the next presidential election, because even before this moment or immediately and before the 2021 city elections, nothing prevents intermediate elections or local referendums from being marked. In this way, the way forward for Parliament must, in our view, be more transversal and stable, without prejudice to the improvement or legislative improvement or concepts that are required by the need for legal and electoral certainty. It is also noted that the proposal advocated by the PSD is based on a standard that, for that to be applied, lacks a basic assumption, i.e. that there is a serious risk to public health recognized by the health authority. If so, using the advance voting mechanism, with a pre-registration of up to 7 days before the electoral act, one or more teams consisting of elements of the municipality, delegates of applications, the security forces and the health authority should travel to the home of each of the voters subject to a period of compulsory confinement because they are ill, infected or in an active surveillance situation. In our proposal, health safety measures are taken in contact with confined or sick voters and for the transport or disinfection of ballots, according to the best recommendations of the health authorities. And let me point out that this is a distinguishing element of our project. There are also changes in the number of voters per voting assembly, which fall to 1000 voters. It is a measure which, by extending the number of assemblies itself, promotes the social distancing of voters and the speed of the voting process. In addition, the principles relating to the civil identification document were updated and already in the previous legislative session it had been perceived that they lacked revision. The PSD also proposes the re-publication of diplomas, without prejudice to other efforts taken by Parliament in the area of consolidation of electoral laws, because we believe that the importance of updated and compact legal documents is essential for the informed exercise of the democratic process. At every moment, each citizen must know exactly what the law is in force, avoiding the legislative dispersion that hinders that knowledge. Finally, it is worth recalling that several opinions were requested from external entities about our bill. We highlight the position of the National Elections Commission, which characterizes the PSD initiative as « recognisedly commendable ». We highlight the position of the Advocates'Order, which considers the PSD project to be « very timely ». We also highlight the conclusions of the High Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which states that it does not appear « any question, from a constitutional point of view, which deserves particular attention ». The PSD therefore understands that, if the project is approved today, it runs the parliamentary process, improved in the specialty, with the extended contribution of all parties, this project can become a law of the Republic. And, if so, we will have done our part, promoting the framing of voters in quarantine or with COVID-19, or the target of any other future pandemic in the construction of the democratic process. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u15	I would like to inform the plenary that we already have the quorum required for the vote. You now have the floor for an intervention, the Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the proposers on this initiative, which, in fact, has contributed to more Portuguese having the opportunity to vote in this difficult period for all of us to go through. If you will allow me, and without obviously calling into question the authority and freedom of this House to legislate on this matter, I would like to make two general comments on the proposals. On the one hand, with regard to the Socialist Party's proposal, and obviously I am talking about the issue of exceptional legislation in relation to patients subject to compulsory confinement, I think that it should be maintained beyond the presidential elections, that is, it should be applied as long as the pandemic lasts and not only for the presidential elections, we think that we will probably not have the pandemic situation resolved by October next year, unfortunately. With regard to the PSD project and the significant change it has in relation to the PS project, with regard to the electoral capacity of those confined outside its area of censusing, I just wanted to draw attention to the difficulties of practical implementation of the standard, in the perspective of the electoral administration. And why? Because the inscription is made between the 7. the 8th day, the vote shall be between the 4th. o and 5. the day before the day of the election, then we have the quarantine of the votes and we have to move them to the location of the voter's registration. The problem lies — imagining — in relation to a citizen who is, for any reason, on the islands and who is held and confined there, being inscribed on the continent. I do not know how it would be possible to make such a transfer of votes within a reasonable period of time. The same is said at any other point in the country. Therefore, a difficult logistics is needed, in which we obviously did not think, because we do not know how many will be confined on that date. Therefore, it is not possible to make any evaluation. But, however, we admit that it is likely that thousands of citizens are in this situation and will therefore be difficult to implement in practice. However, if this is the Assembly's decision, of course, we will do everything we can to comply with the legislation that is being adopted. On the other hand, and I am still allowed, from a generic perspective, to the breakdown of voting tables for 1000 voters, means that we will have more 2793 seats to fill, which means that more 13 965 citizens will be required to participate in the electoral process. Obviously, this helps in time of pandemic, because, indeed, social distance will be better secured, since there will be fewer voters for each section of the vote, but it implies substantial logistical reinforcement from the point of view of the electoral administration. The Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration, together with the Ministry of Finance, has already raised the costs of these measures and would say that from a financial point of view the issue will be assured and, from a logistical point of view, the electoral administration will also ensure compliance with the legislation to be adopted by this House. With regard to the advance vote, in fact, we have also moved from 29 voting tables to 386 voting tables, keeping the logic conciliated, and there we will also provide everything necessary to ensure that the electoral process is obviously complied with within the rules that this House is adopting. I would also like to refer to the honourable Members. Members who have already met with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias to discuss these issues and health issues in the electoral process. In the Keys referendum on traffic on the Roman bridge of the city, the results were positive and we are in conversation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias to, in fact, optimize the situation, ensuring not only the public health rules, which are underlying this pandemic period, but also creating confidence in voters for the exercise of the right to vote. I would therefore say that there will be no problematic situation there, at least from the point of view of the electoral administration. I would also like to take into account the analysis of the projects I have been reading, to make two suggestions. One of them is in relation to the expiry date for the registration of citizens abroad and which are inactive, which today is 12 months; therefore, at the end of 12 months, they leave the electoral books. With today's difficulty in renewing documents in national terms, and even more so for citizens who are abroad, for the most part, I would suggest that Article 27. the Legal Regime of Electoral Recensation was also considered in the debate, where speciality, in order to eventually extend the expiration period of registration to 24 months. Not that, and admitting that the issue will not be put, in the calculations of the Secretary-General and of the electoral administration, means that, for the presidents, 124 000 citizens will no longer vote. Through the SIGRE ( Information System and Management of Electoral Recensation ), these institutions have access to the number of voters whose registration is active and to the numbers of those who will cease to be. It was therefore estimated that 124 000 citizens will no longer have active electoral capacity. To maintain this situation, doing nothing, the average that is planned monthly is about 8000. I would therefore say that it is a significant number of citizens who are abroad and who would no longer have an active electoral capacity, so I would leave this House with a reflection on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u17	The Bureau shall register a Member to make requests for clarification. To this end, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Internal Administration, first of all, thank you for your intervention, which has brought you to the debate which, if necessary, may be asked in the specialty some relevant issues and which this Parliament should, if necessary, consider. And since what is at stake here is a new and challenging issue for our country, in particular the exercise of the right to vote of those who are confined under the COVID-19, I would like to ask you two questions. First, and since the Directorate-General for Health has not yet delivered an opinion on these diplomas for Parliament — it will probably still do so — he asked whether there is already any evaluation by the Ministry of Internal Administration regarding the procedures for disinfecting ballots. When we talk about taking votes to the home or elsewhere where people are quarantined or, if any, contaminated, what is the certainty that we can have and what is the security that we can provide that these ballot papers, after an appropriate disinfection process, which I do not know which is, but, eventually, the specialist authorities on this subject can better judge — when placed on each voting table, in fact, are in sufficient security conditions for all to be calm, particularly the members of the voting tables? I would also like to ask whether or not the Government is thinking about providing individual means of protection for the members of the voting tables and, eventually, of the different teams that will pick up the votes at the home of people in quarantine, contaminated or suffering from the disease COVID-19. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u19	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u20	Mr President, Mr Carneiro, with regard to the disinfection of ballot papers, of course, this will be done. I cannot tell you how, because it is not my specialty, but these issues are being discussed with the Directorate-General for Health and will therefore be addressed in due course. With regard to the means of individual protection, what was combined with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias was that this would be a responsibility of the Secretary-General and, therefore, of the electoral administration. And it will be the electoral administration to provide protection equipment to the members of the table, as well as alcohol-gel and, finally, all that is necessary to ensure hygiene and safety in the act of voting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u21	Let's continue with the interventions. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u22	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The Liberal Initiative will enable these draft amendments and harmonization of electoral laws to be able, in the process of specialization, to present their proposals for improvement. Having said that, it is appropriate to make two repairs to two of the diplomas presented by the PS. Many of the persons in compulsory confinement will be older, eventually informed excluded, so it is not acceptable that, in the exceptional voting regime in advance in the election of the President of the Republic, no alternatives are envisaged to the pre-registration of these voters via the Internet. On the other hand, the proposal for an electoral law for the European Parliament provides for the loss of a Member's term of office when he changes parties. It is ironic that the PS, which so criticised the NAP proposal on the Governor of the Banco de Portugal for this ad nom, would now come with this proposal, which would apply to a single case, precisely one Member of the NAP. I don't know if it's coincidence if it's incoherence. I leave a second note, already ironic, to say that this kind of provisions reinforces partycracy more than democracy. The parties are essential in a democracy, in fact, but they are no more than citizens and parties cannot want to have the monopoly of political representation. We believe, moreover, that this Parliament had an obligation to revisit the electoral system as a whole. Although PS and PSD want to make it difficult for them, the candidatures of citizens' movements to the authorities are still possible and it makes no sense not to discuss the same possibility in the legislatures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u23	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, it makes no sense not to discuss the same possibility in legislation, something easily compatible with a system of uninominal circles, as the Liberal Initiative defends. We are not afraid of democracy and we are very suspicious of those who find themselves their sole owner or guardian. We therefore defend the open and timely discussion of these issues. It is much better than going to cry for television on election nights because abstention has again risen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u25	The Bureau has an inscription to ask for clarification, but you do not have time to answer. Even so, and knowing that you will not be able to get an answer, you have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u26	Mr President, if you do not have an immediate response, I will certainly have an answer later. The request for clarification is very short. Perhaps Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo knows something we do not know about the possibility of registering the former PAN Euro MP in some other party. I don't know if it's an invitation you're sending to someone this way. But let it be absolutely clear: there is no retroactive application of the law. It is not ad hommem and therefore would never have applied to the current mandate, because it was not scheduled at the time of the election. What is detected is a gap in electoral law, which must be corrected, because in fact it is not acceptable for citizens to choose a particular party and then see this result frustrated. There is no question of the passage of a non-registered Member, because this does not necessarily distort the electoral outcome, transferring one party to another the electoral participation. It is therefore only at issue to ensure that voters are respected in the choice they make, has no retroactive effects and therefore is not adhum, so I hope that you will remain calm about this concern. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u27	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first word of the Left Block in this debate is for widespread acceptance of the ideas and proposals that have been put forward. It seems to us, on the one hand, incomprehensible at a time when physical distance is called upon and respect for security distances, which, for example, remained at the voting tables, the same intensity in the number of people who generated rows in previous elections. This would be incomprehensible and would demonstrate that we had not guarded this situation, so it seems to us that this logistics should be reconsidered. It is the least we can do in this context. in the same way, in relation to what has already been discussed, although it is not in any of the legislative initiatives because it is more related to operational materials, the existence of individual safety devices and hand disinfection material, in a context where a pen or a spherograph is used to make a cross on a ballot paper, should be guarded. From that point of view, this is also something of the most trivial sensitivity to place in the concerns for future elections. It also seems to me that no one will disagree with the need to safeguard civic rights and electoral participation to whom, for reasons of decision which is not theirs, for example a health authority, is in quarantine or in prophylactic isolation. From that point of view, caution should be taken in the same way, as is currently being exercised in the various elections, the rights of those who, for example, are incarcerated. It's a similar right. It seems to us that the same rules that are currently used for early voting, for those who are in hospital stay, can be used for those who are in prophylactic isolation or quarantine. It doesn't help to invent much here, because every time we make up, as a general rule, we make mistakes. For example, the proposal, which seems to me extemporaneous, of the PSD, that this advance vote has a battalion of people moving to the houses of each or each one to vote, which obliges even — that is what is envisaged in the proposal — that two members of security forces accompany the president of the chamber or the person himself, seems absurd to us. It doesn't make sense! It is more than overzealous, it is extemporaneous for that which is upon the table. Now that the right to vote for those who are in hospital and for those who are in prophylactic isolation or quarantine is taken care of in the same way, it also seems to us that it is absolutely valid and fair. I therefore conclude this speech and our participation in the debate by saying that there are generally no differences in these matters. It therefore seems to us that this debate will be deeper and more fruitful in the field, even incorporating some of the suggestions that have already been received in the various opinions that have reached the Commission and even hearing, in more detail, the views of the Government, who has the executive knowledge of this matter, and the Assembly of the Republic may benefit from it. It seems to me, but this is the choice of the proposers, which we should not be taking up a whole morning of debate in the Assembly of the Republic with these diplomas, because there are other diplomas that we might be discussing. Finally, the Socialist Party wanted to make a legislative agenda, to occupy a whole morning of debate, when, as I said, there are no major differences in general, and the speciality of committee work will make sense of this time so that we can quickly get these answers. I leave a final note, which relates to the fact that this specific legislation for those in confinement is punctual and therefore extraordinary, as regards the pandemic period, or may exist in the future, for other possible pandemics or other situations. from the part of the Left Block, it seems to us that, regardless of the pandemic period, when there is a decision by a health officer that obliges the isolation of a particular person, the right of civic and electoral participation should not be denied. Therefore, from this point of view, we have the willingness to discuss the temporary enlargement of these measures, therefore considering them on the same footing as the existence of the early vote, for example, for those in hospital space. It is thus ensured that it is not by decision of a medical authority or by response to a public health problem that there will be a subtraction of a fundamental right, a right that we consider to be the greatest in democracy, that of electoral participation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u29	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have a request for clarification. To this end, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to clarify something that has been said about our project and that has to do with this battalion of people who go to each voter's house. Indeed, our spirit, when we thus consecrated the norm, was eventually that of having several teams circulating in the space of a council and going to the house of each of these people. The transition between a home and the next will necessarily imply that some of these people have to proceed with disinfection methods. Therefore, in order not to delay this voting, circulation and voting process, by placing more people in the mirror, we can make teams that, in the same van or in the same means of transport, can move from home to home. We understand that this is not an absolutely fundamental issue and therefore we can review it within what is considered to be adjusted, in view of the needs we have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u31	You have the floor to answer, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u32	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Carneiro, I appreciate the clarification. I believe that this takes place until the bill presented by the PSD, which will drink some of your thinking to the early voting regime, in the same way that the PS does. I believe that this choice is correct, i.e. that there may be several teams in the field at the same time through the delegation of the powers of the camera president in other people, in councillors or in elements of the body of officials of the municipal chamber. In this context, what we found to be extemporaneous was to demand that each of these teams have two elements of the security forces. We have found no justification for this because, on the one hand, at present, this is not provided for in the law of early voting, for example, for those in hospital space, and on the other hand, we have not been able to see — except for bad reasons and I will not even list them, until it does not bring any use to the debate — two elements of the security forces are indicated for each of these teams. It seems to us too much, it makes no sense to us. Now, as the honourable Member has said — and I am recording this opening — we will have the possibility of correcting these edges so that we can achieve a goal that seems common to all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u33	The next intervention is the NAP. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing amendments to electoral legislation for the second time in three months, which, in our view, ends up being symptomatic of an organized functioning of what is a central block. What happened? First, they tried to find ways to divide power and, only now, to discuss these issues. We must remember, in this context, because in our democracy the process that is being carried out in the CCDRs will indeed become distorted, in which the places were first distributed, and one day new competences will be passed. The same has happened in the amendment to electoral legislation, in which the powers of the parties of this central bloc have been and have been strengthened, through the approval of a law that squats, affects and clearly affects the rights of the groups of citizens and of the citizens of the electorate and of the smaller parties, and only now is discussed what is really necessary, i.e. the adaptation of electoral legislation to the context of the health crisis. Therefore, the adaptation of electoral legislation to the context of a health crisis is obviously very pressing and relevant and, to confirm it, it will be sufficient to see what happened in the local elections in France, in which the confinement caused by the health crisis forced a postponement of the second round of the electoral act, which caused the abstention to rise in the arrow, still leading to the problems of legitimacy of the candidates and the elected candidates. In fact, our electoral legislation is not designed for a context of health crisis and therefore this surgical change is urgent so that it will not happen exactly what happened in France. from the NAP, we alerted to this problem as early as June, when we discussed here the amendment to the Election Act of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. in this sense, obviously, we welcome the proposals, either of the Socialist Party or of the Social Democratic Party, which are brought today. We understand that there are several important proposals in these bills, which we will follow because they aim to adapt electoral processes to this context of health crisis, allowing the exercise of a special advance vote to all voters and all voters who are in mandatory confinement or active surveillance, in the context of a serious situation for public health. But here are some alerts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot leave for the specialty. First of all, the regime of this advance vote should not, as the Socialist Party proposes, be an exceptional regime applicable only to the forthcoming presidential elections. There must be a regime clearly envisaged in electoral legislation, as the Social Democratic Party proposes, so that in the future, if a health crisis occurs, we may have legislation capable of facing without running after injury, as we are now doing. Secondly, we believe that we must take care to ensure a solution that, allowing the exercise of the right to vote, meets what is laid down in our Constitution, which, as regards the presidential elections, is peremptory to say that the vote must be present. In view of the fact that the proposed advance vote eventually takes an atypical form of voting by correspondence, in the field of specialty, it must be ensured that this face-to-faceness of the vote required by the Constitution is guaranteed in the solution to be found. Thirdly, we believe that we must ensure that this regime applies not only to persons in active surveillance or in confinement but also to risk groups that are particularly vulnerable and are identified, because people cannot be put at risk because of the exercise of their right. Fourthly, we must also not forget that digital literature and access to digital media do not exist in all voters and voters, especially in the elderly. Therefore, in the field of specialty, we must ensure that the request for early voting can also be made by telephone, so that there is an alternative to this proposal. Fifth and lastly, despite the kindness of the proposals from these parties, we would like to remember that the election process is forgotten. Therefore, with regard to electoral campaigns in the context of a health crisis, it would be important to anticipate the discussion of its implementation if an emergency state or disaster is declared. We will therefore follow up with all the proposals that contribute to a more fluid electoral process without congestion. This is the case, for example, with the breakdown of the voting sections, taking into account the reality of the respective municipalities. Another proposal that we consider positive is the one that points to the existence of an advance voting table in mobility in each municipality, instead of being in each district capital. We would also like to highlight two aspects whose discussion we believe is important in the field of expertise. The first concerns the working group that the Socialist Party here proposes to prepare a codification of electoral legislation. We understand that the proposal is positive, but it would also be time for a thorough reflection and debate on the introduction of the electronic vote. To finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u35	Mrs. Deputy, exactly. It really has to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u36	Exactly, Mr. President. Finally, there is the fact that the electronic vote obviously has risks, but we believe that this is a debate to be held. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u37	The next intervention is the Socialist Party. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: One of the bills that the Socialist Party here presents seeks to respond to a problem that occurred in the election of this Assembly of the Republic. This problem had to do with long and delayed rows in access to the exercise of the right to vote. The last election of the Assembly of the Republic coincided with the increase in the number of voters per vote table from 1000 to 1500 voters, with the new organization of the electoral books, and that was therefore the first test to the new organization of the electoral books, which were no longer published by number of voters to pass it in alphabetical order. In many voting tables, this led many voters to take more than half an hour in the row to be able to exercise the right to vote and others, even though they had just given up voting, feeling these problems, especially in the most urban parish in the country, due to the long-term waiting to which they were subjected by virtue of these two factors: the new organization of electoral books in alphabetical order and the increase in the number of voters, by table, from 1000 to 1500 voters. This is a situation that cannot be repeated. We have an obligation to change electoral laws so that this situation does not repeat itself. They were images incompatible with a modern democracy and our obligation, not only that of the government, but also that of the Assembly of the Republic, is to prevent that from happening. And if this happened outside a pandemic context, like the one we live today, it is easy to admit that this situation can worsen even more in a pandemic context, because the health protection measures of voters will introduce an even greater delay in access to the right to vote. For this reason, the Socialist Party bill not only proposes a reduction in the number of voters per vote table, from 1500 to 1000 voters, allowing fewer people to access the same voting tables—deployment has responded to this need—and it also creates a figure in the electoral laws, which do not exist to date, which is the organizational role that the fregetes have for many decades, which is essential and which it is fair to recognise in the electoral laws. Therefore, from our point of view, it is very important that this measure be adopted already for the presidential elections and for the subsequent elections, as a way of responding, too, to a need and contributing to a quality democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u39	Mr José Luís Ferreira, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents us today, for discussion, a set of initiatives to amend various electoral laws, as well as the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum, the legal regime of the electoral census and still presents us with a proposal to prepare for the consolidation of the electoral procedural legislation. The PSD, in turn, brings us a proposal that, in addition to amendments to the diplomas on these electoral laws, also proposes amendments to the Regional Referendum Legal Regime in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Now, in response to these proposals, the Greens divide this universe into two distinct sets. On the one hand, the proposals that aim to respond to problems caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, from the point of view of electoral participation, while this pandemic continues. On the other hand, a little on the basis of this situation, which we recognize, in fact, the need for measures to allow greater electoral participation, all the other proposals, both amendments to the electoral laws, but which have nothing to do with the pandemic situation, and also with regard to the preparation of the consolidation of the electoral law. And as a first note, I wanted to say that the Greens consider that they change electoral laws with virtually elections at the door, as is the case for the election to the Presidency of the Republic, it seems to us to be unhealthy and not recommended. That is, regardless of the content of the proposals themselves, regardless of the motivation of its authors, which can certainly be the best, within a few months of the realization of an important electoral act, such as the election for the Presidency of the Republic, is not, in our view, the right time for amendments to the electoral laws. As for the consolidation of the electoral procedural legislation, we do not see any inconvenience at first of all to proceed with a sort of electoral procedure code provided that the objective is only and only to compile it, and we do not intend to change any variables of the nature of our electoral system. With regard to the proposals aimed at responding to some of the issues which the pandemic is putting forward today, and as long as these amendments are merely transitional, and therefore assume an exceptional nature, our position gains different contours. In fact, in view of the framework we are going through, because of the pandemic, the Greens also consider that we are at risk of the forthcoming elections for the Presidency of the Republic to be marked by low participation, especially by the voters included in older age groups or risk groups, who, in the face of mobility limitations and the rules for combating the pandemic, will certainly be less available to exercise their right to vote. It therefore seems necessary for us to take measures to allow for greater electoral participation. We know that the proposals presented may not solve all the problems and require repeated care to ensure the essentials, but we are also sure that these proposals can mitigate the effects of the situation we live in from the point of view of electoral participation. Therefore, the proposals which seek to assign the right to vote in advance to persons who are in compulsory confinement, whether in their own home, be at the place established by the health authorities, which are not in hospital establishment, of course, provided that these voters are registered in the residence of the place of confinement, seem sensible to us, provided that the confidence and security of the electoral act is guaranteed, which, moreover, seems perfectly possible to assure us. The same applies to the provision of voting tables in each council, and not only in district capitals, for cases of early voting rights. We therefore follow up the proposals which aim at minimizing or mitigating the effects of compulsory confinement solely for the presidential elections and as long as they are understood with an exceptional and provisional nature and provided that the essential is guaranteed, i.e. to enable electoral participation in security and in such a way as to allow a fair, free and participatory election. As for the rest, and without wishing to make any judgment of value regarding the merit of its content, it does not seem to us to be the right time and time to make the proposed amendments to the electoral laws, which have nothing to do with the effects of the pandemic, with an electoral act even at the door.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u41	You have the floor to speak for the next speech, Mr Antonio Filipe, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that it is worth separating the issues, and first of all what is required with regard to the electoral law of the President of the Republic: it is necessary, from our point of view, that there is an exceptional system of advance voting, taking into account the citizens who, for reasons relating to compulsory confinement to which they may be subject, may still exercise their right to vote. This scheme is, by nature, an exceptional regime as to the anticipation of this situation. In other words, the current regime of the advance vote — whether the advance vote in mobility, whether the vote by prisoners or inpatients — requires predictability, requires the possibility of anticipation. It is known in advance that that citizen will be deprived of the normal right to vote on that date. But what is proposed is to narrow the possibility of anticipation as much as possible. That is, it is admitted that the citizen, in what today is a 20-day anticipation, becomes capable of being seven days. It is therefore a great effort that will be imposed on the entire functioning of the electoral administration to allow these citizens to have the right to vote. Then this regime is exceptional in terms of scope, because, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are planning a very demanding regime for the authorities and for the electoral administration. We do not know exactly how many citizens will need to use this mechanism. If, for reasons almost even convenience, we extend the possibility of resorting to this mechanism to any citizen, we can risk that this procedure will not work and that it will become absolutely unviable. As we are seeing, we do not now know how many citizens will make use of this possibility, but let us think of the City Hall of Lisbon, the City Hall of Porto, or very populous municipalities where there may be many citizens, unfortunately, having to make use of this possibility. And the scheme we're planning here is that the president of the chamber, or whoever asked for it, go to every citizen's house to pick up his vote. We cannot create a situation in which we will thus extend this possibility to other situations and not only those which are confined to the COVID-19, but, any day, the camera presidents must begin to vote at the citizens' home three months earlier. We're not talking about delivering pizzas to the house!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u43	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u44	We are talking about situations that, if they are not very circumscribed, they simply become absolutely unviable. And we run the risk, by extending this possibility, of creating a chaotic system for the functioning of elections, which would be the worst that could happen in elections in democracy. We will therefore have to make a very good sense of the possibilities, which we will create here, in anticipation of the vote for this reason. We therefore also disagree with the PSD's proposal to adopt, in the face of an exceptional situation, rules that can apply to all electoral acts from here on. That is to say, we do not want a 'pandemic' electoral system! We want an electoral system that is applied to the pandemic situation, when it exists, and that this is exceptional. Let us not now, at last, admit that the exceptionality with which we are faced is something to last forever and that will be so. We disagree with that option of the PSD. We believe that there is justification for the possibility of breaking down the voting tables, because the situation already described here in relation to some of the most populous churches is one fact: in fact, there have been difficulties in the exercise of the right to vote for many citizens. It also seems to us to be justified that, like what is going to happen in the elections to the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, the early voting tables, in mobility, can function at the level of conciliation and not only at the district level. It was found that, given the large number of voters, there were difficulties with regard to the voting tables at the district level, which also justifies their decoupling at the level of the council. The second question we are dealing with is consolidation. Mr Delgado Alves spoke of this at the beginning, but it makes sense, from our point of view, that it is essential to separate itself — the hard core of the electoral system, which has been a reason for divergence, from that which is the electoral process, in the strict sense, and which has not been so much. It is easy for us to agree on the rules of the electoral process, but it is more difficult to agree on more complex issues, from a political point of view, such as matters relating to the number of Members or to the delimitation of electoral circles. We therefore have to separate the two subjects very well and work on what is consensual, which are indeed the rules of the electoral procedure and which are applicable to any national electoral process, and which is therefore possible to consolidate. We are, of course, available for this work. One last question, Mr President, because my time is running out, has to do with the amendments to the draft electoral law for the European Parliament. This clarification seems to us to be justified because when there was a case in which this rule was discussed in relation to a Member of the European Parliament who has changed his mind during the term of office, there was a great difference between us as to whether or not he would lose his mandate in legal terms. The question has never been clarified because, in fact, the law does not clarify it, and in the matter of a restrictive matter of rights there must also not be extensive application. Therefore, there must indeed be clarification. What is lacking in clarifying is who declares the loss of mandate and how the process is triggered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u45	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is difficult not to be the Constitutional Court, because if it were the National Elections Commission, that decision would be remedial. And it would be repulsable to where? Probably for the Constitutional Court. It is therefore preferable to find a solution which is clear at the outset, and on which there is no doubt, and it seems to us that this legislative improvement is relevant. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u47	I now give the floor to Mr Paulo Pisco of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The strengthening of electoral participation and the simplification of electoral processes have always been one of the major concerns of the PS governments, and that also, in relation to voters abroad, that is, for all electoral acts involving the Portuguese communities, in particular for the Presidency of the Republic, for the European Parliament and, since the last amendments to electoral legislation, also with the option of a face-to-face vote for the Assembly of the Republic. The dematerialisation of the electoral books, resulting from the successful pilot experience for the mobility vote held in the Évora district in the last elections to the European Parliament, has already allowed a very positive evolution which could be applied to the counting of voters' votes abroad when the legislative elections held one year ago. The dematerialization of the electoral books thus allowed the identification of voters to be made more quickly through the constant bar code of the envelope with the vote, which contains an enormous potential so that it can go even further in the simplification of the electoral process. Indeed, this technical development applied to electoral processes was very important in a context in which the electoral universe increased by about five times, the result of the courageous decision of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to adopt the automatic census, which has moved the number of voters abroad from about 320 thousand to more than 1 million and four hundred thousand, with registration — and this is also important to note — of Portuguese voters in 186 countries, therefore in almost all countries in the world. In other words, more than one million and 100,000 new voters were included in the election books because they had an address abroad on the citizen's card. But if we are faced with a real revolution about the increase in electoral participation and consequent valorization of our communities, this evolution also brought with it enormous logistical difficulties in consular posts that must be seriously addressed. Of course, with the need to simplify the organization of the electoral process in consulates, because it is absolutely imperative to facilitate the lives of diplomats and post officials and to end the tons of paper printed from the electoral books and to reduce the enormous ecological footprint that this implies. Just to get an idea of the size of the problem, a consular post like that of Paris, which has the largest number of registered voters throughout our consular network, it took several days to print about 32 000 pages of electoral books. In addition, more than 14 tonnes of ballots have been sent to posts abroad near two tonnes of ballots, to which they are added — in other elections to the European Parliament — more than 14 tonnes of ballots, more or less the same as will now be necessary for the presidential elections. These examples prove, on their own, the absolute need to go further in simplifying electoral processes abroad, ending with this heavy logistics and enormous waste and facilitating the task of organizing elections in consular posts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u50	So, Mr Secretary of State, the first question I would like to ask you is that there are already or are no conditions for finalizing dematerialized electoral documents abroad? And as for ballots, would it not also be possible to end the waste and face an alternative to the sending of tons of paper to future electoral acts? Will it be technically feasible, for example, for voters to obtain their ballot card directly at the consular post by introducing their valid citizen card into the reader who recognises digital signature, thus avoiding the sending of tons of paper and the enormous waste inherent? If the evolution effectively points in this direction, I believe that the conditions would also be created so that, in the communities, the vote could be implemented in presence mobility, allowing, for example, an elector registered in the consular area of Stuttgart to vote in Hamburg or a registered in Zurich to vote in Geneva. Mr Secretary of State, do you also think it is possible to evolve in this respect? Finally, I would like to address the issue of the expiry of the identification document, also referred to in these amendments. It is of the utmost importance to extend the period from 12 to 24 months, so that the registration of the electorate becomes inactive and removed from the electoral books. And this is for a simple and practical reason: there are many thousands of Portuguese residents abroad with double nationality, but not only in these cases, who naturally use in their day-to-day identification documents of the host country, and even in case of need, they resort to Portuguese documents, for example to participate in an electoral act, but then more likely to expire. So — and I will finish — with the extension of the deadline, there will certainly also be more citizens to participate in the electoral acts and we will thus be making an important contribution to increasing electoral participation abroad in the Portuguese communities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u51	Also for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Emilia Cerqueira has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that there are two or three notes which I think are important that they are still left here. First, I am referring to the consensus, which seems to us to be broad, on one of the issues: the need for change, because of the situation of the COVID we live in. I know — and the PSD took note — that there are parties that put great objections to not being an exceptional and absolutely temporary situation, but also the PSD, in its proposal, did not opt for this situation only for the election of the President of the Republic, but for all elections, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, the pandemic was not in the plans, in thought, in the hypotheses put by either of us a year ago. It is true that, today, this is the reality that we live, that the whole world lives, and, contrary to what we often complain about, the House is going after the damage, not to resolve in advance the issues that may be put to it, this time the PSD understood to have a proactive attitude and to prevent the eventuality of pandemic situations and even this pandemic to continue beyond the next election of the President of the Republic. It is absolutely uncertain what will happen. Nor can we forget the possibility of having an interim election, for example for local authorities. So many times in our democracy there are elections around the country for local situations and they often go unnoticed, but they do not cease to exist. And even these elections also need this predictability. And it would be wrong, yes, to this House, contrary to what some parties here suggested, if each election made a legal amendment because, after all, the Assembly did not do so. Then we would be accused constantly—and well! — by the Portuguese that we have not been careful about this hypothesis for all elections, but only for these circumstances. Mr António Filipe, I cannot fail to note that the PSD proposal refers to these situations when duly notified and confirmed by the Directorate-General for Health, by the health authorities. And a pandemic that is COVID—and we hope it is only the COVID that we live in our lives—is not something that comes from our recreation at any time, it is a very complicated, very complex and very serious situation and that the health authorities, in which the PSD, despite the failures that sometimes show us, do not fail to believe, under the penalty of finding that institutions do not work, which does not seem to us to have a vision that we can have of our institutions. It adds that we constantly have the speech on the need to bring voters closer together, to call to the vote the Portuguese because of the abstention with which we deal, and which are getting bigger, from electoral act to electoral act. And it seems to us that Parliament — in a broad consensus that the PSD hopes it will be achieved in the field of expertise — can also give this signal that it really wants to bring the voters closer and encourage them to vote. We therefore see with good eye and find it essential that certain amendments be made, namely the break-up of the voting tables, for the advance vote, from 1500 to 1000, and this is a common proposal between the PSD and PS, which provide for approximately the same system. It is important to remember — and I cannot but mention — that the PSD proposal has entered first, but I am glad that the PS has accompanied it in that wish. It's with good eyes we see it. We also find it essential in this approach to the citizen and to facilitate the vote, which, in cases of voting in mobility, because of the situation we live in, is not confined to the council. Mr. Secretary of State, I know that it can present new challenges, but it is our obligation, as a State, as representatives of Portuguese, to create the conditions, although challenging, so that they can effectively vote. It is up to this House and the Executive, as soon as this House accompanies our intention, to make it difficult for all citizens, even if it is difficult, even if the President of the Chamber, who, in fact, appears in the PSD proposal, can be replaced by another person appointed for the purpose, to vote, making what is possible the analogy with what is already the case with the citizens who are hospitalized and with the citizens who are imprisoned in prison, because the right of universal access to vote cannot be just a speech, it must also be a reality. And we cannot, in any way, place another burden on our fellow citizens, who, for any reason, see themselves in a situation of confinement, or even hospital, not to see their fundamental right to vote recognized. To give another note, we see as fundamental that the system, in its whole, suffers from changes that make it more agile and better. The PSD calls on this House to contribute, in the field of expertise, to ensure that those aspects that still need some adjustments, for which we are naturally open, as has already been said, are also filled and that the edges are treated so that the Portuguese finally say that Parliament is concerned about them and that they can vote in the best conditions, without situations impossible to comply with. This is a basic and fundamental right and obligation that we have towards the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u53	The next intervention will be given by Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that, from the beginning of the intervention by the Socialist Party, we are presented with a number of diplomas under the undisputedly beautiful layer of the quality of democracy. The quality of democracy is something we appreciate, although I cannot fail to note that, precisely in this Parliament, and in particular in this Legislative Session, has not been the best-treated reality, particularly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u56	The end of the 15th-year debate, the domain of the two major central parties on the agenda and the parliamentary debate, the limitations to the citizens' initiative have not been good examples of improving or improving the quality of democracy. Having said this, I want to leave a second previous note. The Government, particularly the Minister of Internal Administration, had spoken more than once about the development of the electronic vote. We know that electronic voting has its difficulties, including that in countries where it is widespread, it does not always have the best reliability between vote and voter claim, because it then translates into a massive simplification, which is not necessarily the ideal. But it could be an improvement and, of course, could solve many of these problems. In terms of electronic voting, we also record what happens — nothing. We also know that the Minister of Internal Administration is a good thing to promise, to announce, to say that he will do, but he does nothing — the usual. It does not usually fulfill what it promises and then the idea it gives us is that, having done nothing in this matter, we have a ruling agenda of the party that supports the government to do any sort of thing, i.e. typical scheduling. [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] I recognise, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, that the majority that supports the government in some way take some initiatives that were not taken here. We are now going to the concrete of what is at stake, which is the vote in mobility, of which we are in favour. We have always been and remain in favour of the mobility vote. In this regard, we must expect that what happened in the last elections, in which the citizens wanted to vote — and in particular in the early vote — will not happen, and it was chaos, with endless lines, with no organisation, with everyone wanting to vote at the same time. That can't even happen. But we are in favour of the mobility vote. However, we call the attention of the government — and we hear it here on this issue — so that, theoretically, enlargement of the tables is a good idea, but this alone does not solve the problem and implies more than a few hundred or thousands of people, with inherent costs. Therefore, there is a reasonable doubt in this regard that needs to be considered. Is there, even more in this context, this availability of people? Is there a capacity to bear that same cost? It has to be considered, it has to be seen and, in this matter, both the PS project and the PSD project reinforce to some extent the role of camera presidents. It is a greater requirement, but we are not against it, even if it would be worse if we did this for the central administration and we did not leave the cameras that possibility. So that's where we have no problems. With regard to the issue of pandemic, we understand the problem, as it is evident and in good sense, we understand the right of voters to vote, we understand the good intentions that may exist, either in the PS project or in the PSD project, but I must say that it seems to us that it has to reflect a little on the solution found, which, moreover, is reinforced in the PSD project, either temporarily or in the mechanism itself. As has already been said, and from this point of view I agree with what Mr António Filipe has said, it must be very much thought about its viability. In fact, in large urban areas, the idea of the camera president who goes from house to house to pick up the hygienic vows and then takes them so that I don't know where it seems quite confusing. I also leave you with another question: the Socialist Party's project assumes that, in January — according to the Social Democratic Party's project until it can go further — we can still be in a complex situation from the point of view of the pandemic, which is perfectly pensable and weightable, as it is obvious, and that is not what I am criticizing. But, admitting that we will be in such a situation, i.e. admitting uncertainty, we do not even know what the degree of uncertainty is. If we have a mechanism in which a president of the chamber—in the case of the PSD project, accompanied by the police, the health delegate and no longer know who; it is a small procession...—if you will move the house of the voters, I ask: if the pandemic situation is worse and we have an extended confinement in certain areas of the country, what will happen? in this case, we'll have made a useless law, it seems to me. And I'm not even criticizing the idea or the intention, I'm saying that, obviously, this has to be very well thought out. I hope not to be in the situation of March or Ovar again, but we will think that, in one or another context, there is a more widespread confinement. What are we gonna have? Countless delegates, appointed by the camera president, from house to house, all pick up votes? That's a little weird. At the same time, I also ask what will happen in those cases where confinement is very likely to be necessary, such as in the homes. What are we gonna have? Are we going to have the president of the chamber, with his delegates, with the health delegate and the police, from home to home, collecting the wishes of the elderly? Is that what we're gonna have? And does this guarantee us reliability and transparency in the electoral process? It is that, more than the hygiene of votes, I am concerned about the transparency of the electoral process, even above, of the question of the hygiene of votes, which I find easier to resolve. The idea of the image you give me, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a pascal compass, but an electoral compass. I mean, it's a little trip that goes from house to house, or from home to home, pick up the votes. Understanding, of course, good intentions — that is not what is at stake — this is a matter that I sincerely believe deserves some thought and thought until this solution will not be applicable in large urban areas or in the case of a more widespread confinement, because it will become completely impossible. She was thought of today. Today, yes, with half a dozen cases identified, it would be possible, but uncertainty does not allow us to draw a definitive conclusion. There are also other matters on which I would like to say, particularly on the proposal for the European Parliament, which is a correction. Better or worse, but it's actually a correction. It is almost as if — and irony happens — a « marine and Pinto diploma », because I do not see many more cases in which it applies. It has also happened with a member elected by the Left Block, but as much as I remember, it has passed the independent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u57	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u58	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. The only case this happened was with Dr. Marinho and Pinto, but we have nothing to object to. I should like to conclude by saying that, in relation to the working group, if it is done only for compilation, whether a technical committee would solve the problem. The risk of these working groups — and this risk has been alerted from now on — is that we should go into what we have often seen in the 'now' — 'now now' changes this, 'now' changes that, and we do not think that this is neither the time nor the time to make profound changes in the electoral laws. The fundamental thing in all this is to ensure freedom to exercise will, the unity of the vote, its secrecy and the transparency of the process. These are our fundamental concerns. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u59	Thank you very much, Mr Telmo Correia. Mr. Hugo Carneiro has signed up, I suppose to ask Mr. Telmo Correia questions. But Mr Telmo Correia no longer has time to answer. So if you want to turn your questions into an intervention, we will follow the order of speeches.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u60	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u61	in this case, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. José Magalhães, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The debate that has been going on has proved, to the surprise of some, useful. In other words, it was marked by the PS, in the exercise of a right which, I believe, did not deserve dispute or dispute and served a very practical and very evident purpose, allowing the various parties to take a stand on hot issues. None of the issues that we have been discussing here are of little relevance or which does not deserve a morning of work in the Assembly of the Republic. So we did well to make this power agenda and to let other parties follow our initiative with their own ideas. What we have found is that this whole matter will give rise to two organizational problems. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent report. That has to be, of course, weighted. There are issues that do not arouse any passion or controversy, such as this issue of the opening of the tables, which is obvious. For those who attended the elections, as happened to my comrade João Paulo Correia, who had to follow the work in Mafamude, the show is inconspicuous and impossible, even because the board presidents are held responsible for the misfortune resulting from the law. So we have to change the law if we do not want to repeat this show. I believe that our initiative — which draws attention to the need to react to work, which began long before, on the question of consolidation of electoral legislation — was generally in agreement. I would like to reassure Mr Telmo Correia because, in this respect, the creation of a working group implies, with the composition that we propose to represent all parties, that it does not enter into a regime of the 'now', as he called it, because it is initially defined what is the mandate. And the mandate is absolutely clear: to try to standardise the rules of procedure — end point, paragraph. There is no mandate beyond this, nor would that be appropriate, given the majority that it is necessary to obtain in order to vote on certain standards — and they are different majority. We therefore believe that our proposal is above all suspicion. As regards other issues which have been discussed here, including those of the electronic vote, such as the honourable Member will calculate, nothing hurts me more than having passed by the Ministry of Internal Administration without being able to propose to institute the electronic vote. But we set up the first phase of electronic voting, i.e. an electoral census system that allows electronic voting with a platform to work on. I do not know the ideas of the CDS-PP on this matter, but we all have an interest in knowing them. The only thing I think they will not want to propose will be the vote in the sitting room or on the beach, because they would have no democratic control or the possibility of scrutiny by the party delegates. Therefore, this is an impossibility, although some libertarians are followers of this mode of electronic democracy. It's not our case. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the old objective of achieving a single electoral code will be achieved in this Legislative Session — in this Legislative Session, I repeat, not in this Parliament — because, with this, we will take an important step towards understanding the legal framework. We must not forget that this is a legal framework for thousands of operators in thousands of locations throughout the national territory and abroad. Therefore, their understanding is very important and we must make a contribution to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u63	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Carneiro. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to comment on what Mr Telmo Correia and Mr António Filipe have said about exceptionality or a more stable measure in electoral legislation on this matter of voters contaminated with coronavirus, patients with COVID-19 or in quarantine. Indeed, this is not a clause which, by inserting into electoral legislation, can only be used because we remember or because the voter remembered. No, it's not like that. There must indeed be a serious risk to public health decreed by the health authority so that this legal clause can be used. If it does not exist, then it is something that does not exist in the electoral process either. We all know that you are not the president of the chamber, because what is on the proposal is that it is the president of the chamber or the one who replaces it. Therefore, easily—and this happens, even in other diplomas—we know that sometimes representatives of the president of the chamber are sent in missions or in the fulfilment of the powers that eventually the law assigns to them. We therefore believe that it is an appropriate regime, although it can also be improved, as I have already said. We placed in the diploma a health authority representative and two police officers, but it could be one. I explained recently that this has to do with teams that travel in mirrors, but it can be one, no problem. If there is an extended confinement, it may even be half, if possible, but balanced. What we cannot consider is that if only the representative of the municipality the problem is solved by itself, because that is where the questions are raised. The honourable Member spoke of such a group—and the term is mine—of people who are accompanying the representative of the municipality and, indeed, when we think of the joining of a delegate of each list, if the parties so understand, with a representative of the health authority and a representative of the municipality, this brings great certainty to the way in which the voting process takes place. It's unquestionable! Grave was if it was just one person and we didn't know who. That's where we could all raise the doubts. I would also like to mention something else, with regard to the breakdown of the tables, which Mr Telmo Correia also mentioned, on which I would like to make some remarks. Indeed, democracy is cost-effective. We all know this and I think that we are fully committed to it, but indeed, in the weighting of the costs of democracy, between them or not, or having more tables to facilitate the voting process, to facilitate the distancement, I would say, adapting here a Latin brocade, in doubt pro tables, i.e. in doubt I think it is preferable to have more voting tables, with the costs that democracy naturally has. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u65	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken some notes on the questions raised and what has been said and I will start by answering Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. I understand what you're saying, sir. In fact, in view of our society, it does not make sense at first sight to have only one electronic platform. The problem is deadlines. If we admit mail registration, imagine when we will start the process! Therefore, there are some practical and enforceable difficulties that are difficult to resolve. Those are the issues. The question of the platform is always that of immediacy, ease, the question of 'checking' and therefore the ease of control of the process itself. If we extend, we will have difficulties, not only in time, but also in relation to all this. But I realize that, from the point of view of equality between citizens, the excluded info cannot, of course, be treated differently from the others, but I cannot find a solution to solve the issues you have raised. As regards the question of dematerialized books, I wanted to inform the Assembly of the Republic that, abroad, we sent 1, 44 tonnes of paper only to the books and on the territory we nationalised 4, 8 tonnes. Therefore, even from the point of view of the environmental footprint, imagine what this means, being sure that most of the books we send abroad are purely useless because they end up not being used.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u67	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u68	So in reply to Mr Pisco, I would say that in fact the electoral administration would be in a position, which would even be advisable, to ensure the electoral books made abroad — as well as in national territory, but at least in a first stage abroad — and I think that would prevent this whole situation. As far as ballots are concerned, the issue is not so easy, but I would say that it is a matter of concern. What I would like to say to the House is that the electoral administration, by virtue of the know-how it has in this regard, will always be able to resolve all issues that are feasible from a practical point of view and, therefore, all that the Assembly of the Republic decides, the Government, through the electoral administration, will meet in an exact and transparent manner, i.e. with rigour. There will be no intention on the part of the electoral administration to hide anything, either from the point of view of formality or from the procedure. That is why I would say that we will do everything we can to carry out this matter. Since it was mentioned in the dematerialized electoral books, there is another issue that has also been routinely raised and that could also be resolved, which is the case of voters living in national territory and who are temporarily abroad. These citizens are also prevented from voting, but could vote in advance, including themselves on the platform of the electoral administration, thus exercising their right to vote without any limitation. This is not possible today, but it would be - without needing any justification, so that in fact a citizen who goes abroad for any reason, on a date that coincides with an election act, can, of course, exercise his right to vote. Therefore, there are several solutions, several issues which are open and which, from the point of view of the electoral administration, are enforceable and which would ultimately help to increase electoral participation. With regard to Mr Telmo Correia's questions, the question of electronic voting at the moment would not solve the problem because electronic voting is always present. There's no giving again. Therefore, being present, we would have the same situation. from the point of view of the pandemic situation we live in, this would not change in any way this matter. It is true that the present electronic vote, which has already been experienced in Évora, has proved, I think, that it is possible to move forward to a solution of these, from a technical point of view, if it can be said, provided there is a political decision of the Assembly of the Republic in that sense. It is clear that this has costs, but they are also more or less accounted for—in fact, following the experience of Évora—and could, in fact, be equationd in the perspective of the transfer of the computer material of this procedure to schools, to keep it for five years, being used in the elections that took place in those five years. So it would be possible to mitigate some of the costs. Only on paper does each election cost us more than a million euros, so when we start making the accounts, at the end of a few years, the question of costs would probably not be the most relevant in this matter. Finally, on the question of the enlargement of tables, as I have already said, there are 13,965 more people. These are the accounts, the number of tables is perfectly identified and how many people are needed. And it is on the basis of these figures that we made the calculations from the budgetary point of view. We have proposed to the Ministry of Finance four cost scenarios, depending on the level of pandemic and on the solutions that the Assembly of the Republic adopts on this matter, so the costs are all guaranteed in view of the realization of electoral acts. I would also like to say a word about the transparency of the procedure of the advance vote for the people who are in confinement. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are delegates. Finally, the candidatures have their delegates, accompany the President of the House or replace him, such as the security forces, and go to the sites. Therefore, the idea of the « home chapel », which Mr Telmo Correia referred to,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u69	I didn't say anything like that! Don't attribute me expressions that I didn't say!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u70	The expression is mine, but your idea, at the bottom, is that the process does not correspond to the truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u71	What they have is a second thought!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u72	Mr President, I would say that in any of the proposals under discussion this subject would be basically protected by the fact that there are delegates from the candidatures. So what I think is that in order for there to be an inverted situation in the vote there would have to be a collusion between the security forces, the president of the chamber or those who replace it, the delegates of their candidatures. Finally, I would say that there would have to be a lot of convergence of wills so that there would be a simulation of the vote. To finish, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that the Government will obviously comply with what is decided by this House. It has the means to implement any of the solutions that have been found — finally, with the limitations I have mentioned — and, from the budgetary point of view, it will also have the conditions for implementation, so that the elections will naturally develop. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, to close this debate, I call Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State : I think that the debate and the morning have been particularly productive. The power debate was justified because of the urgency. The way in which the debate took place showed that it is rich, comprehensive and identifies problems for all. It will have done the happiness of those who have a hobby or passion in electoral law, but above all it will have produced a positive result for the citizens, because of this meeting and this debate we find consensual solutions, which we will still have to work and which point to a path. I would say that there is a broad consensus in which measures are necessary for COVID and, in this respect, we may have to draw up some additional rules to ensure health protection, discuss the question of the geographical scope of the measures and see if it is possible to find a balance, going a little while at the suggestion of the PSD, but without endangering the enforceability of the vote. We will also have to check the issue of other means of registration than the online platform - but I think that, even in spite of the difficulties, we can at least do some reflection - and, above all, we also consider questions which Mr Telmo Correia has raised, which are relevant, as regards the existence of possible health fences or an additional confinement which may require a strengthening of means with some authorities that may be deprived of workers. On the other hand, we have identified a set of measures which, being general improvements to the legislation, should enter into force as early as January: the number of voters per table, because this helps to manage the pandemic; the vote in conciliation mobility, because this also helps to manage the pandemic; and dematerialized notebooks abroad, because this is also an important factor. With regard to the point of consolidation, Mr Telmo Correia said that perhaps a technical group would be preferable, but a technical group has been experimented and at times when it is not fundamental decisions for the Republic, a political decision is needed. Sometimes, to standardise a period which is in a certain form of electoral law and another one without a decision which cannot be technical, however much watershed a political decision maker needs. Finally, I could not fail to note that in a debate on presidential elections, which is surely the founding moment of democracy, a structural institution of our democracy, the only candidate for the presidency of the Republic was absent all morning. It is a pity you did not participate in the debate. It would have contributed to the strengthening and robustness of democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This also demonstrates our commitment to voters, institutions and the Republic. So I don't know if it has been needed, but at least it demonstrates how the seriousness of democracy views it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u75	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the vote on the Rules of Procedure, for which there is a quorum. I request the Secretary of the Bureau Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the draft vote No 330 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by the PAR and signed by PSD and PCP Members, the PAN, the CH, the Non-registered Members Joacine Katar Moreira and Cristina Rodrigues and the PS Members ) — Sadly the death of Jorge Salavisa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last September 28, 2020, at the age of 80, Jorge Salavisa, consensually the most important name of the dance in Portugal and one of the biggest figures of the world dance. Born in Lisbon, on 13 November 1939, Jorge Salavisa began his classical dance in 1958, in the studio of Anna Mascolo, continuing his studies and a brilliant journey in Paris and London, where he relates to legends such as Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev, passing through companies such as the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas ( 1960 ) or the Ballet National Popular, but also by the London Festival Ballet, between 1963 and 1972, having worked there with Leonide Massine, Serge Life and John Taras. He returned to Lisbon in 1977, to, at the invitation of the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation, be a dancer of the Ballet Gulbenkian, an institution of which he was artistic director until 1996 and in which he invested heavily in the formation of national dancers and choreographers, helping to discover references such as Olga Roriz, Clara Andermatt, Paulo Ribeiro, Vera Mantero, Rui Horta or Vasco Wellenkamp, and to internationalization of their respective careers. In 1994, he signed the Lisbon Dance Programme'94 — European Capital of Culture, assuming the leadership of the National Dance Company between 1998 and 2001. Professor Coordinator of the Coreographic Office of the School of Dance of the National Conservatory, between 1984 and 1998, actively collaborated with various national companies and abroad, especially the Rosas Company, by Anne Teresa de Keersmaeker ( Brussels ). In May 2010, he took over the presidency of the Artistic Production Agency ( OPART, IP ), which left in January 2011, for failing to achieve « (... ) work without dreams ». The honours he received in life are numerous, under the name of the Grand-Officer of the Order of the Infante D. Henrique, in 1996, the Bordal Prize of the Press for the Dance, in 1999, or the Municipal Medal of Mérito-Grau Gold of the Municipal Chamber of Lisbon, in 2007, for his remarkable career. In all places where he passed, Jorge Salavisa — dancer, choreographer, director — left a profound mark of dedication and delivery, own of the discreet, shy and reserved genius that has always been — that well attests to the many tributes that the news of his death originated, from all the quadrants of Portuguese society. The disappearance of Prince Salavisa — as well portrayed in the Xtrórdinário play, by the Prague Theatre, on the occasion of the 125th anniversary of the São Luiz Teatro Municipal, of which he was Artistic Director between 2002 and 2010 and who managed to put on the international road map — constitutes a huge loss for Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its deep regret at the death of Jorge Salavisa, addressing his family and friends with the most heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u77	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. In the gallery, relatives and friends of Jorge Salavisa are present, to whom I also present my condolences directly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The Vote Project No. 337 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Unfortunately for Quino's death, which will be read by Mrs Lina Lopes. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Joaquín Salvador Lavado Tejón, best known as Quino, died last September 30 at 88 years in his hometown, Mendoza, Argentina. Quino was known worldwide for the creation of Mafalda’s comic character. He attended the Faculty of Fine Arts, became a comic artist and since 1949 began publishing his first creations. In the 1960s, Mafalda's character gained life and was published. Mafalda, a six-year-old girl from the middle Argentine class, served as a vehicle for Quino to communicate his criticism of social injustice and his concerns about the future of humanity and the planet. Mafalda and other Quino characters shared the mood with which they viewed social and political realities worldwide. Mafalda came to be adopted by Argentine feminist movements, with the approval of Quino, and came to be used in campaigns for legalization of abortion. Already after Mafalda, Quino worked in the service of numerous causes, including UNICEF campaigns, the Red Cross and even the Argentine government itself. Quino became the most translated and sold Spanish-language comic author. He has sold millions of books around the world and his comic book band is translated into more than thirty languages. Mafalda, The Contestataria was the first Quino album published in Portugal, in 1972. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Quino. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u79	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the two votes that we have just adopted, we are going to keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The Vote Project No. 336 / XIV / 2 is followed. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and signed by PS and PSD Members ) — Protest for the outrage of the Moria refugee camp on the Greek island of Lesbos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u80	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u81	Please, Mr Deputy and Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u82	Mr President, I just wanted to say that I cannot make my electronic record.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u83	I thought I intended to intervene on the draft vote No. 336 / XIV / 2. a, but it is registered, Mr. We shall then proceed to the vote on the deliberative part of the motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u84	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u85	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u86	Mr President, I would like to announce that, on this vote, I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u87	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the general vote on the Bill No 56 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the deadline for submitting the proposal for the municipal budget to 2021. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Let us now proceed to the vote in the speciality of the same Bill No 56 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). We begin with Article 1. o — Purpose, which is the subject of two replacement proposals. Let us first vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 1 Subject This law amends the provisions of Article 45(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording and Article 25(2) of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 in its current wording by amending the deadline for submission of the proposal for a municipal budget.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u88	Mrs. Members, in view of the outcome of this vote, are prejudiced by the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP, also replacing Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[(a) the derogation from Article 45(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013, as amended by Law No 25/2015 of 30 March, 69/2015 of 16 July, 7-A/2016 of 30 March, 42/2016 of 28 December, and 50/2018 of 16 August.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u89	The vote on Article 1 shall also be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. Article 2 is hereby followed. o — Budget schedule of municipalities, which is also the subject of a proposed replacement. We shall therefore vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP.]] [[It shall be read as follows: ‘Article 2 Amendment to Law No 73/2013 of 3 September Article 45(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 shall be amended as follows: ‘Article 45 [...] 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph, the executive body shall submit to the deliberative body by 30 November of each year the proposal for a municipal budget for the following economic year. 2 —...’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u90	Mrs. Having approved this proposal, the vote on Article 2 shall be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a new Article 3. o the proposed law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] [[‘Article 3 of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September is amended by Article 27(2) of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 with the following wording: ‘Article 27 [...] 1 — [...]. 2 — The assessment of the inventory of assets, property rights and obligations, their assessment and the assessment and voting of the accounts documents for the previous year shall take place at the ordinary session of April, and the approval of the options of the plan and the budget proposal for the following year at the meeting of November or December, with the exception of Article 61’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u91	Mrs. Members, let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] [[‘Article 2a Amendment to the Legal Regime of Local Authorities Article 27 of the Legal Regime of Local Authorities, as annexed to Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 is replaced by the following: ‘Article 27 [...] 1 — [...]. 2 — The assessment of the inventory of assets, property rights and obligations, their assessment and the assessment and voting of the accounts documents for the previous year shall take place at the ordinary session of April, and the approval of the options of the plan and the budget proposal for the following year at the meeting of November or December, with the exception of Article 61’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u92	Mrs. Members, let us now vote on Article 3. o — Entry into force and production of effects of the proposed law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] It is now necessary to proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the Proposal for a Law No 56 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Change the deadline for submitting the proposal for the municipal budget to 2021. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We turn to the general vote on draft resolution No 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of public services in the municipalities of Odemira and Aljezur and the definition, within a maximum of one year, of the definitive urban solution for the lack of adequate housing supply. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Luís Graça, Maria Joaquina Matos, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro, votes against the PAN and PS, BE and IL abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft resolution we just voted down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Resolution No. 194 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government implement social and environmental responses in regions most affected by intensive and superintensive agricultural crops. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and abstentions from CDS-PP, IL and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Luís Graça, Maria Joaquina Matos and Telma Guerreiro.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution also goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall also vote, in general, on draft resolution No. 225 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop integrated housing and social responses for agricultural workers within the Mira river perimeter. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Luís Graça, Maria Joaquina Matos, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from PS and PSD.]] Mrs. Members, this draft resolution is also down to 6. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 270 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends urgent and specific measures to the Government in strengthening public services, in increasing control and monitoring of the working conditions of agricultural workers and in ensuring decent housing within the Mira River perimeter. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, Non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Deputies Ana Passos, Jamila Madeira, José Apolinário, Luís Graça, Maria Joaquina Matos, Pedro do Carmo and Telma Guerreiro, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstentions from PS and PSD.]] Mrs. Members, in the same way, this draft resolution goes down to 6. the Commission. We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 591 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government amend the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 179/ 2019 of 24 October with a view to safeguarding an effective continuation of public housing policies. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No 75 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and the extension of social protection of workers in the shift and night work scheme( 16 ). the amendment to the Labour Code ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 17 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 246 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Amend the Labour Code and the General Law on Public Works, strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The general vote of Bill No. 252 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the strengthening of workers' rights in the shift and night work arrangements (amendment to the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall vote for an application submitted by the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for 30 days of the Bill No 542 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work arrangements (Other Labour Code and General Public Service Labour Law). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] This bill therefore falls to 10. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Increase in national minimum wage. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u93	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u94	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u95	Mr President, it is only to announce that we are going to make a written statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u96	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will vote for draft resolution No 618 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support to institutions in the social and solidarity sector with residential structure for elderly people under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS, PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u97	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u98	Mrs Diana Ferreira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u99	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this draft resolution of the CSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u100	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We will generally vote for Bill No. 547 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Other provisions of the electoral laws for the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the bodies of the local authorities, the organic laws of the referendum regime and the local referendum and the legal regime of the electoral census, extending the vote in mobility and simplifying and uniforming cross-border provisions for the execution of electoral and referendum acts. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 548 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Harmonizes the Electoral Law for the European Parliament with the provisions in force in the Portuguese legal order on the loss of mandate of holders of elective positions. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 549 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — establishes an exceptional system of early voting in the election of the President of the Republic for electors to whom compulsory confinement has been decreed, due to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic and the COVID-19 disease, at their respective home or at another location defined by the health authorities other than in hospital establishment. [[We voted in favour of the PSS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We now vote on Resolution Project No 675 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ) — Determines the preparation of consolidation of electoral procedural legislation. [[We voted in favour of the PSS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 505 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — extends the vote in advance to the voters who are in compulsory custody in the context of a situation of serious serious risk to public health, taking the twenty-second amendment to the Electoral Act of the President of the Republic, adopted by Decree-Law No. 319 -A / 76, of 3 May, to the tenth amendment to the Electoral Act for the Assembly of the Republic, adopted by Act No. 14 / 79, of 16 May, of 16 May, to the tenth amendment to the Organic Act No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which regulates the election for the holders of the organs of local authorities of local authorities, to the seventh amendment to Law No. 15 -A / 98, of 3 April ( Organic Law of the Referenerendored Body Act ), of 3 April ( Organic Law of 16 May, the tenth amendment of 12 February, and of 12 February, and of 12 February, and of 12 February, and 12 February, and 12 February, and 12 February and 12 February and 12 and 12 last last amendment and 12 February and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and 14 and and and and 14 and and and and and and 14 and and and and and and and and 14 seven seven four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four four and two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two two four and two two two four and two four and two four and two four and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two and two four and two and two and two and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two four and two two [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP and the ENP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote on draft resolution No 437 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government condition that new biomass plants be licensed to comply with strict environmental and sustainability standards. [[We voted in favour of the PSS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 511 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Sustainable and ecological use of residual forest biomass. [[We voted in favour of the PSS, the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 531 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reform of the model and public support to be allocated to forest biomass plants on the basis of their sustainability. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PS and CDS-PP abstentions.]] This draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We will vote for draft resolution No 470 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the evaluation and definition of environmental protection, public safety and spatial planning measures in the installation and management of fire camps. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 49 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes the simplification of various administrative procedures, including local authorities, and introduces amendments to the Code of Administrative Procedure. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, the PAN and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u101	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u102	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u103	Mr President, it is to inform that the Liberal Initiative will deliver a statement of vote on the vote on this final text.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u104	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The following is an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members. I would ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to report to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the opinion is to authorize Mr Ricardo Pinheiro ( PS ) to intervene in court.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u106	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] There are several Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen who wish to use the floor. Starting with the last row, please express yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u107	Mr President, it is only to inform the Bureau that, although I was unable to register in the system, I was present during the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u108	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u109	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u110	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u111	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u112	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u113	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u114	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u115	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u116	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u117	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Normally, the records are made before the votes. That's why they stop being able to do that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u118	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u119	The honourable Member has already said what he had to say on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u120	I've spoken before, Mr President, but it was only to reaffirm and say that we need a solution to put an end to these fundamental interventions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u121	Thank you, Mr, but we are not in time for interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u122	That's right, Mr. President, but the system doesn't work. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u123	To prevent this from happening again, I would ask the services to keep the record of the Members. Members open until the end of the vote. Now, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u124	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 696 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and Resolution Proposals Nos 13 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 14 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-10-09.u125	Before we finish, it remains to inform me of the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place on Wednesday, 14 October. At first, we will have political statements. the second point consists of a debate, with the participation of the Government, with regard to the state of the Union, as provided for in Article 4(1) ( c ). the Law on Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process ( Law No 43 / 2006 of 25 August, as amended by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May, and Law No 18 / 2018 of 2 May ) and on the general lines of the priorities of the future Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union. of the third point is the joint assessment of Petition No 650 / XIII / 4. a ( Humberto Tomaz de Sousa Almeida e Silva et al.) — Say No to Paredão and the Resolution Projects Nos 549 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government reassess the work of extending the outer seabreak of the Port of Legions, 611 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Suspension of the procedure for awarding works of expansion of the Port of Legions, including extension of the outer seabreak, 616 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the application of all environmental impact reduction measures in works to extend the Leixions Seabreak and the new container terminal and 650 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Intensification and credibility of the environmental impact assessment of the works integrated in the maritime accessibility project to Porto de Leixões. of the fourth point is the joint discussion of Petition No 637 / XIII / 4. a ( National Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers ) — They request that the chartering profession be qualified as rapid wear and the Resolution Project No 657 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the cartel activity with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity and the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work. We are thus at the end of our session. I wish everyone a good weekend, with health and good disposition. [[It was 12 hours and 33 minutes.]]
