ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority who open the gates of the galleries. Let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] of the first item on our agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic to the Assembly, concerning the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No. 26 / XIV, extending extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and workers on an individual basis due to the reduction of the economic activity caused by the epidemic of COVID-19, making the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No. 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new Coronavirus - COVID-19. The basis for this non-promulgation is the message which I shall immediately read: « His Excellency The President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No. 26 / XIV— which amends to Decree-Law No. 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March 2020, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new Coronavirus, extending extraordinary support for the reduction of self-employed activity to micro-entrepreneurs and individual entrepreneurs. However, this socially relevant enlargement has raised doubts about constitutionality due to possible infringement of the ‘law-work’, with the potential to involve an increase in expenditure provided for in the State budget for 2020, in the version still in force. 2. It follows that the proposal for the Supplementary Budget Bill for 2020, which is being discussed in the Assembly of the Republic, may perhaps allow to overcome this objection of constitutionality – already publicly invoked – and that the deadline for the submission of proposals for amendments, to be the subject of debate and virtual acceptance by the Government, only ends tomorrow. 3. Such a path could save the Assembly of the Republic from having to decide again on this matter, confirming the diploma, but leaving in open subsequent subsequent control of constitutionality supervision. 4. in these words, I return to the Assembly of the Republic, without promulgation, Decree No. 26 / XIV— making the tenth amendment to Decree-Law No. 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new Coronavirus, extending extraordinary support to reduce the activity of self-employed persons to microenterprises and entrepreneurs on an individual basis, in order to allow them to insert the matter in the context of the discussion and vote of the proposed Supplementary Budget Law submitted by the Government. The President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa. Do not keep on seeking. ” After reading this message, we will then move to the second point of the agenda, which consists of a left block marking for the general discussion of Bill No. 449 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Sets a maximum number of students per class in the school year 2020 / 2021 in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education due to the COVID-19 pandemic. To open the debate, proceeding with the presentation of this bill, Mrs Joana Mortagua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even before we begin, this debate, scheduled by the Left Block, on the preparation of the next school year, has merit, which is the defination of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u4	We learned three things: that the school year will begin between 14 and 17 September, that the first five weeks of classes will be for recovery and that the government has preference for present education in all cycles. But on the rules for present education, we know what we knew. If the priority to present education is presented today, yesterday the priority was presented to b-learning and the country knows both about the realization of the first and knew of the second, i.e., nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u6	The fact is that, despite the announcements, we are at the end of June and the government does not yet, or at least does not show an organisational plan for schools in times of pandemic. Silence is so heavy that the Supplementary Budget has spoken by the Minister and what he tells the country is that there will not be a penny to strengthen the present public school. PS Members will say: "But there are 600 million planned in the Stabilization Plan! Yes, it is true, but these 600 million European funds for digital resources only make it more evident the complete lack of investment for face-to-face education. In view of this, there are two hypotheses. The first is that the government intends to ignore the effects of the pandemic. The Supplementary Budget says that next school year will start without more teachers, no more specialized technicians, no more operational assistants. Thus, it will also begin with the same number of students per class, which makes it impossible to comply with the safety rules. Since this first hypothesis is not possible, the lack of resources for present education refers us to a second hypothesis, that the generalization of distance education will be the solution that the government really foresees, but does not assume, obliging teachers and students to an impossible mission and exacerbating inequalities every day. None of these hypotheses respond to the concerns of the school community or the needs of assistants, teachers and students. And in the absence of the government, Parliament's responsibility is to give this answer and protect public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this schedule is not just about a delay in office, it is about the debate that the Ministry of Education did not want to make with the country about one of the most important decisions of this exceptional time in which we live. Worldwide, there were 1600 million children and young people away from school by the pandemic and more than 90% of the children in the world were more exposed to poverty, inequality and extreme realities. UNICEF ( United Nations Children’s Fund ) has classified the global closure of schools as an unprecedented risk to education, protection and the well-being of children. The UN Secretary-General himself ( United Nations ), António Guterres, asked countries to give priority to education in their investments. In Portugal we still do not know the social and pedagogical effects of closing schools or distance education. There are no official statistics, but the surveys we know, both of the Education and Training Policy Observatory and of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), give the worsening of social inequalities as a matter of fact. It's in the sight of everyone that the gap is gigantic! No one contests that the strengthening of digital skills should be part of public school, but, no matter how hard the distance teaching strategies are, taking children out of school will always have serious consequences for their personal development and for the collective life of the country. School dropout, worse eating, worsening mental health problems, less access to health and specialized follow-up, less support for children with special educational needs, domestic violence or simple lack of interaction with colleagues, all of this is the consequence of closing up children at home in their own world. It is clear that those who suffer the most are those who live in the poorest, smaller or more frightening worlds, but all children need school to become people. Public school is not just a space where you will teach and learn the educational content, it is an essential instrument of social justice that must respond to all equally and cannot leave anyone behind. That is precisely what makes it one of the pillars of the social state in our country. Only in extreme situations, such as the general confinement imposed by COVID-19, can distance education be considered as a temporary and emergency solution. This was what happened in our country, in which distance teaching was an emergency response, thanks to the collective effort of teachers, parents and students, with difficulties, with creativity, because they did not have the training they should have had, with their own money and with their own computers, because the schools did not have — and they still do not — computer equipment. To be proud in public school is not to ignore their problems, nor to ignore the appeals of those who build it every day, such as that of this teacher of the second cycle who left her testimony on the schoolpublica.pt website: "We are losing students with more difficulties and of the most disadvantaged or most unaccompanied means in the face of the working conditions of the parents. For us, teachers, frustration is great and feeling of helplessness is overwhelming. Work is absolutely unbearable. Exhaustion and depression, computers to be damaged due to excessive use, tendonitis and muscle contractions. Do not keep on seeking. ” Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to education for this generation depends on the possibility of their return to school. This is what other countries are discussing, plans to return to the present classes with security and confidence, and in all these plans there is a common factor: to seek conditions for physical withdrawal, i.e., to decrease students by class. But how can it be possible to reduce the number of students by class, to open hours, to accompany the students who stayed behind without more teachers, more technical specialists and more investment in public school? How is it possible to apply this measure that, if anything else happens, it is the only one that guarantees security, on returning to classes? How is it possible to protect older professionals and risk groups without replacing teachers and non-teachers? How is cleaning and hygiene guaranteed when many schools no longer have operational assistants to open the library and the restaurant at the same time? How will school transport adapt to new times? As for the next school year, there are much more questions than answers about contingency plans, about the relationship between distance education and face-to-face education, about support for families who have to stay at home with children, about strengthening support for students with special educational needs, about solutions for vocational education and artistic education, or even about the return of school textbooks. It is before the silence of the Ministry of Education that the Left Block brings here this proposal. The reduction of students by class is essential so that the pandemic does not prevent the return to school. It is not enough to say that it is necessary to return to present education and then leave the responsibility of saving the right to education of a whole generation behind the back of the autonomy of schools! In particular, the possibility of returning to school should not and cannot be limited for budgetary reasons. The Block's proposal is flexible, with space to be adapted to the reality of each school, but with many advantages in relation to the silence of the government. First, it is clear about the goal of returning to face-to-face education; secondly, it assumes a strategy for this return; and thirdly, it guarantees the necessary investment in education. This is a proposal that does not look at the greatest challenge of all time in public school and, in doing so, responds to the thousands of teachers, assistants, families and students who build public school in our country every day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u7	You have four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u8	Mr President, I will respond first to two of these requests and then to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u9	Therefore, for a first request for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u10	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, it is appropriate for the debate proposed by the Left Block today when the Ministry of Education is listening to the educational partners to sign the opening plan for the next school year. The truth is that we face the next school year with our eyes placed on the mission of public school, to prevent inequalities of social status and family context from reproducing and perpetual. The great challenge is to make the next school year another day of education for all. It is with the eyes set on this objective that we must aim for the full return to present education and from here we greet the Government for having clearly taken on this mission. Students and teachers cannot stay separate forever, although this has been necessary for some time. The digital media, the # StudyEmCasa, the alternative forms of communication were important and avoided greater isolation and would have been even more serious, but do not replace human interaction. It is important to strengthen digital at the service of learning, not only outside the school but also within the school, and we have the tools for that. It is not only the equipment, it is the mobile connectivity, it is the training for students, teachers, trainers and technicians, it is the bet on new digital educational resources of quality, it is the social rate of access to Internet services, it is the digital inclusion of adults and it is, in short, a vast program of democratization of digital. But digital is a tool, it is not a substitute for the presence, we always know that and we always said it, and because it is important to make the next school year an education journey for all, we greet the government for having clearly set the goal of investing since the beginning of the school year in the recovery of learning and we have the tools for it. With the profile of students out of compulsory education, with the essential learnings, thanks to which we will not force teachers to put the fulfilment of too extensive and rigid programs in front of students' learning, with autonomy and curriculum flexibility, with the pedagogical innovation plans, with the tutorials, we have the tools to do what is necessary, the margin of maneuver that teachers and technicians need to give adequate answers to the different contexts, to their specific students, to the differentiated educational needs. And we have the means of the current budget, we have the means of the Stabilisation Programme and we have the means of the Action Plan for Digital Transition, because there has never been or never existed, only the Supplementary Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No one can know what the world will be like in three months and we will always have to respect the guidelines of the health authorities, but we know that the public school has responded promptly, maintaining the reception of children of essential professionals, maintaining the provision of school meals, quickly creating alternative forms of learning. We know that the robustness of this response has settled in a great partnership involving education professionals, schools and government itself, and we know that, in this partnership, it was essential that local solutions have settled in the ability of professionals, in each school, to suit the answers to their concrete reality. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, with regard to the draft law they present, and which is the contribution of the Left Block to this debate, I ask you whether it would be appropriate now to prescribe a universal reduction in the number of students per class, without knowing what the health situation will be in the next three months, without knowing whether conditionalism will remain stable during the school year, whether they will be equal in all schools and at all times, without knowing whether the conditions imposed by the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) will remain, without being able to anticipate in such a generic manner the real needs of reorganisation of student groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u11	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u12	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mrs. Member, when snow in Trás-os-Montes no schools are closed in the Algarve. So I ask you whether it is not better to give schools the conditions to respond specifically to their specific situation, which may be very different from school to school and vary from week to week, rather than already anticipate a national standard. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u13	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Joana Mortagua on the debate she brings today. The Block starts from a point that I would say is consensual among all the benches, that distance teaching, to which we have been forced, has several pedagogical and social limitations because it increases inequalities and prevents the realization of an essential role of the school, which is that of social mobility. But the Block starts from this consensus point only to drag its political agenda into education, which is not entirely achieved in the previous legislation, and perhaps that is why it now returns to this idea of cross-cuttingly reducing the number of students per class to levels that you know as well as I that are not concrete. Therefore, on the basis of an idea of security, which now falls very well, the Block stipulates that all classes of every year, of all schools, from Bragança to Faro, should have between 15 and 20 students. Finally, to be fair, the honourable Member even gives some degrees of freedom, says that the classes must have 15 students, but they may also have 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20. Therefore, it gives five degrees of freedom to schools to choose the number of students they should have. So, in this regard, I ask whether you think that, as a result and in line with your bill, schools will increase the square meters by September to account for the impact of this division on smaller classes, or whether there are no more rooms, what you are proposing is, in fact, the opening of the hours, which has as a consequence to explain to the parents of these students that your children will only have classes in the morning or in the afternoon and that, therefore, parents will not be able to go to work in the morning or in the afternoon to be able to follow them. Since you are familiar with the subjects of education, I also ask you if you do not know that there are several recruitment groups for which it is no longer possible, today, to find teachers and, therefore, if your solution will not lead to a large group of students being, in fact, without a teacher in September — in smaller classes, but without a teacher! I also ask you what the financial impact of this cross-sectional measure is, because I am sure that the honourable Member has, responsibly, made this estimate, and not only did it as it will, of course, present today, until 5 p.m., a proposal in the amending budget for caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u16	Therefore, Mrs Deputies, I would like to know whether to take advantage of a serious public health situation, which requires pragmatic responses for two months from now, is indeed the best opportunity to put on the political agenda a subject of many years ago, of the Bloc, which knows not to be feasible and which, frankly, seems to me to be more a subject of political use than a serious concern with the preparation of the school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u17	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u18	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, the honourable Member, with your question, showed that he knows both the details of the application and the implementation of present education such as the Block of the Left and how the Country, that is, nothing. This is because the fact is that the State, health authorities, the various ministries did not see any complications or had the task of issuing social distance guidelines for day care, for the ATL (free time activities), for the workplaces, for all places with frequent groups. For the public services that were opened there were guidelines on how it would work and what kind of distance it would have to be. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] Now, for schools, apparently, to be concerned about the distance of security that needs to be kept between students and to arrive at the obvious conclusion that this implies a reduction in the number of students per class, the breakdown by class, and that, in addition, the recovery of those students who stay behind will involve more resources seems to be a stapofhurdia conclusion. He said here that there is not only the Supplementary Budget. It is true, but the State budget — I do not know if you remember — was no longer enough to meet the needs of schools. Schools would no longer be able to open at the beginning of last school year because of the lack of operational assistants and, as it has been recalled, well, there are many recruitment groups that no longer have enough teachers. So what we know is that the Minister of Education, who doesn't know if more teachers are needed and who says that he is soon seeing himself—if he isn't the Minister of Education who knows, I don't know who he should know! — prepares to leave behind the back of the autonomy of schools the problem of solving social inequalities. And if there is a problem about the demand and responsibility of the Minister of Education, for which he must respond and face right now, it is the defense of public school, the investment in public school and the fight against social inequalities that distance education creates. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the leaders are changed, the will is maintained.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u19	It's me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u20	I referred to him and reminded him often that statement by the former Member of the Christian Assumption of 'the sacrifice of the public school'. The honourable Member has always been — and will always be — against the reduction of pupils by class, because it has always been, and will always be, against greater investment in public school and therefore there is consistency here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u21	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u22	What is serious is that this sectarianism against the decrease in the number of students per class, that sectarianism against investment in public school comes at a time when it is proven...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u23	Where is it tested? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u24	... that only the reduction of students by class and only social distance—because the pandemic is not expected to end within two months, contrary to Mr Porfirio Silva's hope—can allow what we all want, which is the return of children to school, to the defense of the country and to the development of children. But since the honourable Member has changed her mind several times in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u25	Me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u26	...—for example, when voting on school textbooks voted against the free distribution of school textbooks and until now, if they are not returned, we are waiting for you to change your mind too. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u27	Too bad I didn't answer my question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u28	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u29	Mr. President, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, the Left Block presented a bill to reduce the number of students per class due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a subject which the Left Block has brought to Parliament repeatedly, the only new thing is that this time the pandemic is the excuse. Therefore, the first question I wanted to ask you is whether the real motivation of this project is effectively the pandemic. Otherwise, let us see : is it up to the Assembly of the Republic to define the reduction in the number of students per class to ensure social distance, without paying attention to the reality and space of each school from north to south of the country and without knowing the public health conditions that must guide this decision? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u30	What is the scientific basis for this reduction proposed by the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u31	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u32	Even because in some schools there may be a case of instead of 15 being 12 students, how would we get the approval of this bill? This is not a matter for Parliament, this is a matter for the government and, when much, for the health authorities. What Parliament has to do is examine the activity of the Government in this case for the one who should be the school reopening plan, already in school next year, and there I agree with the honourable Member that there are, in fact, many questions to be asked to Mr Education Minister. This is because on 9 April we had the government's announcement that there would not be the reopening of schools until September, except for students who had national examinations, but almost three months passed and the government, in this case the Minister, disappeared. Therefore, there are in fact several answers that must be given, from the very outset to the question of how it is justified that today, three months after this announcement, there is not yet a plan for the resumption of the education system in Portugal. The only information we had was yesterday's statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education, in the middle of a visit to a school, where basically what they announced was that there would be a plan, which we do not know what it is. Thus, in three months, nothing was said or brought to the public discussion about the resumption of the next school year. Unfortunately, Mr Prime Minister and Mr Minister of Education were more diligent and eager to announce the coming of the League of Champions to Portugal than to announce the resumption of the next academic year. [[PSD applause.]] There are countries, such as France, which have already launched a family support package with the aim of supporting about one million children by September. There are countries that are pondering, others have already decided, the anticipation of the school year. These are measures that are in fact being implemented and discussed in other countries, but in Portugal there is no political commitment by the Government. Therefore, what we have to do is demand this kind of response from the government, because it should have been one of the main concerns of the government, i.e. to ensure a plan to resume the education system to safeguard, above all, the most fragile, the most vulnerable, those who have been in a much more penalized situation with the closing of schools' presence since March this year. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u33	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u34	Mr President, Mrs Joana Mortágua, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the subject which brings the debate here and then I would like to say that the NAP generally accompanies this proposal. However, we would like it to be more ambitious and contribute to the beginning of the reduction of the number of students per class beyond the period of COVID-19. So we wanted to ask you whether the Left Block would be available to follow this same position beyond this context of COVID-19. On the other hand, I wanted to tell you that, in the view of the NAP, this return, with social distance measures and individual protection measures, must also be accompanied by the proper tests, whether they are tracking or combined with serological tests, in order to better understand what is group immunity and, in essence, we will also ensure greater security for all. What we would like to know is whether the Left Block, in addition to this concern with reducing the number of students per class, also shares this other concern with the regular and pro-active screening of COVID-19 in the context of educational communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u35	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes and Mrs Bebiana Cunha, I thank the questions put. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, the Left Bloc has always defended the reduction in the number of students per class, a reduction in which there are several pedagogical arguments, but at the moment our priority is that children can, in time of pandemic, have access to quality education, of course with all the necessary health and safety conditions. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, I began by saying that the time to act in the Assembly of the Republic is when the government fails the call and is stopped.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u37	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u38	The honourable Member acknowledged that the government is standing, but she believes that the Assembly of the Republic has nothing to do and has no position on whether or not children should go back to school and what investment is necessary for them to return to school. The proposal of the Left Block is very flexible and is nothing less than a practical translation of what the DGS has said in relation to many other sectors involving people's assemblies. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u39	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The education system went into lockdown abruptly on 16 March, two weeks after the end of the second period. With much preparatory work during Easter holidays, it was possible, in the third period, to give an "emergency" response to the disruption, improvising in real time distance teaching, either online or analog, via television. It was a considerable effort of teachers, students, directors, parents—and, I know, guardianship itself—with many asymmetries in execution. But if performance has not always been excellent, the effort has been and therefore deserves our praise. This forced migration for distance learning—and it is worth noting that it had to be forced by the end of the school year—has exposed structural inequalities and added new conjuncural difficulties. Students from disadvantaged socio-economic contexts and students with learning difficulties also needed extra support and the presence of their teachers; there were asymmetries caused by the limitations of the transport network, in the case of students of 11. o and 12. the years; and it was clear that the vast majority of the education system was not qualified to use productively and profitably digitally. These previous inequalities were amplified by the reality of many families, without access to the Internet, without computers for all their children, which meant that many students ended up not going to school, remaining behind, further behind. This time made it clear that the school has an essential role as a social mobility mechanism, which is in school that the most vulnerable can find the ambition and the tools to carry out life projects and that through school, the sharing of space, ideas and everyday life are shared, even though it comes from different starting points. Keeping students away from this daily cohabitation would be to confine each one to the space — physical and horizon — of its origin, and inequalities would worsen-CL. You do not want to return to teaching at a distance. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now two months from the beginning of next school year. If in normal times the schools would be organizing next year, in time of more demanding and laborious exceptionality it becomes this preparation. And, as has already been said, what did the government know about returning to school? That the same will begin between 14 and 17 September, that they are intended to be present and that the first five weeks of classes will be for review of the given matter. It's not a big plan. Actually, it can't be a plan. And even as soon as it was said, there are contradictions. So the government that defended and passed a decree of autonomy and curriculum flexibility is the same as announcing a centralized and equal measure for all schools, of five weeks of classes to review the matter of the previous year? But will it be for all disciplines? And for all the students, you want to, you don't want to? And the matter of the rest of the year condenses? The guardianship has done a study and knows—even more than the principals of the schools, who have already proved critical—what is best for each student, from Viana do Castelo or Bragança to Vila Real de Santo António or Faro? And if so, where is this study? What if the first five weeks of classes are going to be spent studying the subject that was left behind, then they won't need students from school textbooks? But how can you consult them if the families, according to the office of the Secretary of State Susana Amador on 9 June, will have to return them from Friday? Clearly, it doesn't make sense and it won't even happen. Responsible and consequent would be the Ministry to suspend exceptionally, this year, the obligation to return the manuals and take charge. And that is exactly what the CDS proposes in this Supplementary Budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : the Ministry expects general guidelines, on the lecture schedule, essential learnings, the use of masks, the regular disinfection of spaces, testing protocols and tracking in case of contamination, the shift of hours to avoid agglomerates, among others of this nature. It is expected that the Ministry will ask and give schools the conditions to exercise their autonomy and define solutions for educational success in each context — geographical, social and public health. And it is expected that the school, in turn, will give each student, who has a name and a journey that his teachers know, the impulse he will need in September. It is expected that the Ministry will not give in to micro-management, imposing equal and transversal rules, and that it will assume, on behalf of all of us, the strictly necessary bill. Students, parents, teachers and the entire educational community hope that the Ministry will ensure that the school is a safe place, because in September, the school will be the new "frontline" where we will leave our children while we are going to work, where we trust that they are learning from the best preparation they can be given, where we hope that support for inclusive education will be strengthened, where school sports will be a means for a healthy mind in the body and where the digital will have the opportunity to be empowered, without any withdrawal from the presence, which we have proved to be of no equal value in these months. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u41	Ms Alexandra Tavares de Moura, but Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has no time to answer. I ask the Socialist Party if you do not want to give a minute to the CDS-PP for Mrs Ana Rita Bessa to be able to answer. Otherwise, it has been the practice of the Bureau to give the floor to ask for clarification even when there is no time to answer, which, in practice, is an out-of-order intervention. In any case, this is the practice which the Bureau has followed repeatedly, I will give the floor to Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura to ask for clarification, which will not have an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u42	Mr President, the PS is one minute away for the honourable Member to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u43	All right, the PS yields 1 minute to the answer. Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u44	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we realize that at this time you still have many questions to ask us. We would also like to have some clues and solutions to point us out. As you know, no one at this time—I repeat, no one— anywhere in Europe can know exactly what the next day will be like. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mrs. Member, I'd like to play on a subject that was a little forgotten by you. I remember that it was with the Socialist Party that the simplification and administrative modernization began and so spoken digitization. Today, like 14 years ago, it was the Socialist Party that assumed the importance of this path as an essential vector for territorial cohesion and the fight against inequalities. over these years, it was the governments of the Socialist Party that developed innovative policies that promote the principle of « one-time» relationship with the state. We develop measures that bet on digital. We develop measures that encourage the sharing and reuse of resources. We develop measures that use emerging technologies, such as artificial intelligence. Yes, we are advocates of simplifying people's lives and business life. We are advocates of increased efficiency in Public Administration and we will do everything to ensure that innovation is an ally of the social state, thus ensuring more and better services. This design was not forgotten in times of pandemic. It was not the confinement, nor the defination, which encouraged us in this way, Mrs Deputies. Therefore, it is important to remember what we have done in recent months: we have created technological instruments for online enrollment in exams; we have conducted the external competition of teachers fully online; we have created a new registration portal for the realization of this administrative act covering all levels of education, from pre-school to secondary level, and all public, private and IPSS institutions ( private institutions of social solidarity) or even; and we have also made available a tool that aims to ensure the response to all emails that are sent to the Directorate-General for School Administration ( DGAE ). Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the question I ask you for your reflection is whether you do not consider the CDS which, during confinement, the Ministry of Education was able to take this time to continue the program of digitization of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u45	It's not going on, it's starting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u46	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, has one minute, handed over by the PS, to answer. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u47	Mr President, I thank the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group for giving me the opportunity to respond. And I'll do it in two times. With regard to uncertainty, Mrs Deputies, you are absolutely right, no one knows what will happen in three months. But it seems to me that it is the responsibility of the guardianship to have at least one plan A. And, Madam Member, I must tell you that no one really knows what is going to happen, but there are several countries — such as Ireland, France, Spain or the United Kingdom — that already have a plan for returning to school. Surely circumstances can change and a different plan may need to be drawn. What can't be done is that you think we're coming to September and improvising, because that seems to me very little consistent with the great apology of the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u48	That's not what we did in the years of crisis!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u49	With regard to the defence of digital, if you had done so much in these months by the digital as Mrs Deputies mentioned, firstly, it would not have been necessary to enter the Supplementary Budget, as the only words related to education, EUR 400 million, just to do what you have not done so far, and secondly, you would have already fulfilled the promise, of which I will never forget, from the Prime Minister, when you presented Telescola, that the academic year, in September, would start with a computer per student. Where's that promise going? Probably as far away as your words. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u50	To say that, I didn't need a minute!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u51	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this context, for the NAP, there was clear certainty that the academic year should not be lost because of the COVID-19. But to do so, the return to present classes would have to be cautious, progressive and safe for all elements of the educational community. In addition, in meeting with the Government, at the decision-making of the face-to-face resumption of educational activities, we warned that this should be done in a gradual, strictly necessary logic, without neglecting the concerns expressed by families and young people, in particular with regard to conducting examinations to improve grades, ensuring that school projects and the future of young people are not involved. That is why we do not understand how, on the one hand, the government assumes the return of about 200 000 students to the context of present classes and then failed to or did not strive to find a fair response for students who wanted to improve their grades and who needed this improvement in order to continue their dreams. And, compared to last year, in disciplines such as Economy, how did the government, with this decision, reduce the number of exams by eight? We are still to see if the public of the Champions League will not be greater than the number of students who will be prevented from making a grade improvement. But also in this context, for all students who were away, it was essential to guarantee digital accessibility conditions, which did not happen. The NAP also proposed that the Government be able to set up a plan to guarantee digital transition with municipalities, inter-municipal communities and metropolitan areas, providing access to computer equipment and the network for students who do not have access to these means, but the Government decided to push with the belly for the next school year. Digital transition is a legitimate process to which education cannot stay apart, but it cannot also be built on inequalities. Let us hope that in this renewal of computer equipment students in schools will not be forgotten. This period, although forced by the COVID-19, brings us important reflections and learnings. The NAP will continue to fight for the implementation of models aimed at education that promote cooperation and empathy more than competitiveness and individualism; promote respect for and appreciation of all its elements, ensuring working conditions and effective professional valorization of teaching and non-teaching staff, an inspiring school, promoting freedom to think and build knowledge, where learning is done without drawers, interdisciplinary, and where processes are more important than content. If there is something we learn in this period is that educational models can also change, educational communities have an exceptional ability of adaptation and dedication, the school-family-society relationship should not be limited to times of crisis and that in the midst of the difficulties have created so many other bridges that perhaps have been unknown until now. If there is anything we can remove from this crisis is the strength and resilience of educational communities and this cannot be lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u53	To make a request for clarification, Mr Nuno Fazenda has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Deputy, a protocol was signed yesterday between the Government and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities with a view to reducing asbestos in Portuguese public schools. Also yesterday was published in Diário da República, an office that recognizes the terms in which this asbestos will be removed and which identifies, with all transparency, all the schools that will be intervention. But it is worth noting that this concern is not today, it is not new, because, in good rigour, this is intensifying the work that has been done in the last legislature, where more than 200 public schools have been intervened. What is now intended is to respond definitely, immediately, more forcefully to the improvement of our public schools. The removal of asbestos from schools is a measure contained in the Stabilization Programme submitted by the Government and its implementation is based on the following facts: firstly, on an investment of around EUR 60 million; secondly, on a 100 % financing by Community funds; thirdly, on the intervention at 578 public schools for the removal of all structures with asbestos; and fourthly, on an important partnership between the Government, which creates the conditions for financing, and the municipalities, which are the owners of interventions in all schools, which do not pay for this removal, is paid by the Government through Community funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u55	It's not the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u56	in this context, it is strange that the NAP has said nothing about this very important initiative to remove asbestos in our schools. Was it because you applauded the initiative or because you didn't notice it? In fact, when initiatives are positive, as is the case, it would be good for the NAP to welcome this action by the Government and the Portuguese municipalities, even because this has also been a concern of the NAP. So I also leave you this note to comment on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u57	In reply, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u58	Mr President, Mr Nuno Fazenda, I would like to thank you for your request for clarification and to tell you that yesterday we had the opportunity, at the hearing of the Minister of Territorial Cohesion, to ask a number of questions on this very subject, about these EUR 60 million, which are European funds, I know - well, but also, above all, to know what the real commitment of the Government to the timing of this programme and what priorities, because the order it speaks well is not clear in this matter. For the NAP, it is essential that the government assume a very concrete timetable, because it is a problem that has been dragging itself from 2011 and that has led to the disease several people, many of them dying even by contact with asbestos. So that is what we expect from the government to solve this problem once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u59	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now turn to one more intervention. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of DOS Verdes, I begin this speech by greeting all the professionals who have ensured that the public school of this, despite the difficulties, answers to the students of the country. We greet the teachers, the operational assistants, the entire school community, for the work with the students, who only surprised those who do not know the magic that happens every day in some school establishments where everything lacks the commitment and commitment of their workers to the students. We greet all those who did not lower their arms in front of a virus that forced the radical changes from day to day of all and engage in the search for solutions so that no student would stay behind. Unfortunately, as a result of decades of uninvestment, public, democratic and inclusive school has fallen. For years we have seen the recommendations for the recovery of the school park that have been postponed by all governments and thus arrived at 2020 with unconditional schools. Material and human conditions are felt by the successive governments on the pretext of policies to control public expenditure. The public school was decharacterized and is further away from fulfilling the fundamental role in the education and training of children, young people and adults. But this pandemic has brought about a nude inequality with children and young people who were not so addicted to new technologies, because some of them didn't have internet at home and the most recent numbers indicate that this number has been the result of a decrease in family income. It was quick to identify the needs of technological tools for students of all ages and even teachers, because each school community knows its students, its professionals and recognizes their needs. The question is whether the government has realized that investment in education is urgent and the appreciation of teachers is not made of praise and thanks but, rather, the guarantee of their rights, since the students' school success is only realized with a society committed to offering them the school they deserve. The Greens claim a policy that does not call into question the right of everyone to enjoy a public school of quality, democracy, inclusive, universal and free. Despite the effort we had previously reported, in this forty years many students were left behind because they did not have technological means, because they had to share the only computer of the family with their brothers and their working parents, because they did not have the Internet, because family income did not allow, because they did not live in structured families, because already before the COVID-19 they had problems, especially housing, which had worsened with isolation. The school community tried to react, even before any directive of the Ministry of Education, and even with these directives attended various orientations by the groups: some maintained the educational schedules, transformed into synchronous activity; others did not take place, with all intermediate nuances; there were groupings with planning and teaching of new curricular content and others only with content consolidation actions. The autonomy of schools has never been so beneficial for the government to pass through the raindrops and shake the water from the hood! However, students, teachers and parents are tired because they were called to give a quick and minimally effective response without having had time to prepare, adapt. The next school year, without great surprises, seems to be being aligned again without the participation of those concerned. It may even start without all teachers being guaranteed the right to a well-deserved holiday and rest. It will be necessary to create conditions that allow operational students, teachers and assistants to return to school, because it is in school that children and young people learn, socialize, respect, accept the difference, know and grow on equal opportunities. Education is at school and school has to go back. This implies, of course, the significant decrease in the number of students per class, proposed since 2015 Green peelos and that in 2020 it has not yet been fully implemented. The reduction in the number of students per class will not only serve to meet the required distancement, which will bring new requirements to the Ministry of Education, such as hiring more teachers. It will also be very important for teachers to be able to contribute to their duties, ensuring closer and more effective follow-up to students. Investing in quality public education is investing in a promising and qualified future for the country. The opposite means compromising its potential and disqualifying the country and the exemplary behavior of the school community deserves to be marked by stability and compliance with needs. [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u61	Mrs. Members, as you have naturally noticed, the time for this intervention has been attributed to the PS, which will be duly reimbursed. It was a test to the attention with which the gentlemen. Members are following the sitting and have all passed, taking into account the number of complaints that have reached the Bureau. [[Laughing.]] For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having announced the start of the next school year for the days from 14 to 17 September, all necessary measures should be taken to ensure the safety of students and workers, considering the various scenarios of the evolution of the epidemiological outbreak. in this context, the regulatory order of organisation of the school year 2020 / 2021 will be crucial so that adaptations can be made in a minimally timely manner, taking into account that there are even changes that have to be made. This is the case of smaller classes, to ensure physical distancement, to be determined by the health authorities, within the classrooms; more assistants, to ensure safety, cleaning and hygiene; more specialized technicians, for increased monitoring and support of students; more teachers and educators, to overcome the learning deficits of undeveloped curricular content and aggravated inequalities, and to avoid the abuses and illegalities that telework has created and aggravated. In addition, action by the Government is required to ensure that failure and dropout are not a major problem in the coming academic year and even in subsequent years. Thus, in addition to strengthening the number of workers who guarantee the safety and support of students in educational terms, it is urgent to provide socio-economic measures for students and their families, taking into account the increase in unemployment, the loss of income and the overall worsening of the situation of workers. It is therefore also urgent to strengthen social action at school. The Supplementary Budget may and should provide the missing answers that have not yet been guaranteed by the Government. And there is no lack of the PCP proposals for this to happen: we have entered, precisely, a proposal to ensure the strengthening of the recruitment of all the necessary workers and the immediate opening of the competitions for the integration of non-teaching workers of the various careers and categories whose process of PREVPAP(Special Regularization Programme of Precincts in Public Administration) has already been approved, and also another to strengthen the social action in compulsory public education, increasing the various values of participation. Also missing, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, make a serious and deep balance of this period in which solutions were adopted at a distance. In the survey stimulated by FENPROF, teachers pointed out that one of the unwanted fruits of this situation was, and I quote, "The inequality among students, which has worsened, in some cases dangerously. The main reasons for this are the lack of support, which, for some, are absolutely indispensable and also the social issues which have become even more problematic, with two million workers remaining in layoffs or unemployment. Do not keep on seeking. ” The teachers also refer to the wear and wear, which stem from various factors, « (...) ranging from the need for adaptation to an unpublished model of activity to the fact that it is much more complicated, being far away, to accompany all students and to meet the specific educational needs of each one; it also contributes to this wear the fact that professional activity has taken account of all hours of the day and, by invading each teacher's home, to make it difficult for each teacher to make it indispensable and healthy to separate family life». "Teaching is not this, nor anything like it. For many technology that exists and can be used, nothing replaces face-to-face teaching', teachers say, in the survey of FenPROF. And they say more: « All the resources used by me were bought / paid... by me: computer, internet and phone. No one ever asked me if I wanted or could use my computer and/or phone... marked the synchronized classes without listening to the teachers. In houses with shared computers is a problem». « Where are the supplements for light, internet, phone calls( + 10 hours of phone calls for school subjects), printer...? Do not keep on seeking. ” « The teaching work tripled. Students are looking for us all the time and every day I receive requests for clarifications and papers sent at 23 or 24 hours... There are no more weekends and working days often arrive at 12 and 14 hours/day. Do not keep on seeking. ” « Teachers' working hours are being significantly violated by higher authorities. There is no respect for working hours. Do not keep on seeking. ” « It is highly exhausting to maintain and conjugate: class management work, constant support for education managers, teacher of various classes with different levels, hundreds of daily contacts of the 110 students, conduct video conferences... and be charged with education to support two children at different levels of schooling! Oh, my God! I don't know if I'll last until June 26! Do not keep on seeking. ” The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be the exceptional rule. It is necessary to ensure all safety conditions and to work for return to normality. To this end, the reduction in the number of students per class is an important element and therefore the CFP accompanies the proposal under discussion today. The classes should already be smaller, according to the PCP so many times proposed, and the situation that we currently live has shown how it would be fundamental. However, we must not fail to mention that this proposal would have to be substantially altered so that it could be at least feasible, especially in a short time, which is what we have until we resume classes. There are consequences that have to be properly prepared and thought out. For example, if there is no space in schools to make this decrease, exactly in the numbers that have been proposed, where will the students go? In our view, they couldn't go to the private, so what would happen? Were you staying at home? How would this be organized? How would it be done in the cases of teachers in whom teachers are missing and where there has been no placement, because they are not in the system at this time? These are issues that need to be taken into account. The CFP considers that, in such a situation as that we go through, more than a rule-and-frame solution, it would be essential to define the short-term definition of health standards which, by ensuring the strict care for the health, hygiene and safety of students and workers, would allow schools, taking into account their autonomy, better be able to make the necessary reduction and adaptations, taking into account the characteristics of each establishment, of each room, of each equipment. The CFP is on the side of the educational community's demand to take appropriate and timely action by the government, which has also taken too long to include the various educational partners and, in particular, the unions in the discussion on the preparation of the next school year. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u63	Mrs Ana Mesquita, the Bureau shall register a Member to request clarification. To that end, Mrs Carla Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u64	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I thank you for your speech, which I have listened very carefully. As you know, PCP and PS don't always agree, of course...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u65	Luckily!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u66	And happily, obviously. As I was saying, the CFP and the PS do not always agree, but the bet on a public school for everyone, that it is inclusive, that ensuring equity and that it is the engine of social mobility is certainly not something that separates us. It's good to know where we've come from, in the work of the last four years. We saw a school that guaranteed school textbooks and educational digital resources for all, dignified vocational education, strengthened pre-school, financially stabilized artistic education, valued teachers and non-teachers, frozen careers, strengthened social action, among many other measures to promote public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Having said this, we know that in these times of uncertainty, the inequalities in learning have exponentially increased. They are not new, but they have worsened. And so much is not new that I remember that last year we had the lowest school failure rates of the decade, the result of a bet on strategic educational measures, such as the implementation of the National School Success Promotion Program and the creation of specific tutorial support. Tutorials are, in fact, a measure that meets the specific learning needs of small groups of students and without them many students would be irremediably behind. The tutors do not work the school or class, work the student, their specific difficulties, their working methods, motivation, and work appropriately to the specificity of different cases. At the end of the last legislature, we had reached 32 000 students per year, more than 600 teachers per year, with an investment of more than EUR 12 million per year. We left for next school year knowing that this is one of the most important tools to fight inequality and promote success. We have recently adopted a resolution proposed by the CFP, with our contributions and our votes, which reinforces the fight against precariousness, the appreciation of professionals and teachers and the enhancement of labour rights. As such, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the challenges are many and there is still much to do, but I cannot help but ask you the following: does she not consider that the public school is today more resilient and strengthened with the measures taken over the past four years? Don't you think tools such as tutoring are indispensable to fighting inequalities? Do you not think that the draft resolution we have recently adopted is designed to dignify the public school and the education system we need for tomorrow? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u67	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u68	Mr President, Mrs Carla Sousa, I am grateful for the questions you have raised to the CFP Parliamentary Group, but the truth is that this is not enough. And the truth is that what the CFP has always considered — that there was a need for an increase in investment in public school, more determined, that there was a need for a much greater hiring of workers, which needed to have much more means available in schools — proved to be profoundly correct to the situation that we are now going through. The numerous proposals presented by the CFP, including the reduction of the number of students per class, had been approved during these four years when the Socialist Party was in government and we would be in very much better conditions today to deal with those who are the extremely difficult challenges that public school has to face and that cannot be answered. And the PCP once again has proposals, and it has proposals for the Supplementary Budget, what it is necessary to see if the Socialist Party will follow them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u69	Mr Tiago Esteves Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two major temptations in this debate on the coming academic year. Of course, the first temptation is to try to rewrite the story about the response of the school to the pandemic, as if the given answer had not been an overcome challenge, in which the State was able to respond promptly and safely. But there is also a second temptation, which is not to acknowledge in this debate that there are legitimate issues that are posed and that reflect the importance of school in the formation of a fairer country, of culture and of knowledge. It is to these legitimate questions that we here seek to answer, with a word of confidence and stability, but above all with the assurance that we will never act by impulse or anxiety.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u72	We know that recreating stability in times of uncertainty is always a challenge, that, for some, we are always going too fast, while for others, we will always be too slow and there are always those who ask to close schools, when they are open, and those who ask to open up, when they are closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u74	However, chaos is not faced with anxiety and precipitation, but with stability and determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is important that, in this collective commitment, we achieve the fundamental thing: to maintain the course and build a framework of trust in which everyone can see. This has been the government's line of action and this is the only possible way to deal with uncertainty, uncertainty which led us to close schools on 16 March, but also to establish a stability framework in April for all 3. the period, so that, in the next two and a half months, everyone knew what to count. The intensity of the times we have experienced sometimes makes us doubt that so little time has passed, that only three and a half months ago we spent, one day on the other, a 100 % face-to-face model for a 100 % model at a distance or even that, in a month, if it has created a structure now so familiar, the initiative # StudyEmCasa, so often called « Telescola». But in these three months, we have also been able to draw an approach of progressive defination, which from this confidence to all: to students, to families, but also to teachers and all workers, which is not solely a task. The entire school community has made a huge effort. It was worth it, it avoided the loss of the ties of the educational relationship and that this was a lost year. We owe the ability to respond to this emergency teaching to students, educators, teachers, technicians, but we also owe it to parents, families, all of them so different, who sometimes lack the hours of sleep to practice these new professions: telework, full-time parenthood and support teaching distance from their children. These parents and mothers are, too, teachers, doctors, nurses, police, home workers, lawyers, precarious, unemployed, many forced to manage telework with support for children at home, 24 hours a day, others, many, forced to manage the follow-up of several children in various stages of the school course, with the concern of the loss of wages and jobs, or simply with uncertainty in the face of the unknown. to parents and mothers, who have a life, but who have lived it all this time also according to their children, we should be grateful, certain that we would not have been able to give the answer we have given without their sacrifice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The best way to thank the parents is to guarantee them that everything will be done so that the next school year will be decorated in closer proximity to what we know as normal, in a model that will necessarily be adapted to times of uncertainty that are approaching. Nothing replaces the teacher and the classroom and certainly does not align in utopian views of distance teaching, which is a useful tool, but does not replace the integrity of the educational relationship, which is the interaction, emotion and human experience of proximity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u76	It is therefore time to ambition to go further, with what we have all learned in recent months, and to rethink the school in the light of what these times have brought us. The teaching model we have found in times of emergency is not a real option and has assumed failures: inequalities have worsened and difficulties are perceived by the naked eye. That is why we cannot look at the next school year as if nothing had happened and we must bear in mind the fundamental concern of not leaving anyone behind and betting on learning recovery. That is why the position of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has to be given particular attention to those who need the most and on whom the greatest impact of distancement has fallen: younger students, and therefore less autonomous, but also groups at risk of social exclusion. The government, as it has done on a regular basis about the response to the pandemic, will listen to school leaders, parents, educators and trade unions about the plans for the next school year, knowing that, in view of the unknown, we will always have to prepare different scenarios and contingency plans for different scenarios of the pandemic evolution. We must give priority to safety, respecting the guidelines of health institutions, but we must also be prepared to adapt the response of public school to these circumstances. If the country and the government have reacted in March to the new situation of schools, they will also know, from now on until September, to launch a school year that leaves no one behind, presenting and discussing concrete plans with the educational partners to define a course. You may not want to anticipate what the world will be in three months' time, but we must be prepared and persist in the fundamental idea that everyone has the same right to education and success. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our conviction that we do not face chaos with anxiety but with stability. The stability that enables us to have confidence so that we can aspire to return to classes, for all, in the coming academic year. But one thing is certain: who thinks to be certain at this stage can only have precipitation and, therefore, there is a need for caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u78	The pandemic is not over. What has changed was that today we will be more prepared to know how to deal with the virus. As public decision makers, we are required to be humble, but also to be convinced that in the midst of uncertainty we must make decisions and that this requires that we have the ability to maintain the course and not act by impulse or anxiety. To decide with reason and with heart—that is the commitment of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u79	Mr Tiago Esteves Martins, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification. How do you want to answer? [[Pause.]] Mr Tiago Esteves Martins informed the Bureau that he will answer together. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Esteves Martins... [[Stephen!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u81	I'm sorry, Mr. Tiago Estêvão Martins. What we are discussing is not the past, what we have already done, but that is what we are going to do in the future and how we are going to resume the present classes, ensuring the safety of all students, of all professionals and also restoring the confidence of families in the educational process and in the present classes, so that everyone can feel confident so that they can let their children and their daughters return to school. Despite the good experiences we have had in implementing distance education, we know, and we are all in agreement with this, that this exposed and aggravated inequalities between students and students, especially for younger students, those of more vulnerable families with less resources and literacy and students with special educational needs. This is clear to all of us and we need to respond to it. Many students have stopped being contacted by teachers — the data collected by FENPROF tells us that. Many others were unable to follow school activities, even though they were linked, despite distance teaching. There were others, those with educational needs, those who needed specific resources, who could not have the support and resources they needed either. Therefore, we need to recover what was lost with the suspension of the presence activities. The Prime Minister stated that, and I quote, « the first objective for the school year 2020 / 2021 will be the recovery of this year's learning deficits ». However, the Prime Minister tells us nothing about how he will do it and what measures he will achieve. In the Supplementary Budget, which was presented as a public investment tool to contain damage and recover losses, the Government has made EUR 400 million available for digital transition in schools, but not a word, no indication of what money will be used to finance compensatory measures for lost learning. There is no single reference to public school and to the needs added in the next school year for the recovery of meaning retrocesses in many children and in many students with special educational needs. The question I ask you, Mr President, is how the Government wishes, and I will quote the Prime Minister, «to guarantee this generation that not only has you lost the year as you have not missed the opportunity to learn»? How is that going to be done, Mr? Another question I have to ask relates to the Minister of Education's claim that there will be a strong stake next school year in specific tutorial support. I believe that this strong bet can be achieved through the recovery and support of unaccompanied learning to rebuild the successful relationship with the school, respecting the safety rules of the Directorate-General for Health. Do you not think that this can be achieved by reducing the number of students per class? Do you not think that the best way to ensure family trust and security is, I repeat, to reduce the number of students per class? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u82	The honourable Member whom I called three times Esteves Martins is named Stephen Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u84	Over time, an apology from the Bureau. I won't forget your name any more. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u85	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, we would like to ask you a number of questions. Obviously, we are discussing the reduction in the number of students per class, but the NAP considers that in the next school year one should start a path to other reductions, such as the reduction of excessive housework, which take time for families and our children, after a day of school and a day of work, the reduction of extensive programs, which take time to develop critical and creative thinking. At last, less, sometimes, is more and more, often, is less! But it is also necessary to ensure a number of fundamental aspects, such as enhancing the profession of teacher through working and career conditions; ensuring that there is a long-term political vision for the profession of teacher, because we know well that we have an aging teaching population and that it is necessary to attract young people to this profession; ensuring not only that non-teachers are properly valued, that there is work continuity and that they have the training needed to respond to needs, but also that students are, in fact, the centre of learning processes. What we would like to ask you, honourable Member, is whether the Socialist Party will be available to undertake the necessary changes in education, adapting our education to the requirements of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u86	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr António Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, thanking you for your intervention, I begin by telling you that the directors assume that distance education has been met with many constraints and inequalities for students. We believe that, given the speed with which the Minister of Education has self-confessed, he would be even off, despite the propaganda of 'we are on with schools'. The Minister was off when he went to schools to organize distance learning with obsolete computer media. The Minister was on when he asked for a survey of the number of students who did not have computer resources to access distance education, but was off when neither one, I repeat, nor a computer was transferred by the Ministry of Education to schools for delivery to the most deprived students! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u88	Here, they were on the authorities, who did everything to provide the equipment missing to our students.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u90	They have also been teachers and assistants, teachers, who have not abandoned their students to their lot and who, with their computers, with their tablets, with their fixed or mobile internet, with their mobile phone calls, with their electrical energy, have ensured distance teaching, from their homes or from their cars, somewhere on the top of some mountain with broadband network! At your expense! Oh, my God! Even so, how many students would have stayed behind or because they didn't have a computer, or because they didn't have internet coverage in their homes, or because they didn't adapt to distance teaching, or because their education managers had to choose between increased spending with the purchase of equipment for distance teaching and food at the table? Calm down! The digital miracle, the « We'll all be fine! » in schools, at home and by the way, there is a distance from an ad. In April, Prime Minister announced that he had the clear objective of starting next school year by ensuring universal access to the network and equipment for all students of basic and secondary education. He said here that the school would never be the same, because « more digital, where digital resources will begin to be part of the work tools of the day between students and teachers », « whatever happens ». After all, Mr President, what do you know about the announced arrival of the digital revolution to the Portuguese school? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u91	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u92	After all, Mrs. and Mrs. Members and those who listen to us at home, so to speak, the promise of providing schools with the necessary technological means had already been announced in 2016, but it was captivated! It has been repeated in the State budget for 2020 and is now again set out by the PEES, the Economic and Social Stabilisation Programme, but I fear that it will again « carry the feet », once again. About this, two months from the start of the school year we know we don't know anything! We know that there is no realisation of universalization of access to digital tools, nor of the distribution of computers by students and schools. In fact, it is the starting point of the next academic year that is a picture of indefinition, confusion, disorientation, inaction and uncertainty. We all want a return to normality, to present education in our schools. The country needs, our students need. We think we know that the government's plan A goes through the opening of the school year between 14 and 17 September because, says the Minister, it gives time to prepare for the educational community. Now, I ask you, but we're not going to have between September 1 and September 7 to 2. the phase of exams in schools? It is seen that the Minister, by this statement and by this announced date, does not know what it is to close a school year and to start with another in our schools! The government also announced that the first five weeks would be for the recovery of learning, but surprisingly sent the school textbooks handed over to families. Don't worry about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u93	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u94	I'm done, Mr. President. For the start of the next school year, we finally have a poor plan and that little is known. Given the uncertainty you mentioned, should not schools already be preparing for a plan B, or still a plan C, given the number of infected people who have been increasing? If you agree, what are they? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u95	Mr Tiago Estévão Martins, to respond to requests for clarification, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u96	Mr President, I would like to thank all the questions that have been raised here and which I will try to answer in a synthetic way. I would like to begin with the question by Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u97	Mr President, I am very sorry to interrupt you, but I was inscribed, to ask for clarification, Mr André Ventura and, for my part, I did not give you the floor. As Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins wants to answer together, with an apology for the delay, I give the floor to Mr André Ventura. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u98	Mr President, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins, the PS presents itself today in this debate, saying that it was, and is, done. He spoke of the reduction in asbestos, although it was six years after the approval of the diploma that he had already given it. He spoke of the teachers and their appreciation, but the teachers continue to enter the tables, on average, at 50 years of age. It is a bit like the Prime Minister did when he went to the Arcos de Valdevez school and said « we will invest 4, 1 million euros », but he forgot to say that 2, 7 million euros came from Europe and that 1, 2 million euros came from the municipality. Therefore, the government's investment was indeed very residual. As you know, in 2018, a study on European digitisation was carried out. Portugal is in 17. the place in 28 countries. Tenth seventh! Therefore, it is time for the PS to explain here what this revolution is going to be and where is the miracle of digitization, because we are still waiting for you, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u99	Now yes, Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u100	Mr President, with this further question, I would like to thank you again for the questions that have been raised. I would like to start by addressing Mrs PAN, saying that the Socialist Party's concern is always investment in public school and, of course, that will be the plan we will always follow in our political line. But in this debate, I would also like to address a word to the Left Block, because he came here saying he didn't know anything about next school year, but apparently he's sure it's going to go wrong. That is why I would like there to be at least one clarification on which line you are defending. It is because, frankly, it is a little confusing what is the point of view of the Left Block for this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u101	But we have a bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u102	As for what the CDS has insinuated and that the PSD has come true — the CDS has no time to answer but has raised the veil and the PSD has come back and now you know how it should close the school year — I must say, Mr António Cunha, that we have learned that prognosis at the end of the game is with the PSD. This is because waiting for the last week of classes to come and say how the 3 should go. The period is something I don't even know how to qualify. [[P.S.'s applause.]] He therefore lent himself to the role of coming here to do a little the caricature of the « master of works done ». I must tell you that, as you know and as your party, when the decision was taken, you also understood, what you have been trying to do was to provide a framework for stability so that all members of the educational community would know what to expect by the end of the year. I believe that we are clarified on what position the PSD is in this debate. Mr António Cunha also told me that if none of this were not the authorities, it would have been possible. I cannot see in this statement an attack, even because, as you well know, the Socialist Party is the largest authentic party in the country, but, as it is logical, in an emergency situation, it would be strange if we had the ability to respond without everyone doing their part. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Antonio Cunha.]] I must say that the parish councils and the municipalities have had an absolutely decisive role and therefore, yes, it was teamwork, we are all recognised to the authorities—in fact, this would not have been possible if they had not all contributed. It is obviously a sign of the State's strength and not a sign of its weakness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u103	With regard to the statements being made about the hypothetical confinement of the Ministry of Education, I believe that the objective is to try to wear out Mr. Minister's image, but I must say that, even last week... [[No, you don't have to!]] [[No, you don't have to!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u104	He does it on his own!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u105	I must say, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, let me...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u106	Politician! Politician!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u107	I must say, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already seen that the interest of the debate is indeed this — that this accusation is absolutely false. I don't know what data you'll have based on, but I'd like to give you some weighting elements. Throughout this period, without spreading, dozens of documents with hundreds of guidelines were issued, tools were created, such as the School Support website and was also created, as you well know, a platform, E 72, to provide responses in less than 72 hours. I don't know if you know how many answers were given, but in advance, about 10,000 responses were given during this period. And do you know how many answers were given in less than 72 hours? It was 99 % of the replies. So I tell you, I don't know which data you will have based on, but the statement you make is objectively false. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u108	As for the PSD reference to delays in the school year, I must say that whenever the PSD speaks late in the school year an adorine dies. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u109	No one's been talking late!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u110	He spoke, he spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u111	As you know, the big difference is that you are. Members have also been in the government and know that, even under normal circumstances, this is a difficult operation, it is a slow operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u112	We all remember what the PSD school year openings were! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u113	The strange thing is that in a pandemic, the honourable Member would be so sure to say that we should have answers at this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u115	It is also a bit of the statement that Mrs Beatriz Gomes has left us when she says that there are no answers for the next school year. I must say that I have no way of agreeing, because, in the middle of a pandemic, three months from the beginning of the classes and still during the school year, I think it is a little difficult to be certain that some parties here seem to have. Even if they say they don't know anything about the next school year, they say they already know it's going to be a failure. I must therefore make it very clear that it is a bit strange that, in the academic year with greater uncertainty, all the answers are asked here at this time when no one has them. But if the Left Block has these answers, we'd like them to be given. The answers that the Left Block brought to us here also have to do with the criticism that makes the Supplementary Budget. I must say that there is more life beyond the Budget, especially beyond the Supplementary Budget which, as the name says, is a supplementary budget, so it does not mean that it exhausts the options of the Government, such as it does not limit contracts, when necessary and, obviously, within a framework of needs and economic rationality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u116	If I am asked whether the State budget accommodates the hiring of double teachers, well, the answer is obvious: it does not accommodate, it does not accommodate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u118	I must also say that it is strangely that I see that you are. Members have made the list of schools with asbestos a flag and now, in this debate, little has been heard on the subject. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] This question also arises, for example, with regard to the PSD which during this period only spoke on computers and on the Internet and today has not heard a word on the matter. I would like to know whether what is important to the PSD — or at least to the debate in this debate — is only what is not done. Honestly, I think that also says a lot about this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u120	I end with a brief statement about our goal. Our goal is that all students have the possibility to return to school in the closest possible model of normal, always safeguarding their safety, but also that of teachers, employees and families. That's what you're working on, and that's what you're going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u121	Mrs. Members, I inform you that the Left Block, as is your right, has requested the vote on this bill at the end of the debate. The voting quorum was verified and 193 Members were registered. I now give the floor, for an intervention, with a special greeting on your birthday, to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. [[Congratulations from PSD, CH and PS MP Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is a match that is not made to anyone, but it is the only way to have applause in this Chamber. [[Laughing.]] [[Congratulations from the PSD, CH, PS and BE Member Fabíola Cardoso.]] Thank you, acknowledged, to whom you applauded and also to those who silently applauded. The Left Block uses a power agenda, a right that, for us, is precious, to discuss a single diploma, where it really only interests an article, where there are only two points: one, which reduces the size of classes administratively, centrally, as if the Assembly of the Republic should do so and, from our point of view, as if even the government should do so and not be a school competence—when they are the ones who know the reality of things! — and a second point, the real reason why the debate is of interest to the Bloc, which is to give more power to the education unions, because it gives them a role in defining the size of the classes. Therefore, the Block is interested in giving this power to the unions, because, who knows, may be worth a few votes. It doesn't matter if there are logistical conditions to make this reduction, it doesn't matter if there are enough rooms, it doesn't matter how much this costs, it doesn't matter if there are schools that think they have better solutions to safeguard the health of their students in times of pandemic, it doesn't matter whether the well-being and the future of young people are more careful with this type of centralized decisions. It is because, if you were interested, you would have allowed our legislative initiative on the recovery plan for learning delays and the school opening plan for September to be discussed in conjunction with the initiative under discussion. But no! The Block preferred to be arguing alone. There is only one reason for this: unlike trade unionists, these young people do not yet vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u123	However, the Bureau has heard that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo is not the only anniversary. Also Members of Parliament Joana Mortágua and Mariana Mortágua are today anniversaryrs. [[PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL applause.]] This day of St. John is indeed a great day! [[Laughing.]] Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A few days after the end of the 2019 / 2020 school year, and after a continuous and strict confinement of functions, the Minister of Education, harassed by media pressure, has in recent hours multiplied the announcements on the opening of the next school year. But when we were waiting for a first balance sheet of the final period, of concrete objectives and measures to recover delays and resume the normality that schools, teachers and families claim, we are confronted with a campaign of propaganda, worn out by half truths and by renewed promises. Nothing we weren't used to. That has been the case in the last four years. The Minister of Education has always assumed his non-existence as a recipe for maintaining the position and, at the flavor of the media foam, was saying what he didn't know, cut in what he shouldn't do, he swooned what he didn't meet and never wanted to fulfill and promised what he couldn't, invariably harming the students themselves always. When he announced the resume of the classes, the Minister promised, and made it known that everything would be fine. And we know that not everything went well. Many students will have stayed behind, because they did not have a computer, because they live in localities without network coverage, because they did not adapt to distance education, because parents had to choose between paying data packages or food and household income, because the Minister of Education has abandoned them or for no number of reasons. And many more would have stayed behind if, throughout the country, the local authorities had not replaced the government and filled their serious failures in the obligation to guarantee the necessary means for students and schools. We cannot aquilate the true dimension of the implications of the « learning curve flattening ». The social and educational costs of such a long absence of the school far-CL will be felt for a long time. We do not have official indicators — and we do not know if we will ever have them! — to assess the impact that the pandemic and the political response measures are generating on education: attendance, dropout and school performance, student wear, social inequalities and gaps generated. But what will it be like in the new school year? If the buildings do not « stretch», if in schools of large urban centres, often overcrowded, there is only half of the students, what will it be like? Are the classes going out in the middle? The classes will be on shift, one in the morning and one in the afternoon? Will a semi-presenceal regime be implemented? Will this regime be extended to all years of schooling? Children of 1. the cycle, especially in the first two years of schooling, has no autonomy for the use of digital platforms and computers — would add: it will not even be desirable. How will pre-school children be framed? The dimension of school socialization, peer learning, informal learning in the context of recreation are experiences that will be irremediably committed to younger children and students. How will 12-year-olds be monitored? Is there any specific programme of support for the family being considered by the Government? The promise that all students will have a guaranteed computer and internet is for when? The month of September is nearing broad steps and does not see the realization of the universalization of digital manual licenses, nor the distribution of computers. In the 15th of April, the Prime Minister said that the school « will never be the same again» and that this would be « much more than having a computer or tablet». « Whatever happens », Mr. Prime Minister promised, in the coming academic year, « the universality of access to digital platforms for all basic and secondary students » will be ensured. Why does this announcement and this promise bring to mind the time of the famous Magalhães, which a government, of which the current Prime Minister was a part, announced how the quintessence of progress and as it would revolutionize education in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u125	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u126	You should be ashamed to be talking about Magalhães!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u127	As we all know, it is not enough to distribute computers to students to change the teaching and learning system. But this has not been done in the last four years, in which we have seen a strong disinvestment in the technological equipment and resources of schools. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vulnerability of an aged faculty and the expected occurrence of a second pandemic strike will reduce the availability of teachers in a worrying manner. What are Plan B and Plan C? There's no room for improvisation anymore. The context will no longer be of emergency but, yes, of contingency! The lack of teachers in various disciplines will make it difficult to strengthen contracting in time of pandemic. Hire more teachers? Where's the money? Where are teachers available? In the Supplementary Budget? There's no money. We cannot be pleased with this lack of information. How can schools prepare for the challenges they face? How can families organize their logistics in return to new normality from September? How can promoters of various family support services — ATL, out-of-school activities centres, municipalities, IPSS — plan next school year? Will emergency education be maintained, how has it happened in the last few months? Students are not at the top of the priorities of the Minister of Education. Consider the sad example of the demand for school textbooks to be returned. How will the learning recovery be done if the students return the manuals? This question would be just a sad symbol if it corresponded to some chance. But no! Education is the occasion of this government. The government's concern for students, schools and teachers in the Supplementary Budget is seen: the term 'education' appears only once. In the Economic and Social Stabilization Programme, there are only two measures linked to education: the universalization of digital school and the funding programme of municipalities for the eradication of asbestos in public schools, a solemn promise worth EUR 60 million, which comes with four years' delay, I repeat, with four years' delay to the Country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u128	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u129	As regards the hiring of teachers to ensure the breakdown of the classes which the health reasons impose, what is your budgetary translation? In the Supplementary Budget, there is a difference of EUR 240 million, but, as opacity is the rule, we do not know where this money will be allocated. Is it a time-strengthening credit for schools? Is it strengthening multidisciplinary teams to support students? Will it strengthen social action measures for primary, secondary and pre-school students? Is the Ministry of Education going to use the 'old revenue' to push into the'soluble' schools of difficult operationalization, without entrusting them with the essential tools and resources? Is the Ministry of Education going to just continue to "knock your shoulders" in the face of the aboriginal differences between students who, if they are not cut short, will still dig more asymmetries in the teaching-learning process? The government's announcement about the reopening of schools is neither a plan nor a response to these issues. It is only an advertisement and propaganda: the official propaganda that wants to believe that Portugal has a Minister of Education in office. Exceptional situations require exceptional measures and a Minister of Education to meet the situation. Unfortunately, that is not the case. The announcements and promises about priorities and the strategic relevance of education to the future of the country are of little importance when the practices show otherwise. This government does not invest in school, does not value or credibility teachers and does not believe or care about students. This government continues to mortgage the future of our young people and compromise the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u130	Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification from Mr Luís Leite Ramos, who informed the Bureau that he wanted to answer the two together. Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Leite Ramos, you are right when he says that the Minister of Education disappears in combat at crucial moments and the issue of the pandemic proved that. There is a government's inability to present a plan, a scenario, possibilities for the next school year, a study on the various hypotheses we have on the table and therefore Parliament is called not only to discuss the problem, not only to monitor the government's activity, but also to propose solutions. If it is true that you are right when you say that Mr Minister often only propagates because then you do not have the solutions with you, the same applies to the PSD bench, which reaches the debate, criticizes the lack of government proposals, but then does not bring any proposals. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] He said from the rostrum that there is a need for the hiring of teachers, particularly due to the obvious need for the development of classes, if there is any present education. Mr President, will you then vote against the Bloc proposal which defends the hiring of more teachers precisely because of this situation? The PSD position is not understood! It is not enough to arrive at the debate, to criticize the government, but then to accompany the Socialist Party in the inefficiencies of the answer that is necessary. Will the honourable Member and the PSD board vote in favour of the proposal that solves one of the problems of the decoupling of the classes? Yes or no? That's what we're here for. It is not just to realize that there is supervision of the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u132	It is necessary to propose and both the Assembly of the Republic and each parliamentary group have this capacity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u133	Mrs. Lucia Araújo Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u134	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I would like to say « well preach Brother Tomás, do as he says, do not do what he does». I'm from a council where the president of the chamber is of his political colour. He promised the groups that he would give them a computer, however, this week the classes are finished and the computer is not there yet. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr President, I should also like to tell you that I should be ashamed of the words you have spoken here. His right government, PSD / CDS, cut in the budget to public school 1 million and 200 thousand euros. [[PSD protests.]] It was that money that was needed for the equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Your government has disbursed 28,000 teachers. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It was your government! It was your government that canceled our students' study visits. And they talk about inequalities? Where is your criterion for fighting inequalities, when we have students from within the country with difficulties, who need study visits, and you have even cut? Oh, my God! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u135	It's hard to hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u136	Mr President, even in the defence of public school, we have already realized that, lately, they understand that they have an approach to social democracy, but I would like to ask you, Mr President, whether you are defending the public school or defending the association contracts when there is redundancy in the offer of schools. [[PSD protests.]] It is good that you define this for a very simple reason: we have, besides... Continuation of PSD protests. I already know that Mr. Deputies will remind me, because it's your pleasure, your bankruptcy,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u137	...but in relation to that word, bankruptcy, I have another: trust. It is that word, trust, which the Portuguese and the country have. And we all know why. Because we valued careers, frozen careers, rejected Christmas allowance and vacation allowance. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mr President, and I shall finish with regard to schools with association contracts and public school, where are you staying? Do they defend the public school or defend the school with an association contract? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u138	Mr Luís Leite Ramos, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u139	Mr President, I thank Mr Luís Monteiro for his question and for his intervention. Mr President, I regret that, for four years, I have supported and assured the Government, a minister who thinks he is incapable and incompetent, as we have been saying over this period, and that only now, in some way, has come to recognize this mistake and that support which, I repeat, you have given for four years to the education policies which were made by the same minister who has been missing all this time, who has always been incompetent and incapable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u140	All right! [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u141	I am glad that the honourable Member and the Left Block recognise that the Minister is incapable and incompetent. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u142	Now, don't ask the PSD for responsibilities!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u143	But these are a responsibility and a problem the Left Block has to deal with. With regard to the draft law under discussion, we have been very clear in our speeches, Mr President. The presentation of this initiative is not to solve the problem of reopening schools. This is an initiative to give body to a political agenda of the Left Block. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] As we explained at the outset, in the question we have asked, this solution solves absolutely no problem, because schools do not stretch, because there are no means or teachers available to increase the deployment of classes, nor is it this way, by applying a rule that is blind from north to south, that we will solve the problem. To Mrs. Lúcia Araújo Silva, I will say that I am amazed, because, after all, the PS never defies for reality again. Mrs. Member, what parents and teachers want to know is what's going to happen in September! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u144	Mrs. Deputy is not worried about any of this! I don't know if you usually contact your voters in your constituency, but besides talking about your chamber president—who should have asked Mr. Prime Minister to give computers to students, because this is a government competence, it is not the competence of the municipal chambers—... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS deputy Pedro Delgado Alves.]] ... if you talk to your parents and teachers, you will find that the whole country is perplexed by the lack of information, the lack of debate, the lack of plans to know what will happen in September. I was hoping that the Socialist Party would come to elucidate us about what is going to happen, since the government is not here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u145	Was it supposed to be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u146	Therefore, this and the associated questions remain unanswered. With regard to association contracts, Mrs Deputies, I believe that once and for all the Socialist Party should be in absolute shame. So, the Secretary of State who came to defend the public school puts the children in private school and you still have the can to come here asking for accounts? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] I have my children in public school, I've always had, and I'm not ashamed of any of that! This question only serves to divert the debate from what is important: what is the Government's response to the reopening of the school year in the coming academic year? That's what we need to know. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u147	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Alexandra Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The pandemic caused by COVID-19 required physical distance measures to contain the contagion. In general countries, the closure of schools and kindergartens was one of the measures taken. The ability of the school, students and teachers to change their practices and adjust to new realities no longer leaves no doubt about anyone. However, this process has made the inequalities with which the public school reads and how it is necessary to attenuate them visible. Not all students and students have access to computers and to the Internet under the same conditions. Most students, especially the smallest and those who have special educational needs, need support from a qualified adult. Parents aren't always. Regardless of their good will, pedagogy is not innate. Parents do not have enough knowledge to accompany and help their children. Different-order therapies have to be applied by therapists. The confinement itself placed entire families at home in simultaneous telework and under very unequal family, housing, economic and cultural conditions. By the Ministry of Education, there was a direct concern to warn that teachers would not go on vacation, but the guidelines were few and disparate, allowing directors, not all, the interpretive vehements resulting from personal management and the lack of democracy, which is an example of the greater control of teaching activity, with quality surveys. However, distance teaching is not the transposition of face-to-face teaching, with endless synchronous classes and endless tasks. Distance teaching does not replace the richness of the pedagogical and teaching presenceal relationship. It can be a complement or an alternative, such as, in fact, it already happens in punctual situations, in case of serious health problems of the students. Still, teachers and teachers did not give up on their students and contact them all the way. Despite the remarkable commitment of educational communities, the solution found cannot be prolonged over time, under the penalty of causing pedagogical damage and imbalances in the rhythms of learning, development and psychosocial, especially in children and students with special educational needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u150	In addition, it increases the risk of inequality, failure, dropout and exposure to domestic violence. The consequences of confinement are still to be assessed, but there is a redoubled work to recover the learnings that have not taken place and the development of competences of socialization, solidarity, collaboration, respect for the other, by difference, integration and user-friendlyness, essential to life in society. The Ministry of Education itself recognizes the limitations of distance education when it decides to return to the classes of students of the 11. o and 12. the years, following the experience of other countries. So it is urgent to return to school, which is the guarantee of equality. The conditions of confinement are very diverse, as are families, and it is not the distribution of computer material that reduces these inequalities. Thus, with this bill, the Left Block Parliamentary Group has proposed for the next academic year the reduction of the maximum number of students per class at all levels of education, at a minimum of 15 and a maximum of 20 students, in order to ensure the safety and physical distance conditions, minimizing the risks of exit at any school. It should be remembered that the size of the classes relates to the teaching-learning process—see the case of PIEF (Integrated Education and Training Programme ) — as the experts tell us. The number of students grew immediately after 25 April, with the improvement of living conditions, in what was known as the'mass school' and remained high for economic reasons, harming learning, among other problems. The Left Block also proposes the adaptation of the criteria for opening choice disciplines and secondary education courses, the deployment of classes and the maximum number of students and classes per teacher, according to the reality of each school and with trade union bargaining. The return of the educational community to school is imperative, but in conditions that allow the security and confidence that the teaching-learning process requires, which requires the maximum number of students per class and teacher, promoting their action to minimize social inequalities, which implies more human and financial resources. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u151	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cláudia André.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us focus on the present and the future. They'll know VV. Ex. how many students does Portugal have in its schools? It's about 1 million and 500 thousand. Do we know how many have left schools during this confinement? Do we know how many have not followed the learnings that schools have provided? Do we know what your concerns and limitations are? We have no doubt that most groupings will know. We doubt that the Ministry of Education has this survey, which would be essential for defining future scenarios and strategies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u153	But yesterday, the whole country learned that the first goal for the next school year will be to recover the learning deficit this year, in the words of Mr. Prime Minister, and that five weeks of learning recovery will be in the words of Mr.Minister of Education. We are then led to ask: what is the plan for reopening and where are such brilliant deliberations entered? Well, we don't know! We don't know, they don't know schools, they don't know teachers, they don't know families, they don't know students. The only guidance received by schools and families in recent weeks was the obligation to erase and return manuals. The groups and families learned about the social communication as the start-up date of the classes, which is the great goal for the next school year, which will be given primacy to the present education and which have five weeks to apply a plan of recuperation of contents. Two and a half months from the beginning of the next school year, the groups of schools do not know what the school schedule, which the standards for the formation of classes, such as the hourly credit, such as the rules for the preparation of schedules and the hiring of new teachers... could continue to state. In short, there are no guidelines for preparing the next school year. In previous years, schools were much more prepared to start the school year than today, in a circumstance that demands much more rigour, demand and seriousness. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] So we asked: in the school community, was there any balance sheet of what worked and what didn't work? Is there any substantive change in the forms of organisation and curriculum development? Are you thinking about strengthening multidisciplinary and collaborative teaching and learning models? How will we reduce the disastrous effects on students with special educational needs and their families, who have been away for so many months without support or proximity?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u154	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u155	What implications have occurred in the emotional balance and mental health of these students? Of what will it only serve to know that it is five weeks of recovery if there is nothing else — I repeat, nothing! - besides this? Unfortunately, we have no answers to these questions, until we have here the Minister of Education, who is absent, as is his situation. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] With the great uncertainty of the current state of public health, in a situation of public calamity—and we are not talking about the past, we are in an exceptional situation— it would be to expect that schools would already be equipped with several plans appropriate to different scenarios, according to the evolution of the pandemic in Portugal, that is, with something realistic and not with a discharge of promotional words of circumstance. What is expected of a responsible ministry is that it sets out the strategy, plans various scenarios and provides the necessary means for schools to find the best solutions for their students. "Egalitarianism in the treatment of all students is the passport for the explosion," said Secretary of State João Costa. It was thus hoped that if you had thought of the structural responses to solve the problems of all students throughout the country. With families, students and teachers exhausted from the adjustment effort, the only thing that was asked at this time for training — and the expression is not mine — was that the Ministry of Education had provided several tactics for the next game. Sport language has been used in recent days and it seems that it is the only thing Mr. Prime Minister and Minister of Education can understand. We therefore ask Mrs Alexandra Vieira where are then the substantive issues that can allow schools to adapt, also in content and not only in form. [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u156	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that this debate makes two obvious things clear, the first being that there is a great concern for all opposition parties—which clearly reflect the public opinion and the concern of parents and teachers—in planning the opening of the school year and, above all, in creating conditions for compensating the verified delay, even because it was impossible to do much better with confinement. This is what we care about and not about the past, because the past is already there. The government was surprised, caught with the pants in hand, as the people say, with the lack of technological investment in schools and the lack of preparation, but we cannot accuse the government of the contents not being seized at home! Perhaps they were surprised, although there was plenty of time to prepare things that surprised us. What is at stake, and that the lack of humility of the PS and the Government prevents them from recognizing them, is a legitimate concern of all parties with the preparation of the next academic year. The government not only does not participate as it hides or doesn't know what it wants to do,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u158	... because it was necessary to mark this debate and to write some chronicle in the newspapers to the government to urge to announce measures, dates and targets through the media. And it would be good if past experience told us that the government is doing what it announces, but, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Prime Minister has announced as a new asbestos removal campaign that he has been delaying for five years and that he has already promised several times. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It's the removal of asbestos, it's the technological equipment in schools, it's the hiring of operational assistants, it's the curriculum flexibility... the government keeps promising, but rarely it does. Patience is running out for the lack of humility of the government and the PS, who are more concerned with protecting the Minister of Education than with protecting students and public school. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u159	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u160	Mr President, since there are still parliamentary groups available for intervention, I wonder if there will be more entries, because this will be our intervention to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u161	I wonder, then, if any of the Mrs. Members are still going to sign up to intervene. [[Pause.]] Not registering entries, you have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, at the beginning of this closing intervention, to make a special compliment to the Minister of Education, who will certainly see us at the moment. Mr Minister, I ask you the question for which the country wants an answer at the moment: what is the plan for opening the next school year and why has the government not yet submitted it? [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] This was the obvious question, the only one, the certainty, so that, on the days of July, at a time when the placement of teachers, the classes and the definition of the next school year, there was an answer by the Ministry of Education. And what answers were there? Zero! Is the same schedule indicated that we have known for months and that there is no answer to a fundamental question: will it be a face-to-face return or distance? On that, I must even say that I am very supportive of the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, who were literally left on the « clothing stick » by the Minister. It is that this essential question the PS has not been able to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u163	But you didn't hear the answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u164	Six interventions were made by the Socialist Party — six! — and there was no answer to this fundamental question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u165	You've been distracted, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u166	They repeated several times, with some nuances and variations, the phrase « no one can know what the next day will be». Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I follow this sentence, but I believe that today we are sure that by September we will not have a vaccine distributed in the country to fight COVID-19. Therefore, the absolute certainty that we have is that "the next day" will not be like the school year that has passed. Thus, the obvious answer will be to think how in times of pandemic, we will have the public school functioning at present—and this is already the affirmation of the definitive choice of the Left Block. On this matter, we ask for nothing more or nothing less than what is being done in other countries, which is to think about next school year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u167	It was an opportunity!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u168	In Spain, France, Italy, in all countries this is happening, already having hypotheses and equations, but the Portuguese Government does not say anything about this and keeps Mr. Minister for Education confined.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u169	You didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u170	From that point of view, I believe that our debate is true, because it goes to the bottom of the question "how will we get students into the classroom? » and also because it gives you answers. The right, which mourns the absence of the Minister of Education, fails when it comes to the realization of an answer. We now have the opening of the Pandemic Right: a carpide right, which weeps but does nothing about this matter. The gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD and the CDS ask whether the same principle will be applied for the number of students from north to south of the country, from Bragança to Faro, and the answer is obvious: did the Directorate-General for Health not define exactly the same rules for day care from Bragança to Faro? Oh, my God! Defined.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u171	It's called bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u172	Those who do not want to see this concrete reality are those who do not want any solution, preferring to carpify their sorrows and think that, with this, they have some popular support. But this idea of riding the country's disasters doesn't help public school or people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u173	That's the role of the Block since it was born!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u174	So sad is this right. I know that sometimes there are no limits to hypocrisy. For example, we can see the moment when the honourable Member of the House came to this debate to ask where the teachers are. He, who even wanted to privatize the institutions of public school, that is, for him not to remain public school—he hid it - it is true, but it is in his electoral programme - now comes to ask where the teachers are. They are far from the populism of the honourable Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u175	Don't! They're very close.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u176	There is a fundamental choice that, today, we are all called upon to do: it is the choice of, with good sense, giving freedom to schools, but with the clear indication that there is a reduction in the number of students per class; to tell the Government, in good time of the outcome of the Supplementary Budget, that it is necessary to strengthen the number of teachers, which the right one cries but does not propose; and to ensure that the next school year, which affects parents, professionals and students, who affects the country as a whole, has a timely and serious response by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u177	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u178	I believe that this is the purest sense in terms of respecting public school and this generation that we need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u179	And the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u180	We arrived at the end of the discussion of Bill No. 449 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Sets a maximum number of students per class in the school year 2020 / 2021 in pre-school education and in basic and secondary education due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which, as required, we will generally vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP, and abstentions against the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u181	That was a good try! For the year!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u182	Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha has several ads to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u184	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u185	Mr President, I just wanted to inform you that I was present, although I could not vote on time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u186	So Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as we all saw, was present at the vote. Mrs Ana Mesquita, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u187	Mr President, I would just like to inform you that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on the vote to which we proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u188	It is noted that the CFP will deliver a written declaration of vote. Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will come and give you a lot of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u189	Mr President, I would like to begin by giving information to the honourable Members. Members who are present, by video conference, at today's plenary meeting: the Members of the PS Olavo Câmara and PSD Sérgio Marques, elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira. However, I report that they entered the Bureau, and they were admitted, several diplomas. I begin by referring to Lein's proposals 38 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAA ) — The ninth amendment to the Electoral Law for the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, adopted by Decree-Law No 267 / 80 of 8 August, amended by Laws Nos 28 / 82 of 15 November, and 72 / 93 of 30 November, and by Organic Laws Nos 2 / 2000 of 14 July, 2 / 2001 of 25 August, 5 / 2006 of 31 August, 2 / 2012 of 14 June, 3 / 2015 of 12 February, and 4 / 2015 of 16 March, 39 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the legal unit system by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1258 ; and 40 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Articles 2. o is 3. that of Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 2455 and Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1995 by amending the VAT Code, the VAT regime in intra-Community transactions and additional legislation relating to this tax in the context of the processing of electronic commerce. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Law Projects No. 452 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional scheme applicable to specific forms of contracts for the exploitation of real estate for trade and services in commercial centres and 453 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — eliminates restrictions on microenterprise access to public support created as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. They both go down to six. the Commission. More information that also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects No. 528 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By presenting the timetable for opening schools for the next school year and implementing a learning recovery plan; 529 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government equip and cover militarized forces under the conditions and rules for the allocation and calculation of pension for the reform of the convergent social protection scheme and disability and old age pension for the general social security scheme of military forces by amending Law No 3 / 2017 from 6 January, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 3. the Commission ; 530 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The suspension of the exploration of hydrocarbons in the Battle and Pombal, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 531 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Reform of the model and public support to be allocated to forest biomass plants based on its sustainability, which falls to 11. the Commission ; 532 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to identify and solve the problem of households in an irregular or illegal situation which falls to 10. the Commission ; 533 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Evaluation of the 1990 Ortographic Agreement, which falls to 12. the Commission ; and 534 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends support for circus and circus arts, which falls to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-06-24.u190	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The agenda for the next plenary session, which will be tomorrow at 3 p.m., is contained in the Request to the Government No 5 / XIV / 1. the, required by the PSD, on the theme « Current situation of justice in Portugal ». I should like to inform you that, tomorrow too, there will be a Conference of Leaders with the leaders of the parliamentary groups immediately following the plenary meeting. I leave to you my vows of a beautiful evening and a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
