ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. I greet everyone. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Officers of the authority, please open the gallery doors to the public. Today, we have an agenda filled with an appeal to the Government, requested by the Left Block, on the crisis in postal service and the recovery of public control of TTCs. Before we get on the agenda, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will take account of the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very late to all. I am now announcing the initiatives that have taken place in the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President. First of all, I refer to the Parliamentary Inquiry No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the action of the XXI Constitutional Government in respect of the process of awarding support following the rural fires in 2017, in the municipalities of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã. Law No 235 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Other Act No. 19 / 2003 of 20 June ( Law on the Financing of Political Parties and Election Campaigns ), eliminating the benefit of municipal property tax exemption ( IMI ) for political parties, which falls to 1. the Commission, No 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Remuneration supplement of the female components of the forces and security services due to pregnancy, which decreases 1. the Commission, No 240 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Eliminates the tax benefits of political parties and reduces the value of public subsidies ( eighth amendment to the Political Party Financing Act, Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June 2003 ), which falls to 1. the Commission, No 241 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June by introducing measures of fiscal justice and equal treatment, which goes down to 1. the Commission, No 242 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — The ninth amendment is made to the Electoral Law of the Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August, which falls to 1. the Commission, No 243 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Prevents institutional support for performances that cause physical or psychological suffering or cause animal death, which drops to 12. the Commission, No 248 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Recurs tax benefits allocated to political parties, decreases the limits of election campaign expenditure and resets limits on fund-raising revenue ( eighth amendment to Law No 19 / 2003 of 20 June ), which falls to 1. the Commission, No 249 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Establishs the moratorium on clearance processes resulting from the liberalisation of the Urban Rent Law, until the construction of a robust public housing park, which falls to 6. the Commission, No 251 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By defending the freedom of expression and dignity of the human person, which goes down to 1. the Commission, points 256 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Determines the need for impact assessment of agricultural practice in an intensive and superintensive manner of tree species, which falls to 7. the Commission, No 257 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — For the non-use of public money for financing Tauromachic activities, which falls to 12. the Commission, and No 258 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the free line of SNS 24 and for other services provided by public entities and companies providing public services impose alternatives to value added numbers for the consumer/user, lower to 13. the Commission, in connection with 6. a, 9. a and 11. the Commission. Resolution Nos 313 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government no longer transfer funds to the Resolution Fund for capital injection into the New Bank until the audit to its accounts is completed, which falls to 5. the Commission, No 314 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By abolishing tolls in A13, between Atalaia and Ferreira do Zêzere, which falls to 6. the Commission, No 315 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government schedule and implement the urgent withdrawal of existing fibrosis plates in the coverage of EB 2, 3 Dr. António Augusto Louro, Seixal, and programmes the necessary requalification works, No. 316 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government anticipate the period of Easter school holidays as a preventive measure of the spread of the new coronavirus-COVID-19, which falls to 9. the Commission, No 317 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends to the Government the provision of a specific contact line for advice and guidance on COVID-19, which falls to 9. the Commission, and No 318 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support workers, including green receipt workers, in the context of the contingency plan of COVID-19, low to 10. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Mrs. Members, let us start the agenda, which has as its sole point the Request to Government No 2 / XIV / 1. the, requested by BE, on the crisis in postal service and the recovery of public control of TTCs. To open the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Secretary of State: The recent history of TTCs is the history of deep wrong privatization. Conducted by the latest PSD / CDS government and completed in 2014, from there everything changed in the quality of postal service, and for worse. On 5 September 2014, only one day after the approval of the operation, the sale of the last 31 % of TTC shares held by PARPUBLIC by EUR 343 million was realized. A year earlier, about 70 % of the capital of the Post Office had already been in the hands of some international banks such as Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank. It was in less than one year that PSD and CDS sold the CTTs, not before applying the known recipe: ‘restructuring’ and ‘increase’ the public undertaking, closing counters, selling buildings, redeploying employees and degrading the service, while opening up space to use the network of mail counters for the sale of financial products. It is worth stressing that this company, when public, would make profits each year, generating revenue for the State. in a decade between 2005 and 2014, TTC generated 577 million euros of profits. From 2014 onwards, only four months after the conclusion of privatisation, the data began to invert. Since then, until 2019, distributed dividends are higher than net results. The shape of what should be of everyone and of all is in the sight of anyone who wants to see and only has not been stopped by lack of political courage. The CTTs were a profitable public enterprise, which managed a natural monopoly of mail distribution with great degrees of efficiency and efficiency. That is why it became so desirable in the privatization operations carried out by the right and launched as soon as the right came to power. Regardless of political options, it is undeniable that the postal services have always been seen as a public entity that provides an essential public service. It is a company with more than 500 years of history, it is part of the collective imagination of the country, having undergone various political regimes and financial and economic crises worldwide. Fifty years to build such an important asset and it took a few years of right-wing policy to privatize and destroy this asset. Since privatization, the scenario could not be worse for the provision of public service: hundreds of closed stations and mail stations; the outsourcing of mail delivery to companies under outsourcing; the distribution of letters is no longer daily in many locations of the country; the significant increase in the size of the routes of each distribution turn. But also with regard to workers' rights, the scenario is negative. There was a reduction of more than 1000 workers, including even before privatization; an increase in the number of workers with precarious links, reaching almost 2000 ; the increase in the itinerary that each carter, working period and working rhythms in all areas of activity; the failure to comply with rest periods and the non-payment of the allowance by discontinuous hours. And what about the management of the company by the administrations that have gone through there? This management was driven by the sale of real estate, often historical. For example, the administration of TTCs received salaries in 2017 in the order of many hundreds of thousands of euros. At the head of these salaries was the President's, at the time, Francisco Lacerda, whose annual remuneration was €900,000 — the seventh best paid from the list of the PSI-20 (English Stock Index) in that same year. The purpose of the administration of Francisco Lacerda was to transform the overwhelming majority of the stations into banking agencies of the CTT Bank and to bet only on profitable business segments that are integrated into the TTC. The cost-sharing methodology used by the administration of Francisco Lacerda allowed part of the costs with the Bank's activity to be attributed to the universal postal service, imposing the costs of this activity, to the detriment of the Bank, which is obviously outside the scope of the public service. But the perception of users and users in relation to the service provided has also reached very low levels. Looking only for 2019, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) registered 28 000 complaints about postal services in general. of these, 23 000 complaints aimed at TTCs and the biggest cause of complaint are delays in delivery of orders, numbers following what was already happening in 2018. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in almost all the indicators we have been able to use are evidence of the serious consequences of the error that privatization has taken place year after year. The TTCs have been playing an essential role of territorial cohesion for 500 years, either through universal postal service and home mail distribution, either through the activities that, however, develop in their posts, such as the lifting of pensions or the payment of several essential services. Mail stations represent, in many localities of the country, the only public and proximity service available to populations, thus performing an incalculable social function. We easily realize that Portugal, by privatizing TTCs, chose to be with a minority of countries that have the whole private postal service company. Out of 24 countries analyzed by ANACOM, 19 have fully public companies and only 4 have fully private companies. It's a mistake! It was a mistake to privatize! In Portugal, it is the regulator itself who admits that, when privatized, the company has ceased to be directed solely by promoting the public interest. It is more than obvious, and even under Portuguese and Community legislation, that mail services cannot be left exclusively to the private initiative because the market does not provide that service satisfactorily, because that is not their intention. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only a fully public service can guarantee a service that reaches the entire population, throughout the territory, at affordable or free prices, with quality, without discrimination and without business criteria and fully inadequate management for that service. This request to the Government is intended to clarify the positions and decisions needed by the people. The concession contract ends at the end of this year, 2020. The breach of the contract cannot continue to be ignored, nor can the successive failure to comply with the administration's promises, for example, with regard to the reopening of stations. A future contract for the granting of universal postal service has to offer concrete guarantees and the Government has not yet been able to understand what instruments it intends to use for this purpose. Therefore, Minister, today you must take a clear position on this matter, clarifying what is the concrete action plan you have. Another clarification that is increasingly pressing has to do with those who hold the TTCs. On this, many statements we have seen but little action. from the Left Block, they know our position: TTCs should never have been privatized and renationalization is the only possible decision. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In this respect, the General Finance Inspectorate has already indicated that the decisions taken at the time of privatisation were completely wrong and could further damage the public record. As a country, we need to ensure that sectors and strategic companies are in the hands of all of us and therefore the state. This is not due to any ideological prejudice—in fact, it is the only argument on the right, which has ruined the strategic capacity of our country, either in relation to TTCs or in relation to other areas—it is because it has been increasingly proven by the reality that only the public service can reach all and to all, without discrimination, without looking at the portfolio of each user and being throughout the territory without any profit strategies behind each decision. In 2019, part of the Socialist Party pressured the Government to have a different position and move forward towards the reversal of the privatization of TTCs. Also in that year, the Secretary of State and the Minister stated that, and I quote, “the State should have a share in TTCs” and that “the entry of capital is not excluded, although it is not on the table”. Little hard soil, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! These statements did not have any realisation, except the vote against the Left Block projects that propose exactly the nationalization of this company. Mr Minister, well, the debate is on the table and it is time for the government to stand permanently. Do you or do you not want the State to play a key role in this strategic enterprise for the country? When we make deeply wrong decisions for our country, it is our duty not to give up in reverse. The claim about TTCs and postal service has been made by many and many in the country, throughout the territory. Reports on mismanagement are more than reports that should be allowed by any government. So, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no longer any excuse for delaying the decision on the nationalisation of TTCs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u5	Even during the opening period, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, to whom I also wish to congratulate, has the floor. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing, speaking, who will do their best to sit down or leave the Chamber for a few seconds. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are, of course, other issues that are of much greater concern to us and that have concentrated our attention and concern, but it is clear that Parliament and the Government are not stopping their work and because the issue that the Left Block has chosen is also of great importance and the debate is necessary, I am fulfilling the Left Block by the initiative. This issue is important not only for the company concerned, the CTTs, but also because it allows to share with you five short ideas as essential. First idea: in the last two and a half decades, the country has privatized too many public companies and privatized badly—even, there is no problem in admitting it when the Socialist Party governments have been doing so. Second idea: the country privatized companies that, in many cases, were not only profitable but also loved by the people, companies that gave not only budget dividends but that maintained the State's symbolic ties with the populations. A State serving the people with its heritage gains legitimacy and depends less on taxes to finance itself. Third idea: regulation, seen as a solution to remedy problems resulting from privatization, is, in many key sectors of the economy, a weak alternative because, when a public enterprise is privatized, it becomes more difficult for citizens to exercise their democratic control. Popular scrutiny of a public enterprise is easier than in the case of a private company regulated by an independent entity. In the first case, we can always ask the government for accounts. Fourth idea: regulation is also a poor alternative, because once a privatized public enterprise becomes more difficult for a government to impose demands and ensure that the company provides better service to the people. A regulatory state is a less effective State. Fifth idea: privatization of public enterprises is even more serious and wrong when these companies work in sectors that are natural monopolies, i.e., where competition between different companies is impossible. These five ideas result from a calm and serene assessment of our recent past. They are essential to understand what is deeply wrong with the privatization of TTCs and in what situation we are in today. This is a dividend company to the State budget, which played a symbolic role as a guarantee of unity and territorial cohesion and which operates in a sector where the market does not function as in the simple utopias of liberals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that the PSD and CDS will say: « Your privatisation was provided for in the Memorandum of Troika, negotiated and signed by the PS ». [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u7	Let's go! This privatisation was not planned! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Once privatized the company... [[PSD protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u8	Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u9	Once privatized the company, the State has lost its capacity to intervene and to ensure that the populations are well served with quality, dignity and equality. If privatisation was wrong, the final result of the negotiation of the concession contract was no better. Dear Members, we have said several times that the scenario of entry into the capital of CTTs is not excluded by our government. The renegotiation of the concession contract and its result in terms of obligations for the universal service provider will be decisive for any decision we have taken. Thus, there is still a way to go up to a more impactive decision in the life of a company that has recently been the target of radical societal changes, which are always very disturbing. A fundamental part of this work is, for example, to study, to anticipate the impact that the inevitable changes in the traditional postal business model will have on a company such as TTCs. The card exchange business has been in strong decline for several years and everything we know today about society tells us that we will not return in the future to the standards that marked the postal business in the past. This means that, alongside a traditional universal service of quality, capable of serving Portuguese throughout the national territory, a company such as TTCs, has mostly private or public capital, will have to be able to grasp future commercial opportunities. For example, you will need to progressively redirect your business strategy for emerging businesses, such as the transport and delivery of orders, taking advantage of the growth of electronic commerce, which still has a very relevant potential for progress in Portugal. Dear Members, the privatisations of public enterprises in nuclear sectors for the country are expensive. in cases, these costs are diffused, hidden and we need statistical indicators to measure them; in other cases, costs are visible and senses every day by millions of Portuguese, and this is one of these cases. The privatization of TTCs, today knows very well the country, was a serious mistake that did not alarm the interest of the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is up to us to have humility to learn how to learn about past decisions. Therefore, without closing the door, without excluding any scenario, without anticipating any decision on a possible entry of the State into the capital of the company, we can state that, regardless of the corporate structure of the TTCs, the future contract of granting universal postal service will have to guarantee decent levels of quality, of relation to local power and presence in the territory, starting with the minimum guarantee of a station of mail per municipality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is our commitment: we work under the concession contract to ensure quality in postal service and that territorial density protects cohesion; a fairer relationship between TTCs and local authority; and respect for workers' rights. at the same time as we have made this commitment, we do not exclude the possible use of bolder measures. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u10	Several Mrs are registered. Members to make requests for clarification to Mrs Isabel Pires and Mr Minister. The first request for clarification lies with Mr Eduardo Teixeira and is addressed to Mrs Isabel Pires. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, comes again to parliamentary debate, on behalf of the Block of the Left, the model of privatization of the CTTs, Correios de Portugal. But how many times, Mrs Deputies, have you taken the Left Block over the past five years, parliamentary initiatives, which have been re-presented cyclically, on this subject? Not even when they agreed, by parliamentary means, a management with the Socialist Party and had a majority in this Chamber managed to reverse this decision that had been in force since September 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u12	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u13	Yeah, it's true. Why insist? Can the Socialist Party turn more to the left? Today, the Minister said he might have had some more bold measures. Regardless of being a service provided by a public or private company, for us, the CTTs — Correios de Portugal have always had, and must, as a central objective, have the quality and efficiency at the service of the Portuguese, as a company, perhaps the only one, which reaches all houses in our country. But once again, the motivation underlying this debate is essentially political and ideological, because we know well that, either the Left Block or the Portuguese Communist Party — although, yes, Minister, the Memorandum of the Troika has foreseen privatization and even if it says it has been misplanned — they have always opposed this model, and not the Socialist Party. This is a model of privatization in which it competes with the government and the regulator, ANACOM audits and controls the concession awarded. And let us hope that they have done so, because at the end of this year almost there and it may be legitimate to have doubts in this matter. But now it is necessary to make government decisions, for we have just over nine months. The Left Block wants, after just over five years of the completion of privatization, to regain the public control of the CTTs and defends here today that there is a crisis in postal service. But what does the Left Block effectively defend in this new parliamentary debate? As regards the quality of service and service posts in the councils, will you know the Left Block that was while this company was public that the largest number of post closures were carried out? Will the Left Block know that the current administration is already reopening posts — there will be six reopenings this year — and that it ensures that they will be present in all our councils by the end of 2020? Is it ideological, then, the generalized political debate about privatized companies? With a few months left for the concession, will the Left Block agree on this matter with the Socialist Party? Are you in contact with any reversals that are not just ideological? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u14	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u15	Mr President, Mr Eduardo Teixeira, I thank you for the questions you have raised. I begin by answering the first question, saying that the Left Block will bring this issue to debate as often as necessary until the TTCs become public again. [[Congratulations from BE.]] With regard to the motivations that bring us to this debate, I ask the contrary: what were the motivations behind the position of the PSD and the CDS in relation to privatisations?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u17	This is because, in fact, the privatization model that was used by the PSD/CDS government had very clear motives behind it, what they did was destroy strategic companies for our country, not only the TTCs, and have done it very well, Mr. Regarding the strategy used—and quite well said that before privatisation they had already begun to close some posts, they had already begun to be fired workers—, I recall the name Sergio Monteiro, who used this same strategy both in the TTC and in other companies that were preparing to privatize, and some of these privatisations, fortunately, we were able to stop. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, all the companies that had this strategy had the same end, which was to destroy the companies to prepare them for privatization. Mr President, this is what actually divides us and, yes, we have very different ideological motivations, because it is not the same thing a service, such as the universal postal service, to be provided by a public entity or by a private entity. That's what divided us, and so well. That is why we have been able to stop privatization, and that is why we have brought this debate here, to Parliament, times when it is necessary for this company and others to be renationalised. [[PSD protests.]] Why? Because the public service can only be provided with quality and efficiency and reach the whole territory and to all people, without any discrimination, if it is managed by the public, because the private has no motivation to do public service. He never had and, like the PSD and the CDS, when they were in the government, well they showed, never will. The only solution for these companies is renationalisation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u18	Nine were registered. Members to request clarification from the Minister, who will first respond to a group of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Maria Cardoso of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u19	Mr President, Minister, when, in 2014 / 2015, the massive closures of the mail stations were given and in which many local protest movements were created, I remember those who followed closely in my district, the Braga district, as was the case of Riba de Ave, Lousada e Famalicão, Terras de Bour, Vila Verde, the claiming argument said : « The closure of CTT stations has to be stopped and cannot be allowed to dismantle a company that has a historic role in the country and constitutes an essential public service and proximity to the populations. Do not keep on seeking. ” I'm back this time, what do we see? We see this is exactly what happened. Even now, the Minister said that it was a gross mistake, so to speak, the privatisation process. If it is true that the PSD/CDS Government has to be held responsible for the social crime of privatization of this service, the PS government must also be held responsible because, so far, nothing has been done for the renationalization of this service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u21	In addition, many of these closures occurred in the interior lands and following a set of disposal of other services—health centres, General Deposit Box balconies, train, schools—, telling people who continued on their land, what they replied, and very well, 'then if they take us all, why should we continue here? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is this process that needs to be understood because, in most cases, we are facing ageing populations who often despair, even by their reform parks, and still have to bear travel expenses. Even today, even in the municipalities and the most distant parish where there is a balcony of the CTTs, there is a gap in time in relation to this same distribution. More than one week, 15 days, waiting for mail distribution. And even in the parish churches that are not so far away and must not be from the interior, I am speaking specifically of the municipality of Guimarães, this happens. In fact, we cannot speak in territorial cohesion with mitigated and vulvacious measures, as announced by the Government. The problem is structural and must be treated as such. The Left Block presented, in this plenary, a draft resolution on a public services reopening program in low-density territories, which should be structured, in collaboration with the municipalities and according to the evaluation of its effect on the settlement of the territory. What was the Socialist Party's position? He rejected this project. Therefore, it is not enough to speak in cohesion, it is necessary to create structural measures for this to happen. On the other hand, it is known that there are still 33 councils that continue without this service today and, even with the recommendation of ANACOM in 2019 for, within 20 working days, the company to submit a proposal for at least one station or post station with characteristics equivalent to those of the station to date. In the face of all these regrettable realities, I ask the Minister: is the Government prepared to urge the administration of TTCs to reopen post offices in places whose service has ceased to be provided? On the other hand, does the Government consider that, in the face of all these evidences of flight of responsibilities to ensure the contractuality as a public service, these are sufficient reasons for the State to be called back to public control of the universal service of mail? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u22	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u23	Mr. President, Minister, the CTT company is about 100 years old,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u24	He's 500 years old!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u25	... but I think that it can be over 100 years that no one will understand the real reasons that led the PSD/CDS government to privatize a company that provided a high-quality public service, that respected its workers and that every year contributed important revenues to the state safes. Today, seven years after the privatization of TTCs, the growing degradation of mail services is well known. As to: closed stations and mail stations; the buildings were sold; workers were fired; precarious links increased, as well as the routes of each distribution turn and waiting times for service; there is a lack of money available at the stations for pension payment and other social benefits; substantial delays in the delivery of postal vouchers and situations where mail has ceased to be distributed daily have become widespread. In short, privatization brought less quality, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage, more charges for people and workers saw their working conditions suffer a substantial setback. This is the result of the PSD Government/CDS decision to privatize TTCs. The nobel of the public interest would not be inappropriate for that government and, now too, a tin medal for the champion of the public interest, the former Secretary of State, Sergio Monteiro, would not be bad in this context either! [[PSD protests.]] But, as if it were little, now comes the audit of the IGF (General Inspection of Finance ) to say: first, the public service feeds or increases the gains of the TTCs; second, the legislative amendments that the PSD/CDS Government promoted in 2012 installed the doubt about the ownership of the concession goods after the conclusion of the contract; and finally, that the public interest was not taken into account, it was not, at all, cautious. Mr Minister, from these conclusions, only one is new. We all knew that the public interest was absent in this process, as we also knew, moreover, that the public service was fattening the gains of the TTCs. What we did not know was how the PSD/CDS government, consciously or unconsciously, eventually attributed to private individuals. Unidentified or legal uncertainty as to the ownership of the property of the concession that is part of the postal network after the contract has been concluded? But what is this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? This does not remind anyone, much less people with government responsibilities. To guarantee this private company the possibility of eternality in a monopoly that is not only natural because it was built by the PSD/CDS government is absolutely strange in a rule of law. But, Minister, it is not only the public interest involved in this process, it is also the quality standards that are required and which have deteriorated rapidly after privatisation. In other words, privatization brought less quality, fewer jobs, fewer mail stations, less distribution, less revenues for the state, fraud of heritage and more charges for people. They are therefore already reasons for bringing the CTTs back into the public sphere, as the Greens have been defending. What I wanted to know, Minister, is whether this possibility is being equated by the Government, with regard to the future of TTCs, especially after the Government recognises, as the Minister today did when he spoke to the gallery, that privatization was a serious mistake and that did not alarm the interest of the Portuguese people. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u26	Mr Nuno Fazenda of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u27	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Minister, Portugal is a deeply unequal country in territorial terms, and there are several facts and numbers that demonstrate it. The coast concentrates about 70% of the resident population, 83 % of the wealth produced and almost 90% of the students enrolled in higher education. What these facts and numbers reveal to us is that we need more effective policies in favour of the interior, which has not always occurred in recent decades. In fact, in some cases, even the implementation of penalizing measures for the people of the interior, as was the case with the closure of courts and other public services, which also includes the closure of mail stations, the topic of today's debate. In the last legislature, which has been strengthened in the current one, we began to have a political agenda for the enhancement of the interior with action in several key domains. For example: the tax benefits for companies; the Community funds, where they have been — and well! — positive discrimination from the interior; in higher education, where the number of students enrolled has grown 11 % in the last four years; in tourism, where for the first time a line of support was created for the value of tourism from the interior; in public investment; in road and rail. However, the truth is that, despite the effort that has been made, there is a need to continue and strengthen policies for positive discrimination in the interior, including in the provision of public services to populations. Today, it is known that the privatisation carried out in the TTCs has not guarded the public interest and has not saved it for two major reasons. Firstly, the quality of public service has deteriorated, for example, in delivery times or in the reliability and regularity of services. And it is not one of these Parliament's benches that refers to it, neither on the right, nor on the left, who testify to it, two independent entities, ANACOM, the regulatory entity, and also the General Finance Inspection, in an audit conducted in the process of privatization of TTCs, which the press gave yesterday. Secondly, and no less important, the privatisation carried out by TTCs did not also safeguard the interior of the country, because it allowed the closure of several mail stations. In view of the fact that, at the end of this year, the agreement on the granting of TTCs is concluded, the questions I put to the Minister are as follows: will the quality of the postal service be ensured in the next contract for the granting of TTCs? Secondly, can you assure this House not only that all of the country's councils are going to have a post station, but also that there will be no councils that will stay behind? Can you assure this House that the people of the interior will not be forgotten? In short, in one case: in the next concession contract, will the public interest of the TTCs become safeguarded? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u28	Mr João Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification. I'll inform you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have five more entries to ask for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u29	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Minister, when the PSD/CDS government privatized the CTT in 2014, the administration of this company applied, better by saying, the intensity of the shock treatment that had already taken place in previous years: the dismissal of about 1000 workers and the closure of hundreds of stations; the increase in the number of workers with precarious links; the increase in the pace and working periods; the failure to comply with rest periods and the non-payment of the uncontinuous hourly allowance; the outsourcing of mail to other companies under outsourcing; the decrease in the number of shifts; the sharp degradation of the public service and damage to populations; the State was left without a historical reference company, and profit; and the distribution of millions in dividends by managers, which thus cannibalized a public reference company. The dismantling of the network of stations and post offices of the CTTs and the degradation of their services, particularly in the interior and low-density territories, have aggravated the difficulties of those living there and, in particular, of the older, whose mobility problems and others are well known. There are even councils that have run out of CTT stations. In the south of the country, and in particular in the Algarve, dozens of CTT stations were also closed and others threatened to close. I refer to just a few examples: Portimão, Lagos, Loulé, Sagres, Praia da Luz, Alcoutim, Estoi, Aljezur, Montenegro, Ferragudo, Carvoeiro, Praia da Rocha. This situation even led the Association of Children’s Land Municipalities, which joins the Municipal Chambers of Aljezur, Lagos and Vila do Bispo, to try a precautionary measure to stop the closure of stations of the CTT stations in the area. The closure of these services, crucified at the profit altar of private investors, meant the destruction, degradation and disqualification of an essential public service, constitutes an overload on the small budgets of the authorities and severely penalises populations, small and medium-sized enterprises and visitors. The closure and degradation of the postal public service thus constitutes an attack on the qualification of the territory, with a greater impact on the territories of low density, as I have already mentioned, which greatly undermines the social and economic development of these regions. There are, therefore, several breaches of the contract for the granting of the universal postal service by the CTTs. The main ones responsible are the PSD / CDS government, which privatized the company, but also the previous PS government and the current government, of the responsibility of the PS, which have not operated what is required, i.e. the recovery of public control of the TTCs. The questions I would like to raise, Mr Minister, are the following: will the Government prevent the closure of new CTT stations in the Algarve and other southern regions of the country? Will it intervene in the direction of reopening these services? Finally, Minister, will you, or will you not, revert to the public sphere the postal service of the CTTs? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u30	To ask for clarification, Mr John Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has now given the floor to whom I apologize for having had this amendment on the order of speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u31	No problem, Mr. President. Mr Minister, there is so much responsibility for privatizing TTCs as those who can renationalize TTCs, they do not. Therefore, when we speak in economic and social cohesion and in combating regional asymmetries, this public service would be a good measure to respond to the needs to combat such asymmetries. Therefore, Minister, we do not understand the liabilities of the PS Government, nor its inconsistency! That is, in rhetorical terms, the government makes proclamations on the development of the interior and the rural world and then assists, impatience and serene, the destruction of postal service, the abandonment of populations, the destruction of territorial cohesion instruments, such as TTCs, all on behalf of the profit of a private company that took account of TTCs. Inadmissible is that the Government is pleased with a company that places its profits ahead of the interests and needs of the people. That's why, sirs. Members, be sure that, for each station of the CTTs that closes and for every day that keeps closed, or for every need for postal service that is not satisfied, there are more people who leave the interior and the rural world! And what is the government's response to the outrage of the people? A maneuver or, better, a media operation! A process of reopening stations to accounts, but only in the city halls, having no response to the stations that existed in the countryside, so this does not happen from a media maneuver! This is not how we will solve the problem of reopening mail stations and the problem of postal distribution continues with many difficulties. Mr Minister, only with effective public management at the service of the population is that it responds to its needs, in particular with regard to postal distribution. So I would like to leave this question to you: mainly with regard to the mail stations in the parish where they were closed to be converted into 'posts of mail', will the government respond to the needs of the people and reopen the stations that existed in those stations? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u32	In reply, Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, many of the questions they have raised, and to which I am going to answer, are common. There is also an idea, which is common to Mr. Deputies José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block, and João Dias, of the PCP, which is that, irrespective of what we can say, the responsibility for the state of the TTC is who privatizes and who refuses to nationalize. It seems unfair to me, but legitimate, that this is your position. In any case, it does not seem to me that we can charge with media manoeuvre the opening of mail stations which were not planned to be opened, it was expected, yes, to be closed. However, there are no more mail stations to close, and some are being opened—the honourable Member says that they are being opened to stocks, and I agree. But if privatisation was wrong, the negotiation of the concession contract was also. And the concession contract, as it is in force by the end of this year, has not prevented, and does not prevent, the company from doing what it has done, i.e. from closing these stations. The concession contract on quality levels of service also did not initially require the quality levels to which Portuguese were used and to which they were entitled. Therefore, even in the relationship between the TTCs and the local authority providing the service — what happens in many fregueries, as we know — the defence of a fairer relationship between the TTCs and the fregetical boards in the concession contract, the concession contract that ends this year has not been guarded. What we have always said is that we would demand that, in the concession contract, at least one station of mail should have been guarded from time to time. And the truth is, we also had the opportunity to demand this from the CTTs. If you remember, in the first speeches I made in Parliament on this matter, I said that we would never hide behind concession contracts and that, even though they are firm in those who are the rights or possibilities of the company, of course we, representing the State, could also have a firm relationship with the company. If it was for our sake, or not, that the stations stopped being closed and began to be opened, it is not a matter for us to worry. What we are interested in is that they are being opened and, if they are not until the end of the negotiations for the new concession contract, they can be sure that this will be ensured in the new concession contract. But it doesn't seem to me that we can call the opening of mail stations in Vila Flor, or in Alpiarça, or in Melgaço, or in Redondo, or in Aljustrel. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] Mr President, you said it was a media maneuver. Therefore, if you have the courage to repeat this, do so with the populations of Vila Flor, Alpiarça, Melgaço, Dondo, Aljustrel, Manteigas. There are still many councils, where this opening must be made, Mr President. Who will guarantee openness in all? It's the Government of the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will also be the Government of the Socialist Party that will ensure that the concession contract has requirements, in terms of quality of service, that it did not have in the last concession contract. And it will also be the Government of the Socialist Party to demand, in the new concession contract, a fairer relationship between the TTCs and local authorities, in this case the fregetes. To all of you. Members who have asked questions I want to say the following: regardless of whether the company is public or private, a concession contract has to exist. It must exist because there must be a transparent relationship between the State and its companies, whether they are private or, in this case, public. Therefore, the concession contract must exist, we want it to continue to exist, regardless of the other debate that you legitimately bring here and that we do not exclude. In the face of the questions of the return of the State to the TCCs, I tell you what I have already said in the initial intervention: we do not exclude it. But there is still a way to go, a very important way to go, that will alert you to all the issues that you have put here. If we fail to guard these issues, we have no doubt that we will not hesitate to take the measures necessary to defend a company that is important to us and important to the Portuguese people, to defend jobs, to defend the quality of service and to defend a density that guarantees territorial cohesion. So when they ask whether we are going to prevent the closure, of course, in the concession contract with certainty, but the truth is that they are no longer closing. When they ask whether we are going to ensure that they all, at least, open a post station per municipality — I say post station, so that there is no confusion of words here — we will guarantee this in the concession contract. And, as far as the parish board is concerned, we're going to do the same. I would also like to note that, if it is true that the postal service in Portugal is 500 years old, CTTs are an heir to this postal service. Therefore, we can say that postal service in Portugal has a 500-year relationship with the Portuguese people, with the State. I wanted to leave this note because, recently, we spoke of 100 years of CTT, but postal service exists five centuries ago in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u34	I've been talking about CTTs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u35	Therefore, your concerns, in particular in terms of density, in terms of quality, in terms of respect for the parish boards, will seek to be worked in the framework of the negotiation of the concession contract. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u36	Mr. Minister, there are five others. Members registered to request clarification. To that end, Mrs Marcia Passos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor first.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u37	Mr President, Minister, the granting of the universal postal service has been based on solid bases since 19 November 2013, with the publication of Decree-Law No 160 / 2013 of 19 November 2013. Since then, it has been the responsibility of the Government, on the one hand, and of the regulatory entity ANACOM, on the other hand, to monitor the concession. What is urgent is whether the government has made such scrutiny and follow-up. If he did, he had the opportunity to consider legislative changes and to hand over all existing mechanisms to correct irregularities and to stop what went less well. But we have not seen any government initiatives in this regard, so either it did not monitor it or, having done so, it did not conclude by the need to make or impose corrections and adjustments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u38	In turn, the regulatory entity, following the option of privatization and concession, following the imposition of the troika memorandum, monitored, monitored and reviewed monitoring indicators, making them more comprehensive and demanding, and induced positive changes from the TTC administration. It is therefore necessary to understand how the government will be positioned at the end of the concession, which will take place on 31 December of the current year. Will you resist the temptation of the parties on the left? Has the government already done studies to weigh the matter down? Have you done the cost-benefit analysis, in view of the scenarios that can be placed? Mr Minister, it took six years and now only a few months for the end of the concession. Is it now that these studies are going to be done? Now is the government going to worry about whether or not the model has failed? Mrs. Members, the PSD does not feed ideological myths about this matter. Its concern is to ensure that postal services, such as others, are guided by criteria of rigor and excellence and serve the Portuguese. It is therefore necessary to ask: Minister, what does the Government want for the future after 31 December 2020? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u39	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor of Mr. João Paulo Correia of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u40	Mr President, Mr Minister, in good time this Parliament requested an audit of the General Inspection of Finance on the granting of the universal postal service to the CTT company and the process and the form of privatization of the CTT company in the years 2013 and 2014. This audit is now from the knowledge of this Parliament. And the conclusions of this audit are very clear: the privatization of TTCs was a colossal mistake that greatly damaged the public interest of citizens and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u41	Cite where this is written!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u42	Let us come to the conclusions, three very strong and clear conclusions of this report. The first is that the universal postal service deteriorated after 2013, the year in which the company was privatized, the year in which the universal postal service was granted to the private company CTT. The second conclusion is that the financial sustainability of this private company is the universal postal service, because it is the gains that come from the universal postal service that compensate for the negative margins of the other activities of this company. A third conclusion, the one we least expected, but the one that is at the same time the most worrying, concerns the ownership of the goods affected by the granting of the universal postal service, in this case under the responsibility of the private company CTT. In this regard, the General Inspection of Finance says that it is important to clarify, because, on the one hand, who made the legislative amendments, as the report of the General Inspection of Finance, in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 who ruled and who had a majority were the PSD and the CDS, authors of these legislative amendments, and who led these legislative changes so that today there are doubts about the ownership of the goods affected by the concession. From 2013 onwards, from the privatisation of the company, these assets became part of the CTT private company balance sheet. And from 2013 onwards, the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance began to issue a statement to the company saying that the State does not have goods in its public domain and its private domain affected by this concession. In other words, the way in which the PSD and the CDS have privatized this market has transformed this market into a natural monopoly, because when the government, at the end of the concession period, reopening the negotiation process there is currently only one company able to compete for this concession, which is the privatized CTT company, because no other company has the network of counters that is currently in the possession of the private company CTT. Therefore, the question we would like to ask, Minister, is whether at the end of the concession, whose contract ends at the end of this year, the goods affected by the granting of the universal postal service to the private undertaking CTT will return to the State, as initially said, the concession bases made and approved years before privatisation, or remain in the CTT company, in accordance with the legislative amendments made by the previous Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u43	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, before moving on to ask some questions according to the intervention that the Minister has made, I would like to take up the question raised by Mr João Paulo Correia. The honourable Member said that in good time the Assembly of the Republic asked the IGF for an audit of the TTCs. Those who say « in good time » refer to February 2018. Therefore, two years ago the Assembly of the Republic requested this audit. These results and these conclusions which Mr. João Paulo Correia has just mentioned and highlighted have arrived at the Assembly of the Republic last December and on 13 January, if the Minister is reminded, the CFP asked him a question on this subject precisely, taking into account the alerts of the IGF report. We do not mention the report because we did not want to trade the accessory for the essentials. We didn't want to discuss the confidentiality of the report, but he was here. And we raised this issue, of having a private management of a public service, which has the knife and cheese in hand on the information of the heritage itself that is assigned to it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u46	We raised this issue and the Minister acknowledged the difficulty that the country is experiencing in this matter. But also in this matter, what is important to question is why an audit that is requested by the Assembly of the Republic in February 2018 arrives at the Assembly of the Republic in December 2019, more than one year later, when in December 2018 it was already in the Government. Why did this audit, which was requested by the House two years ago, come now, when it had been available for another year to the government? What conclusion has been drawn that these warnings have been withdrawn last year and what measures have been taken in a timely manner?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u47	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u48	That is the question that the CFP asked more than two months ago, Minister. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for your intervention, Mr Minister was absolutely clear in the criticism of the privatisation of TTCs and came to test a self-criticism about the position of defence of privatization that the PS took in the past,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u49	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u50	... either in the Troika Attack Pact, or in the PEC IV (Stability and Growth Plan), in particular. The problem is that this clarity with which you spoke about the past is the clarity that the government lacks to talk about the future,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u51	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u52	... about the future of TTCs, their workers, the service they provide to the people, businesses and the country. Mr Minister, the CFP reaffirms — and reaffirms it - as often as necessary — that the central problem is not the concession, it is privatization!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u54	It is that, when the bet is the degradation of the public service to ensure private profit, there are no concessions or bullet-proof contracts that guarantee, on their own, the interest of the people and the country. I give you three or four very recent examples of this in recent times. Blue mail envelopes are no longer available, with users being pushed to pay more than 30 cents in green mail, or 400 % in express mail. And this has to do with a delivery service in 24 hours, which, once, in the times of public management, the CTTs came to guarantee for the overwhelming majority of normal mail. With the technologies, this was all much slower.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u55	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u56	The price of the postal vouchers increased from 1, 48 € to 2 €, about 35 % ; the renewal of one section in the mail went from 30 € to 46 € ; the re-shipping service—used by people who change their address, for example—has increased from 9, 84 € to 30, 75 €, an increase of more than 300 %. And, Mr Minister, we do not ignore the reopening of the mail stations which, the accounts, are being checked. from here we greet the people, the users and the workers, because it is worth fighting! What we say is that the country had more than 1,000 mail stations and today has less than 500 and we are far from what is indispensable to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u58	Therefore, we say that it is important to go further and to assume, in an effective way, national interest as a priority, to choose the country and not the profits of the economic groups. For that, you can count on the PCP, but not to keep everything in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u59	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Minister, in response to the first round of requests for clarification, the Minister has come to consider an injustice the responsibility attributed to the Socialist Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u61	Isn't that the same as yours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u62	I think it was important, without any problem of the responsibility we have in privatizing the company—and we discuss the responsibility we have in privatizing the company—to remember the responsibility of the Socialist Party. I'm just referring to some data. It was during a Government of the Socialist Party that there was a further reduction in postal establishments in Portugal in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u63	That's not true! It was in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u64	It's true, it's.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u65	It was in 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u66	I'm talking about postal establishments!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u67	They weren't postal establishments, they were stations!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u68	I refer to the closure of postal establishments in 2010. This was the year in which there was a higher reduction in postal establishments. Then it was duly...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u69	Postal establishments can be mercenary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u70	Mr. Member, postal establishments are postal establishments. And the biggest reduction was in 2010. Then it was the Socialist Party that enrolled the privatization of the TTCs in the Troika memorandum. It was not the first time that the Socialist Party defended the privatization of CTTs! [[PS protests.]] Therefore, let us not say that it was a matter of the emergence of the Troika Government, because the Socialist Party had already defended it before.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u71	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u72	Mr Minister, I am glad you say that, because that was the final question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u73	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u74	So the Minister comes here, on behalf of the same party he proposed here, saying that it was 'good', saying now 'bad'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u75	Because it's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u76	And the Members who in the past beat up José Socrates, who said 'well', now beat up Mr Minister, who says 'bad'! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] What we ask is: what is the credibility of the Socialist Party, when, with the same people sitting on its bench, they once speak about privatizing and say "good" and beating palms, and, again, Mr Minister says that it was wrong to privatize and these same people say "good" again and beat palms? The question is exactly that! If we want to discuss responsibility, we need to know what it stands for.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u77	It's learning!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u78	And this discussion is not only about time, it is also about the object, because everything that Mr Minister here said about not taking stronger measures — such as those which, as he said at the end of the intervention, could be taken — was all that the Government of the Socialist Party found there was no problem in doing, differently, in the TAP. So, after all, why do you think that it is impossible to do anything until the end of this year and until the end of the concession contract and to do so in the TAP? I now ask another question: as regards improving postal service in Portugal, can we expect that the result of government action — with the measures to be taken in the TTCs to improve the situation — be the same as we had in the TAP, in relation to air service, after you take measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u79	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u80	It is that if you want to do the same thing you did in the TAP, perhaps, you'd better stay still. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u81	You have the floor to make the last request for clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, you are quite right when you say that today we should not be talking about this, that there are far more serious problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u83	I didn't say we shouldn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u84	But his initial intervention, those revolutionary neo-marxists filled me with hope that, at the end of those five ideas, there would be a program of brutal renationalizations here. But not 20 %, or 10 % or 15 % of TTCs take on! It looks like those kids who throw the stone and hide their hand. Worse, it looks like those kids who start eating fish because they do good to the brain, they find a spine, and they don't even work to learn how to take the spine and stop eating fish. But the brain is needed. And it takes the brain to deal with things like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u85	That's neither meat nor fish!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u86	Let me do a little review of what happened with the CTTs. In 2013 / 2014, a company was privatized, assessed at best, in 580 million euros, by 900 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u87	It's true! Here we go!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u88	It was the State, other parties, but the same State - I hope that the unity of the State will remain beyond this legislature. Therefore, we have a company with a business to fall 7 %, 8 %, 9 % per year, sold by 900 million. So far, I've heard. Then it takes brains to see what's going on in the CTTs and what's still going on in the CTTs. They say private people were the ones who fired most. Liar! In the last five years of public administration, 3000 jobs have been lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u89	It was for privatization!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u90	In the first five years of private management, 200 jobs were created. They say it was the private who shut down the most establishments and posts. It's a lie! In the last five years of public management, there were 430 closures; in the first five years of private management, there were 54 openings or reopenings. They say private people don't invest. It's a lie! In the last five years of public management, there was EUR 100 million in investment; in the first five years of private management, we have EUR 151 million in investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u91	Part of it must have been for your salary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u92	They say prices went up wildly. It's a lie! In the 28 countries of the European Union, it was the eight that have grown less and continue to be the third lowest prices of the European Union. Then they say they've damaged the service. It's not really true. In 2018, the overall service quality index was met, had a maximum since 2016. And, of the 11 indicators at the time, 9 were met, 2 were not, but with improvements. What does ANACOM do? Increases the 11 indicators to 26. Let's see if these regulators, who lend nothing, who are weak, etc. They're doing something now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u93	I could ask a few questions too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u94	Mr Minister, it is important, in these matters, to be strict. What is deeply wrong with TTC is the model of concession and the form of concession that has been assigned. This model is deeply wrong and the Liberal Initiative recognizes it here, now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u95	What is it? What is it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u96	Therefore, we have the courage, at the end of the year, to establish a model of concession that effectively works, not only from the point of view of the universal postal service, but also from the point of view of what taxpayers spend on this postal service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u97	You have the floor to answer this set of five requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u98	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Silva, let's not talk about bitola, don't worry. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD Member, who, with the active company of the CDS, has privatised TTCs in the forms in which it has been made, is asking the current government whether the action of TTCs has been monitored. So you thought the state should leave the CTT entirely, and that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u99	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u100	Well, it's no use... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u101	I'm asking the ladies. Members to let the Minister conclude the reasoning and respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u102	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo could teach you some things. In the model of regulation that you wanted, and that you so much defend, who does the supervision, in your model, in the model of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u103	It's the regulator!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u104	...is the regulatory entity. You have already ruled, you know. So it's not the government that controls it. However, we have never ceased to recognize what you have had a great difficulty in recognising: service degradation, job closure, relationship with the fregetical boards in which you put them to finance the TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u106	You have not been able to recognize! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Almeida, in the image of the old accusing policy of saying « it was PS and PSD, it was PS and CDS and PSD... »...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u107	You're not answering!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u108	Sir, it wasn't. It's just that Mr. CDS Member João Almeida, if you'll see,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] If Mr. João Almeida is to see the intervention again, at no time,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u109	It wasn't in the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u110	Mr. Deputies, at no time do I directly attack the PSD and the CDS. What I do—and that's what we all have to do! — to evaluate, to analyze what we have done wrong and to learn. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Mr Deputy said: 'The PS has defended the privatisation of TTCs! It was inscribed in the memoir of the troika, there was the privatization of the CTTs. Now, five to six years went by, the service deteriorated, the stations closed, the workers complained. You have learned nothing; we have learned! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u111	And there are those who learned at the time!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u112	Mr. João Cotrim, a respectable radical, comes here to defend the CTTs and the CTT shareholders better than the CTTs have defended themselves in our relationship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[BE's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u113	Everyone's for what's born!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u114	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, liberal and radical, who is today a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, representing the Portuguese people and not the shareholder — who, believe it, does not need his defence — I, as a ruler, would like, in the same way that we are demanding with them, the honourable Member, when they passed this information to him, that text was also demanding and that Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u115	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u116	“ Hey ”? Oh, my God! Open... [[Protests from CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] I would also like you to be able to question the CTTs on the degradation of the service, which is stated by ANACOM and IGF, on the closure of stations « the wrong and the right », as confirmed by ANACOM and IGF. Did you also ask the private questions? Oh, my God! It is about them that I have not said anything here, because you have spent all your time defending an shareholder who does not need his defense and who, in fact, in the leadership of the TTCs, has not provided the service to which the Portuguese people, as all Mrs. Members represent, I was used to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You have an advantage, Mr President: you say what you are coming to, you show who you represent, and that is fundamental in political life, that is to say, that we have the ability and courage to take on what we represent, what we believe in. The honourable Member uses his speech against a government which actually finds that there are problems with the TTCs to which he has to respond. And if we fail to achieve this in the direct relationship with them, then it will have to be through negotiation of the concession contract. [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]] What the honourable Member is saying before this House is that everything is fine and that the private have managed the TTCs impeccablely.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u117	Be honest! How did the intervention end? Oh, my God! Be honest!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u118	Ask the word and speak again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u119	That's selective memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u120	Mr President, there is one thing I will tell you: the Government of the Republic will always defend the people, the users of the TTCs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We do not exclude as long as the PCP, the Left Block, the PEV and, perhaps, the PAN, defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u121	I'm not sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u122	We didn't exclude her! There is, however, an important work to be done to ensure that the interests of the Portuguese people that have not been guarded either by privatization or by the concession contract. Privatization has not been well done, privatization is a problem. But we are talking about a company that has been the target of a radical societal change a few years ago, which has caused serious disturbances in the life of the company, and, before we do the work that you are demanding here, there is still a lot of way to go. Obviously, in the area of density, if we impose a minimum or maximum limit, if we impose conditions for coverage of the territory, if we impose conditions for quality levels more ambitious than those that existed at the beginning of the concession,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u123	Don't solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u124	... if we guarantee, through the concession, better relationship with local authorities, we are making a big contribution. We are not saying that our intervention ends there. We are saying that there is a lot of work to be done in relation to the TTCs at this level. The question is not limited to the systematic attack between us, but to the ability to look back and to understand together what went right and what went wrong. In life, as in politics, as in governance, we systematically have to go learning and withdrawing lessons from what has been done. Several of the privatizations made were wrong and the people are paying the worst way these privatizations. And it is bad that you do not have the ability to read the past, to be able to draw conclusions about it and to defend the correct measures. That's what we're doing right now. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u125	We will enter the intervention period. For an intervention, Mr Jorge Mendes has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: The appeal to the Government, of the Left Block initiative, has as its theme the « crisis in postal service and the recovery of public control of TTCs ». It follows other parliamentary initiatives, with emphasis on Bill No 84 / XIV / 1. the, which intended to establish the regime for the nationalization of TTCs, plummeted by a large majority last December in this House. The Left Block has systematically invoked an alleged continued degradation of the public service provided by CTT since its privatisation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u127	‘Alegada’? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u128	You don't think it's proven? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u129	... as a justification for their nationalisation or public control, position contrary to the indicators presented by ANACOM, in particular in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The PSD, a party that has always assumed its responsibilities during the governance of the country, is and will be available for this debate because it is not tied to dogmatic or extremist positions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u130	Yeah! It's only bound to privatize!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u131	... on behalf of the public interest, in case I appreciate the universal public postal service. To the left, whenever it invokes national interest, this service can only be public.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u132	That's no excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u133	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, from the analysis of the various legislative initiatives of the left, which have entered this House and have already been discussed in this Parliament, some delegations can and should withdraw: what is concerned is not the quality of the services provided by the CTT, with the alleged degradation of them, after privatization, as the radical left wants us to believe, relegating to the second plane profound and substantive changes that the postal sector is going through worldwide, as a result of the acceleration of digitization in recent years, that all the political spectrum applauds, with obvious environmental benefits, but with side effects on the universal postal service business.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u135	What is at stake here is not the contribution to solving some problems or difficulties faced by TTCs in managing the granting of the universal postal public service, regardless of ownership of capital, whether public or private, because they are inherent to the difficulties of the sector in a constantly changing world. When the TTCs were 100 % public did not lock up dozens of counters and posts throughout the country, especially in the interior? What is at stake here are fundamental ideological issues, because the debate between public services or public interest is essentially ideological. The radical left argues that the public service must be provided by public authorities and, to the limit, there is only good public services if they are provided by public entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u136	If they're public, what do you want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u137	What is at stake here is that the radical left does not pardon the privatisation of TTCs carried out by the PSD/CDS Government in compliance with the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, agreed with the European Union, the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank, signed in May 2011 by the PSD and PS, which the latter systematically denies or devalues as « a document ». In point 3.31, Privatisations, the terms of the commitments which the PS Government has made are very explicit. It is mentioned that the Government will speed up — it will accelerate! — the privatisation programme, which had already come from the PECs. The existing plan for the period up to 2013 covered transport — airports, TAP and CP Load — energy — Galp, EDP and REN ( National Energy Networks ) — communications — CTT — and insurance — Safe Box — as well as a number of smaller companies. The decision of the PSD/CDS Government to privatize TCDs was not merely a whim or evil, nor was it to punish the Portuguese, as they insist on making us believe. It was to honour the commitments made with the rescue of the bankruptcy country, which the Government of the Socialist Party had led us to. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u138	What's in issue here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not the deployment of the CTT heritage, flag of the Left Block, because the assets of the CTTs between 2013 and 2019 have increased to 600 million euros,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u139	It's for Lacerda's millionaire wages!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u140	... but, yes, the timing of the political and media agenda of the radical left, which needs to bring to the debate, perhaps, fracturing themes to win positions in contrast to the strategy, or to the absence of this, of the Socialist Party. With government inaction, at least apparently, the field is open to protests and the fake news for news consumption, all of the interest of the PS, especially of its most radical wing, which feeds the debate in the eagerness to find in the parties of the far left the decisive balances for its parliamentary and governmental survival. Or would a nationalization of TTCs not allow left-wing parties to achieve new spheres of power or influence, which they have not achieved in the polls? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u142	You have doubts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! It is to be attentive to government interventions, in particular the Minister present here, Pedro Nuno Santos. These are interventions that show the clarity of the PS position throughout 2019 and 2020, identical, or almost identical, to the speech of the last five years of the Socialist Party Government : « Yes, perhaps, we shall see ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u144	I repeat : « Yes, perhaps, let's see». [[PSD applause.]] It is in this ambivalent context, in which the PS seems to like something and its opposite, that we will be able to find justifications for the Resolution Project No 108 / XIV / 1. the, of this legislation, in which the Socialist Party recommends to the Government that safeguard the quality of the universal public service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u145	You voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u146	... where it should require the Government to submit the work plan and its timing for decision-making on the forms of renewal or not of the granting of TTCs. The postal service contract is in force and the PSD requires it to be completed under the terms of contracts under the supervision of ANACOM and the Government. More than any other political force, the PSD expects the regulator ANACOM to be rigorous and sensible and to exercise fully its regulatory functions rather than behave, as seems to be in some interventions on the sector, as a political actor. the Government is responsible for the definition and policy guidelines for the universal postal service in Portugal, taking into account the Community framework. As a result, the Prime Minister, in a reply given during the debate brought here in December by the CFP, was clear : « At the very moment the Government will take a position on whether or not to grant the public service ». That is to say at the end of 2020. In turn, the Minister of Infrastructure, accompanied by the Secretary of State for Communications recently, does not take part in the capital of the TTCs, or, alternatively, obtain a robust concession contract. These are statements that are worth what they are worth. But, Minister, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, has the Government already asked for substantive technical studies on the assessment of the concession and of the following routes? Comparative studies on the sector in Portugal and the European Union? Cost/benefit analyses about alternatives?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u147	And you guys, didn't you privatize? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u148	Or is the government letting the time run for later we are faced with another case, like that of Montijo airport, and continuing to arrange new alibis for any decision, referring again to the privatisation process? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in the past, when it was necessary and imperative to make difficult decisions, but of national salvation, with an impact on the lives of the Portuguese, the PSD said « present ». Now it is the time of the PS and the government to honour the commitments made by the State. The PSD here will be for future discussions on this subject. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u149	I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government. Two Mrs were registered. Members to request clarification, having Mr. Jorge Salgueiro Mendes informed the Bureau that he wishes to answer together. For a request for clarification, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u150	Mr President, Mr Jorge Mendes, during the governance of the PSD and the CDS, what remained of the public TTCs was privatised, a privatization in the era of the troika, which actually sold the country at a balance price, without any problem. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] They ensured the transformation of postal service in Portugal into a counter for the sale of financial products. They delivered the TTCs to private management, which has worked more as the company's liquidity commission than as a real service to all Portuguese. The same ones who did all this hit the results. They say that « allegedly», there are some problems that the left poses in this debate. They are satisfied with the devaluation maneuver of strategic companies. This was his political role during his governance: disassembly the public capacity of the services and strategic production to then sell. They didn't have a problem doing that! In fact, we remember that the rulers of the governments on the right used that pin of the Portuguese flag to the chest, which was, in fact, the pin of easy privatizations, the pin of patriotism that, at the time of truth, sold the country at the price of balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u151	All right! [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u152	We are well aware of the right-wing strategy regarding the defence of the State as a social state and as responsible for services for Portuguese. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The honourable Member is reluctant to come to the debate, with all the will, to justify the problem of the management of TTCs with technological innovation...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u153	And that doesn't change anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u154	That's what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u155	...and then he says that the left has an ideological problem with the services of the CTTs. In other words, in private, the company already has the capacity to make this digital transition, but in the public, it was always impossible to happen, was it not, Mr. Deputies? We understand well how far the ideological orthodoxy of the PSD goes. The problem is not the role they signed in 2011, the problem is that in 2019 and 2020 they continue to defend exactly the same strategy for the country: privatization of essential sectors. They don't make any reflection on what was sold to the country at balance price! And the most interesting thing is that the party that sold the TTCs completely irresponsible now has the courage to ask for decency and studies in the next decisions. There's a decorum, Mr. Deputies! [[Congratulations from BE and the Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u156	For a request for clarification, Mr Hugo Oliveira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Jorge Mendes, if the debate we are having today is the responsibility of the Left Block, already the subject of the same debate, that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u158	It's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u159	... is the full responsibility of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u160	Oh! You've really been watching!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u161	It's the responsibility of the Socialist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u162	The crisis of postal service and the recovery of public control of TTCs, this issue, is even your responsibility. [[All right!]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u163	This responsibility of the PSD comes in the irresponsible way as in 2014 they privatized a public enterprise providing a universal postal service throughout our territory; a company with very high levels of performance that historically has always had a central role in territorial cohesion; a company that between 2005 and 2012 gave more than 500 million euros of profit to the State and which was a reference at European level on postal services. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] In addition to this privatisation of TTCs a concession of postal service has been made without a serious and complete study of the public interest in the provision of postal service, once the State's participation in TTCs has been lost. The consequence of this ruinous and irresponsible sale was the degradation of postal service, the closure of stations, the alarming decrease in the number of employees and the progressive loss of the greatest heritage of TTCs: the confidence and respect of Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u164	Therefore, the question that must be asked to the PSD Parliamentary Group is this: how dare they present themselves to this debate as paladins of the defense of universal postal service and of the highest public interest,... [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] ... when are the undeniable ones responsible for giving the name "the postal crisis" to today's debate? Oh, my God! The PSD position in this debate is a sad exercise of selective amnesia,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... but the Portuguese do not forget that the PSD was the protagonist of the degradation of postal service in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u165	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u166	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions raised, which will only enrich the debate. Mrs. Members, in December 2017, my colleague Luís Leite Ramos mentioned in this House, in relation to CTTs, that « the lack of memory is not a rare disease in the Members of the Socialist Party ». And it's terrible, because you make the table of the agreement they signed in 2011, where the privatisation of TTCs is found. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u167	Whether you like it or not, it was the gentlemen who wrote it. It was you who committed mortal sin! [[PSD applause.]] We assume our responsibilities and therefore the PSD alienated a company that included the Stability Pact...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u168	This is no longer a matter of responsibility, it is the need of the population!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u169	... worth EUR 900 million when the assessment was between EUR 450 million and EUR 550 million. I think it was a bad business, that it was a bad business for the state is a crime of liga-father and that above all, it shocks the Portuguese for the sacrifices they made in a difficult period, from 2011 to 2014.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u170	They sold a registering box full of money!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u171	But if there are errors, it is up to ANACOM and the government, which have the supervisory power over the sector, to resolve them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u172	It's true! All right! The concession did not provide for the closure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u173	Resolve!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u174	The PSD didn't sell anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u175	So it is the government that now has to solve this problem, but we will be here, available for debate and to make our contributions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u176	It was weak, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u177	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group has marked this appeal to the Government on universal postal service, an issue which we consider to be of the most important relevance to the lives of the Portuguese, even though today many other concerns are in the minds of the Portuguese, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on us to focus on the debate brought here and on the consequences of this for our people. The CTT company has a long history, a history that has 500 years of postal service, which are completed in November of this year, having its origin a decree by King Manuel I. They are 500 years of a reference of sovereignty, integration and territorial cohesion. At various times of difficulty, TTCs were an important pillar of our sovereignty, showing still its resilience, manifested in the ability to resist the challenge of the times. It was an institution that, until very recently, reached all the councils of our territory, regardless of whether they were on the coast or on the interior or whether we were in one of the two autonomous regions. The TTCs have always had very relevant results under public management, both in the economic perspective and in the view of the public service provided, always functioning as a tool of social cohesion and enabling the approximation of territories and people. Efficacy and efficiency levels were clear and positive. However, in 2013, the government of that time transferred 70 % of the capital and, in 2014, in a liberal logic in which the market resolves everything, erroneously decided to alienate the remaining capital. The total financial contribution would be around EUR 900 million. The Assembly of the Republic requested the General Inspection of Finance to report on this privatisation process and its consequences, and for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group this same report should be public in a logic of transparency. More than seeking guilty, this process of privatization can only be classified in bold letters as a manifest error, placing Portugal as one of the few countries with a universally privatized postal service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, neither the countries of the highest exponent of economic liberalism have ever made the universal postal service totally private. We well know that it is often said in debate that postal service, as it is, is a falling business, but according to data become public, between 2013 and 2017, it was this same universal public postal service that financed other sectors of activity of the group. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, obviously, with the digital transition and changes in society, is decreasing the sending of written correspondence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u179	Ah! After all, there was another one! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u180	...but she is still a necessity. I stress the particular importance of looking at the interior and the older regions, where often the handling of information technologies is not easy or is not even accessible to a significant group of the population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a result of the privatisation process, TTCs came to a logic for closing stations, particularly within the country, and for reducing the number of workers and the quality of service. of existing data, and according to the service regulator, ANACOM, since the privatisation process, the quality of the service decreased in delivery times, the density of access points, the regularity and reliability of the service. This story, as well as those responsible for it, ends up being one of the blackest points in this 500-year history of the national postal company. in recent times, and also following the recommendations adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, we have been watching a reopening of the stations in the municipalities that had been left without them. The Assembly of the Republic approved — with the vote against the PSD, it stressed — an initiative to ensure that all the municipalities in the country benefit from at least one mail station in their territory, safeguarding the reopening of mail stations closed in the municipalities without universal postal service. By the end of 2020, the universal postal service will end. It will be for the Government to ensure that, whatever model to be implemented, TTCs have the capacity to ensure the quality of the universal public service and that populations are respected in the implementation of this proximity service. from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, all scenarios are open, with the responsibility of defending the public interest and the quality of service, and we will always be intransigent in the defense of our peoples and the obligation of the universal public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u181	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u182	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. Members: Today, the country is debating itself with a huge public health crisis. There is debate outside, with a great deal of panic in our communities, in our villages, in our cities, and what we have in this Parliament is the debate on renationalizing TTCs. It will be interesting when the Portuguese, at night, turn on television and see that Parliament has been discussing the renationalisation of the postal services today. What a beautiful picture Parliament will give! On the day that Europe and the world are debating one of the biggest public health problems in recent years, Portugal sets a bad example in combating one of the biggest health crises in the last few decades that the world faces! What did we discuss? Repurchasing Mails! At the time when the President of the Socialist Party admits that we will have a corrective budget, the Left Block wants to put more money on the TTCs. On the day that most analysts, ministers and former ministers say we will have to inject more money into public health, more money in the fight against this epidemic, here we discussed putting millions, millions, millions, to buy the TTCs back. [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] These are the priorities for who defines them and, tonight, the Portuguese will be very happy to know what we were doing here, during the afternoon: discuss the repurchasing of the CTTs. Mr Minister, I could not stop quoting because there are several times when it deserves to be quoted. Today, he said: « We do not exclude nationalisation. » A month and a half ago, he said: « We admit any solution, but it is not on the table that nationalization. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u183	One more walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u184	After all, you're also discussing the CTTs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u185	Two and a half months ago, he said that this was a possibility, but that the PS will first bet on the renegotiation and approval of a new model of concession for the post. The Minister said here that he represents the people. For, then, if you represent it, you begin by explaining to this people how much it would cost to renationalize TTCs, how much taxes would increase and how much all Portuguese would pay for it. It was a good service that would provide these taxpayers and that people who say they represent. More curious is that it was the PS itself that, in 2017, presented a project, saying: « We accept the return of TTCs to public control. » The extreme left does not realize that it is always the same strategy: "We admit, but we do not. Maybe we think, but we're not going to make it happen. It may be on the table, but it won't end. » And it must always be this way, we will always continue with the PS saying that maybe one day, perhaps never. The truth of the facts is this: there have been fewer redundancies now than in recent years of public management of TTCs. What can we negotiate? A new concession contract, a new model of concession for the postal services, the imposition that they are in all the municipalities of this country, the need — and this can be done by granting — that workers' rights are effectively fulfilled and that stations are opened in all the municipalities of the country. That's possible. Renationalize places Portugal at the level of a Venezuela or Cuba, where negotiation is always the same...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u186	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u187	I will finish, Madam President. [[BE's protests.]] As I was saying, in these countries the debate is always the same: pay, put more money on taxpayers and taxes! And we don't have the biggest tax burden on Europe or anything! Portugal doesn't have the biggest tax burden ever, nor anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u188	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u189	...and, therefore, there may be a smiling minister here, saying "Let's put more taxes, the Portuguese will pay"...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u190	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u191	But at the end of the day, what we're going to have is a much worse service and the Portuguese paying more taxes! [[PS protests.]] That's the truth! That is the truth of the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u192	Mr President, I should like to thank you for concluding and thanking you also for your attention to the indications of the Bureau. For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament today, for the second time in this Parliament, discusses the issue of the model of granting the universal postal service to be implemented from 2021. However, this is the first time that we have the presence of the government and that we are aware of the outcome of the audit to the functioning of the universal postal service required in 2017 for the General Financial Inspection, and that only this year arrived at the Assembly of the Republic. The NAP has warned of the lack of responsibility and transparency of the Government in the management of the negotiation process of the contract for the granting of universal postal service. The public interest, the quality of the postal service and the guarantee of citizens make it urgent for the government to assume, in a clear way, what perspective it will adopt regarding the model of concession. However, and despite the concession agreement approaching the long steps towards its end, on the part of the Government and the PS, what we have had so far is uncertainty on the subject, and it seems to us increasingly certain that this structural decision for the country and for the citizens will, as we feared, remain even for 25. The hour. in this debate, the NAP presents itself with a clear position: the concession must be attributed to TTCs and its current structure must be maintained, but the government must ensure a decisive participation of the State in its social capital in order to ensure management oriented towards the quality of the service and the safeguarding of the interest of users. This proposal was presented in a draft resolution awaiting Parliament's vote, which seeks to ensure a balanced solution that guarantees the recovery of an active role of the State in the management of TTCs, avoiding too high costs and without compromising the financial sustainability of the country. Degrading the quality of services is now clear on the day-to-day basis of citizens. Let us see: ANACOM recently noted that in 2019 the claims for TTCs increased by 12 %, making a total of 23 000 claims. Moreover, the successive failure to comply with the universal public service quality indicators in 2018 forced ANACOM to reduce CTT prices. Also, the DECO (Consumer's Defence) publicly presented data that point to the discontent of citizens with the services provided, demonstrating that waiting time is what causes the most unsatisfactory users, who, on average, wait 18 minutes to be cared for. The audit conducted by the General Finance Inspectorate confirms the degradation of the quality of the company's services, which, moreover, was already of general knowledge. According to this audit, the quality standards required in the satisfaction of the universal postal service show a degradation of the quality of the service after 2013, more marked in 2016 and 2017. In addition, with this audit we found that the CTT's accounting data show that between 2013 and 2017 the profit margins of the universal postal service are what compensates for the loss of the remaining activities carried out by the company, that the company's assessment, at the time of privatisation, was made below the net value that ended up obtaining at the end of the entire process and that the State, prior to privatization, gave up more than 12 million euros from the capital reduction, which eventually reverted to the private ones. These problems in the universal postal service are, to a large extent, justified by an option of private managers, who have sought to maximize their profit through the sale of real estate, the decrease in the number of workers, the secondaryization of postal distribution services, due to the bet on the CTT Bank and the commercial aspect, and the closure of stations by the country. in this debate we must not forget the responsibility of the PSD government / CDS-PP in the total privatization of TTCs in 2014. This was an unnecessary measure, as it was a profitable company. In addition, the Troika memorandum did not require its full privatization. The €5, €5 billion required by the troika had already been reached and €9, €2 million of net privatisation revenue had made a small contribution to reducing public debt that year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was not to save the country or to pay for the debt that the CTTs privatized themselves, it was to impose a minimal ideological view of state. But I cannot fail to mention with surprise the PS's reactions to the results of the General Financial Inspection audit. When we were convinced that the PS did not close the door to the reversal of the total privatisation of TTCs and that the disclosure of the audit would give rise to this position, we found, for news released in recent days, that the Socialist Party had submitted the question to the Government, apparently revealing that it is more concerned with the reversal to the State of TTC's assets at the end of the operating contract and with the possibility that this circumstance might prevent the allocation of the concession to another private rather than truly with the reversal of the full privatisation of the company. If the PS issues want to mean what they seem, i.e. the defense of the allocation of the concession to another private, what we conclude is that, instead of being working to improve the universal postal service in Portugal, if you are working for another business whose public interest is not the main concern. It seems we want to go from bad to bad and that's unacceptable. We sincerely hope that this has been a manifest misunderstanding on our part. The CTT structure and the know-how of its thousands of workers is something that the country cannot afford to lose. TTCs are not a normal enterprise or private, have long years of history at the service of citizens and also have the honorary status of the Order of Merit, awarded by the Presidency of the Republic. We must therefore avoid entering new experimentalisms and treat TTCs with the dignity they deserve. Moreover, we are more in line with the vision of PS / Porto and Manuel Pizarro that defends, say, responsibly, the return of the State to the social capital of the CTTs. On the other hand, on 20 January, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos said that the State's entry into the CTT capital would be a possibility, but that solution would not be on the table. However, the Under-Secretary of State and Communications, Souto de Miranda, said last month that it is highly likely that TTCs will become partners of the State in the new granting of the universal postal service, which can open the door to the re-entry of the State into the company. I would like to ask the Minister of Infrastructure what is the Government's position on the granting of the universal postal service? In short, it is important to clarify whether or not the Government is considering re-entry of the State into the CTT's social capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u194	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: We are already going to be more than half of this debate and we believe that we have already marked it in good time. We reiterate that we will bring this debate to Parliament as often as necessary, until we can be before a public postal service that reaches all over the territory and which reaches all users with quality. But this debate has also served to show us some things. For example, on the part of PSD and CDS, we realize that there is a weight in the huge consciousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u196	The government is not us! Ask the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u197	And it is so important to be aware of the decision that has been taken that, today, you don't even know what is going on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u198	Ask the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u199	The PSD did not see, the PSD did not hear, the PSD, perhaps, never entered a post station... [[PSD protests.]] To come here to say that there are allegedly problems, i.e.... This weight in consciousness is so great that they don't see anything, they don't hear anything, they don't read ANACOM's reports, they don't even talk to their own authors, right now, to understand the point of the situation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u200	And many are ex-autarchs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u201	So here we have a serious problem of weight in consciousness which apparently also causes amnesia in the honourable Members. PSD Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u203	But we also have a weight in the great consciousness of Mr André Ventura, from the Arrival, who today took the pains of the Rabbit Step PSD and came to defend the privatization model that was made...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u204	He's gone!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u205	It was because the weight in consciousness, in fact, is very large. But, Mr Minister, as has already been said in your speeches, you must have responsibility when you look at this matter. [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u206	This is Stockholm syndrome!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u207	It is necessary to have the responsibility to look at reports that have emerged every year on quality indexes and for information on the provision of public service. And because it is public service that we are talking about in this debate, the public service that must be provided throughout the territory, in the same way, to the entire population, again, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we argue that private management cannot, in its essence, respond to this because it is not its scope. The public service with universal character can only be guaranteed through public management. And again, ladies and gentlemen. Members, yes, that really separates us, because otherwise we would not have this debate. I would like to put something in the debate that seems important to us and that also has to do with the intervention that the PS Parliamentary Group made recently, and with some statements by the Minister himself, which are not new. It is also important to stress that in February 2020 the District Federation of PS / Port has come to defend in a letter sent to the Government the State's capital entry into the CTT company by doing, and well, the same analysis as has been done so far of the degradation of the service. We must have the consciousness and responsibility to look at this analysis and realize that it is true and therefore we need to answer this question. What remains — and hence the marking of this debate — is that the populations and the autarchs need a concrete answer. Some matters have already been mentioned here, in particular the new concession contract and the guarantees that the Government intends to include in the negotiation. But, as has already been said, there is a fundamental matter that is essential and that has to do with the entry of the State into the capital of the TTCs and its nationalisation. And then, yes, there must be — because the people and the autarchs need — a clear definition by the Socialist Party in this matter, whether the Parliamentary Group or the Government itself. That is also what needs to be answered during this debate. This is because it has not yet been clear what the position of the Government is : it will only maintain statements of interest regarding the entry into the TTCs or, finally, whether it will cease to declare interest and move on to a concrete plan for the renationalisation of TTCs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u208	Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I asked for the floor because Mr. André Ventura, who had not had the courage to ask me a question, made an intervention, in question, but left Parliament as quickly as the PSD for the coming. [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u210	The leader of the Portuguese extreme right once again introduced us to Parliament with an intervention on behalf of politicians who respect the people. And we are seeing the respect Mr. André Ventura has for the Portuguese people! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] In fact, Mr. André Ventura, if you were to see the debate, protected in your office, it was important for you to hear us and realize that, given the times...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u211	He's with Antonio Costa! [[Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing: — You are not, no. The meeting is 5 p.m. and 30 minutes late. That was the excuse he gave you.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u212	Are you late? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u213	He is, he is. It was an apology he gave you. Mr Ventura must be in his office listening to us right now. And it was important that Mr. André Ventura, who respects the Portuguese people so much and who is here no longer than the 3 minutes of his intervention, had taken care of the very firm statements he makes. This is because we are before a politician who has already defended everything and its opposite and who, if today defends the privatization of TTCs, can defend nationalization tomorrow. So, he should be even more careful with the positions he defends because, obviously, tomorrow may change. But the bold ignorance leads to ideas going out there that are deeply wrong with the reality that we face in the European space. Here Mr. Deputy, leader of the Portuguese extreme right, said that a return of the state to the capital of the company was to put Portugal at the level of Venezuela and Cuba.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u214	He's competing with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u215	This bold ignorance makes it more difficult for us to discuss seriously in Portugal. The truth is, we have cases too. Mr André Ventura — I hope you're listening to us, hiding and protected in your office or, then, preparing a program for Manhã's Mail TV —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... listen carefully to us and know already that States with 100 % in the capital of the Post Office are only the Netherlands, Malta, Cyprus and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u216	The United Kingdom!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u217	Unless Spain, France, Germany, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden and out there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u218	And the United States!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u219	...are socialist countries such as Venezuela and Cuba. Obviously, we are here before a leader of the Portuguese extreme right to reveal all his ignorance before the country and before the people. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Well, I hope to have an opportunity to count on him in another debate, as we can still count on Mr. João Cotrim of the Liberal Initiative. Dear Mrs. Members, from the viewpoint of the Socialist Party, which does not necessarily have to be that of the PSD and CDS, parties, obviously, in a different political-ideological field, we believe that privatization was a tremendous mistake that the years prove. Obviously, in the face of the traumatic process that has been the total privatisation of TTCs, we would like to look carefully and carefully at what has happened and what real reasons and try, even before the decision we are asked and required here by several parties, namely the CFP, the BE and the Greens, to do an important work, which should not be devalued, and which is to ensure, in relation to and in the negotiation with the shareholders, with the CTT company, the conditions which Mr. Members called for coverage of the territory and for quality and respect for local authority. We did not run away from the debate of privatization, which was clear about its negative aspects and disadvantages, but there is much work to be done and that does not exhaust itself from a re-entry of the state into the capital of the company. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u220	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u221	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, you have just reaffirmed this central idea of the government's speech that there is a lot of work and a lot of way to go before we deal with the concrete issue of public control of TTCs. But there is a problem that we cannot ignore: while this discussion is going to be done and we are talking about the way in which we are going, the private management of the TTCs will dismantle the public service and the concession's own assets. In addition, the IGF report, which the government had already been having for more than a year and only recently arrived at the House — and that is a matter I have to reiterate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u222	Well, well! Mr Bruno Dias ( PCP ) :... and perhaps the Minister may clarify at the end of the debate - says that there will be a deterioration of the public service, the concession itself and its assets and the withdrawal of the most profitable areas by placing them in the financial services, particularly in the CTT Bank, etc. That is why we are left with a public service and a universal postal service which is deeply decharacterized in the face of the initial situation, but, meanwhile, we are doing such work that is to be done and we are going along such a path that will be going on. However, even the brand image of the TTCs, one of the best known images and even loved by the Portuguese — the symbol of the mails — was subjected to a decharacterization operation, the deletion of the identity of the service over time. This is not a coincidence, nor is it innocent; it is an instrumental element in the strategy of a public service dismantling agenda that is urgent to stop, defeat and reverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u223	Talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u224	It is no longer surprising, but it is indeed revolting to see—how, once again, we have seen — the contempt of the PSD and the CDS and its successors for the situation of the populations and the abandonment they suffer with this private management of the TTCs. When it touches the interests of the economic groups, it touches all the alarms and makes sense. The problem is that it has so far been with these political forces which the PS has counted on to reject the return of TTCs to public control.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u225	He's not with us, he's with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u226	That is why we want to stress the importance of stopping, rejecting, inverting, in fact breaking with this right-wing policy and not keeping it with those partners of the past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u227	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u228	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Members and Members: in this last intervention of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to try to summarize some of the issues that have been discussed today in this important debate on TTCs. I cannot fail to make a first comment, knowing that it is not very comfortable to do so about a Member who is not in the Chamber but, taking into account the circumstances and statements of Mr Ventura and the fact that it is more or less common for Mr to arrive late and leave early, we, and I, in particular, will risk doing so. Mr. André Ventura left his place and went to the pulpit to embrace a lot, telling the people and this House that we should be discussing the issue of the moment, that we all know what it is and what concerns all the Members here, I am sure of that. Now, we have all remained, and the Portuguese people too certainly expected to hear Mr. André Ventura in some way explain what his ideas, his projects, his initiatives on this matter and about this very important crisis are. It was a disappointment, Mr. André Ventura! The honourable Member ended up in the usual circus, but worse than ending in the usual circus, he ended up talking about what he thought this House should not be discussing, i.e. the privatization of TTCs. This is absolutely regrettable and we cannot fail to record this kind of behaviour, intolerable to the Assembly of the Republic. The second note that I wanted to leave has to do with a topic that has been transversal in this debate and that has to do with the position of the Socialist Party. I would like to stress something that seems very relevant to me and that it is important to make clear: the Socialist Party is where it has always been.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u229	That's what's necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u230	We're where we've always been. Mr André Silva, Mrs Isabel Pires, Mr João Almeida, Mr João Dias, we are where we have always been because there is a line that separates the Socialist Party from the PSD and the CDS and that is a very clear line that you will understand: what moves us in politics is even the interest of the people. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And, as is the interest of the people who move us, you are strange. It is strange that there are people able to say that, in certain circumstances and in certain contexts, the choice we made was not the best. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u231	That is what we have done and done with transparency, with verticality and to defend the interests of the people of Portugal. That's what we do, but you don't understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You do not understand this, because it is not very clear to you that what moves us is the population. Many times, we don't know what really moves you. This is the difference between the Socialist Party and the PSD and the CDS. I would also like to say, in conclusion, and this seems clear in this debate, that privatization has indeed been a mistake — and it is not worth it, at least, to walk into ideological debates. We all know that this sector in which TTCs move has, taking into account, even the way the company was positioned, huge barriers to entry. It is a natural monopoly, as, in fact, several studies have already shown, and, if so, privatization does not do what you so much defend and like, which is immersion in the real advantages of competition. There are no advantages to competition in a monopoly sector, point! So it's a mistake to privatize a natural monopoly, but that's what you did. That is also why in Europe and around the world there are almost no privatisations in companies of this kind. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u232	The bankruptcy was a mistake! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u233	Therefore, this is the conclusion that you do not want to ensure, do not want to admit, and when you come here you try to defend the indefensible, although, here and there, you always say that you are concerned about the population, the quality and density of TTCs in the country. The third conclusion I wanted to comment on has to do with the issue of the concession contract. On top of this privatization the horse mackerel, whose interest was, and we all know, to guarantee more revenue to pay the debt, what you did was a concession contract with a completely polluted bill of charges, because there were no demands, no commitments, it did not ensure what was essential: we have a post station at least in each municipality. You didn't guarantee anything because you didn't care; you just wanted to make sure that 900 million euros entered the state vaults and nothing else! They never wanted to know about the population, and that is what distinguishes us from the leaders of the PSD and the CDS. A final note, to finish: we have today a perfect conscience—and probably the TTCs are a good example—that it is probably a mistake to make a discussion on good public management or good private management. Maybe we should just discuss good management or bad management...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u234	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u235	I'm done now, Madam President. This is because, today, when we look at the results of the TTCs and observe the management options of the TTCs and the team there, we realize that there have been many errors, either from a strategic point of view or from an operational point of view. That is why the results are what they are and that is why we are not satisfied and that we will, as the Government has said, equalize all aspects that are possible to improve the situation of this company. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u236	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u237	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The functioning of the post office is a fundamental part of any well-structured and organized society. Access, availability, continuity, the quantity of public services to populations and all entities to which they resort is an irreplaceable instrument for the social, economic and territorial cohesion of our country. These requirements are of particular importance when we refer to populations of low-density territories, particularly the most isolated villages. PSD has no ideological problem about whether CTTs are a private or public company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u238	Here, here! You must have privatized him!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u239	Yeah, that's what you see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u240	The PSD requires that TTCs provide high quality service to populations, a service that needs to be provided, and well, regardless of who provides it. [[PSD Applause]] And like any public service, they must be duly audited and monitored. It is in this context that the Government is required to be diligent and not to forget the populations who may be excluded from these services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u241	It was you who privatized!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u242	Having returned almost five years is more than enough time for the Socialist Party to assume its responsibilities and not hide behind privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u244	But there is a question, Minister, essential to which the Government has not answered at the end of this debate: after all, what will the government do at the end of this concession, which ends at the end of this year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u245	That's the question! Even the government doesn't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u246	Mr João Almeida of the CDS Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u247	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate, scheduled by the Left Block, had as its points of discussion the postal service crisis and the question of the reversal of privatization. Little has been said, I think, about the postal service crisis, and that is relevant, because this is not a sector in which reality is stagnant. There is a substantial amendment of what the postal service has been for 20 years here, and therefore, of course, we can discuss when each of the situations happened, what option has each government taken, and that is legitimate. What is not legitimate is to make this discussion abstract because today the postal service has nothing to do with what it was 20 years ago. Therefore, the first question that has to be asked is this: whether public or private, how does a company that has postal service as its main activity work today? from the point of view of the State, there has to be another question, because who is most dependent on postal service today is the State itself. In volume, the largest customer of the postal service, either by AT ( Tax Authority ), either by the courts, is the State itself, but in need are mainly the citizens scattered throughout the country. Therefore, it is necessary to consider not only the question of the volume for the management of the company and the ability to generate results as well as the question of public service, where the dispersion of the counters is the most important criterion. from our point of view, we do not leave here and if everyone wants to talk about consistency in this debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u248	That's just an excuse I don't want to discuss this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u249	... our coherence is this: to discuss the postal service as it is and to discuss the public-private nature of the company that manages the postal service according to the reality of the service, not conditioning the reality of the service to an initial prejudice, from the ideological point of view, of wanting it to be public or private.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u250	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u251	Then, those who want to be public service, insert the postal service into the "fact" that they defined at the beginning as public, and those who defend exclusively the private do the same thing. It happens that Portugal did not choose to privatize CTTs... [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] It was Portugal, and not this or that government. Portugal has not chosen to privatize TTCs on the basis of these criteria, and has made it necessary. Mr. Carlos Silva said a great truth here, but by chance he is not here anymore. [[Isn't he here?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u252	Hello? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u253	It was Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u254	Yes, Mr. Carlos Pereira is not here anymore. When we criticize others for not being, if we can, it may not be worse we will stay 5 minutes after the terms criticized for it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mr. Carlos Pereira said that the privatisation of TTCs was to have a revenue to pay for debt. I ask Mr Carlos Pereira: was it to pay what debt? What would that be? What debt did you have to pay when the CTTs were privatized? When a Government of the Socialist Party entered into the Memorandum that it was necessary to privatize the CTTs, did it to pay what debt? The debt I left. Therefore, it is essential that, when it does its reflection, the Socialist Party understands two things: firstly, it was effectively to pay the debt, and it was not a decision based on ideological criteria; then, debt was generated by a Government of the Socialist Party, the emergency was generated by the Socialist Party and the solution was chosen by the Socialist Party. [[That's right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u255	The debt, the emergency and the solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u256	You're talking about everything but the CTT!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u257	Therefore, whoever generated the debt, who generated the emergency and who generated the solution now says « we respect the people very much; we respect the people when we say that it was necessary to do so and now we respect the people even more when we say that what we said it was necessary to do, after all, was a fool». The gentlemen. Members may even think they respect the people, but at the end of the day it is the people who pay your options. Therefore, it is appropriate to have the responsibility to realize that the best way to respect the people is not to generate debt that creates these emergency situations and not to choose solutions that, four years later, must be said to be wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u258	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u259	I will finish, Madam President. Nor is it worth saying "we are transparent and we are able to assume that we make a mistake", when then we base the mistake on questions of principle. In other words, everything Mr. Carlos Pereira here said about the error of privatization of the CTTs was the reason why the Socialist Party had always defended that they were not privatized.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u260	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u261	It happens that this was not the case and therefore what is at stake is not only the incoherence of the Socialist Party with regard to the past but also with regard to the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more requests for registration, we will move to the stage of the end of the debate. To this end, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u263	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the CTTs. A short time ago, Mr. João Almeida said that the big problem was that we are not talking about postal service and during all his speech I ended up not hearing anything about postal service, because it took more time to talk about public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u264	So I didn't talk? Oh, my God! I spoke of the state as the biggest customer, I spoke of territorial dispersion...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u265	To talk about TTCs we have to assume rationally and consciously that their privatization was a disaster. It was a disaster for future public accounts, because the country and the state lost dividends from a company that was healthy and made profits. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u266	These profits were not delivered to private shareholders, they did not leave the country, harming the balance of payments, they stayed here and financed the state and public services. Privatization of TTCs was a disaster for the company itself, which was bled by its shareholders. See: the company earns less today, which is private, but distributes much more to shareholders. In 2016 and 2017 the company distributed to shareholders up to the profits it did not have. What does that mean? That means private shareholders went to the CTT reserves and shared the loot between themselves. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u267	They looted the company and distributed the sack to each other. And this without talking about the millionaire wages that CTT administrators have self-compensated for the beautiful service they have been doing in the company. In 2018, Francisco Lacerda, who was so well represented here by Mr. Member of the Liberal Initiative, won EUR 925 000. Francisco Lacerda's modest salary was EUR 77 000 per month, EUR 3000 per day. The administrator who led the CTT to ruin, who distributed profits that he did not have to his shareholders, allowing for a looting, and who harmed the public service, earns more than four national minimum wages per day for this beautiful service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u268	But he was appointed by the PSD and the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u269	Mrs. Members, the privatization of TTCs was also a disaster for the country and the population because the service is worse, more irregular and less credible. And we now appear PSD and CDS saying that while it was a public company there were also stations of the CTT that closed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u270	More!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u271	They've closed more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u272	... and that while it was a public company, workers of the TTCs were also dismissed. They say this without remembering that while it was a public company that fired people and closed stations, who was firing people and closing stations was a PSD/CDS government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u273	No, no! She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u274	You guys just cut wages! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u275	What PSD and CDS tell us is that they privatize the CTTs to protect the company from bad governance of the PSD and CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they explain to us, because until today we have not been able to understand why privatisation is taking place. The gentlemen. PSD Members come to tell us the following: « we do not have ideological prejudice, we want the best public service». But did the CTTs provide bad public service?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u276	They used to!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u277	Some of the ladies. Members have come here to say that over the course of these hundreds of years of history, the CTTs have provided bad public service or public service worse than the one they provide today? Oh, my God! [[They used to!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u278	Were you presuming? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, did the TTC provide the Portuguese population with a worse public service than they do today? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Members want to convince anyone that the TTCs were damaging to the public accounts? Why did they privatize the CTTs? Have they privatized CTTs to fill their pockets with stockholders? Oh, my God! Have they privatized TTCs to open another bank in Portugal that would send e-mails to people to offer credit to consumption? Oh, my God! Portugal no longer needs a bank, Portugal needs a universal postal service that serves its population, which is efficient and demanding. Today, this service no longer exists and it is the responsibility of the parties that privatize the CTTs, it is the PSD and the CDS. Mrs. Members, who want to control the strategic sectors of the country — postal services, communications, energy, airports — who want to defend the strategic sectors, which are the guarantor of democracy, sovereignty and national protection when everything goes wrong, do not do so for ideological prejudice. Anyone who wants to maintain natural monopolies in the sphere of the state, because he knows that there is no competition in these sectors and that those who will suffer the consequences are the population, he does not do so for ideological prejudice. Anyone who wants to offer the citizens of this country the best possible public service does not do so because of ideological prejudice. Ideological prejudice is to deliver the Post Offices to J. P. Morgan ; ideological prejudice is to deliver Portugal Telecom into the hands of Ricardo Salgado ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u280	... ideological prejudice is to deliver the Galp Group to Isabel dos Santos; ideological prejudice is to deliver EDP and REN to the Chinese capital; ideological prejudice is to destroy companies that were profitable, which were a guarantor of sovereignty and democracy, only for this very reason: by ideological prejudice. Today, looking at these companies, what we see are companies destroyed by their shareholders, toys in the hands of shareholders who did what they wanted, who lived at the expense of income guaranteed by the state and at the cost of exploiting consumers and the Portuguese people. [[It's true! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u281	This is ideological prejudice and was used against the interests of the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u282	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u283	I will finish, Madam President. We came here PSD and CDS without saying a word of criticism about this process and even saw the Rabbit Steps. After all, it was already Pedro Passos Rabbit's party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u284	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u285	I will finish, Madam President. And we have also seen the lack of courage of certain parties, such as the Liberal Initiative or the Arrival, to demonstrate that their ideological radicalism goes so far because they want to do to health and education the same as PSD and CDS did to CTT. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u286	For the end of the debate, Mr Pedro Nuno Santos, Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u287	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Honestly, in the debate on TTCs, the ideological issue that is being used by all of us to attack each other is a given, and it is a given in this debate as is in everyone. In other words, those who defend nationalization have a certain perspective on society and those who favour privatization have another perspective. Therefore, from this point of view, ideological motivations exist on one side and on the other, and what we need to do is defend those we believe in. There is no kind of opposition here between pragmatism and ideology. Don't! Each of the positions Mr. Members of the European Parliament defend it, of course, has an ideological motivation. That's not a problem, nor is it wrong. In fact, that's how it's supposed to be. At a certain point, I heard from the CDS bench that they had not closed more stations than in a PS government and, in fact, I did not ask our team at the Ministry to do that calculation because it would not be an accounting in which we went very well. The CDS, by the way, does not close post stations, cuts wages or closes other things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u288	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u289	I think this is a very interesting championship.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u290	in this case they close schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u291	Exactly. Regardless of the ideological motivation or the objective of each in relation to the political measure, Mr. João Pinho de Almeida spoke on an important subject that has to do with the following finding: the postal service model has changed deeply and, in the last 10 to 15 years, the volume of postal traffic in Portugal has fallen to half. We cannot ignore this fact, which obviously raises management challenges, whether private or public. If we have a structure built for a certain volume of postal traffic and it no longer has that dimension, we have an outdated structure for needs. This challenge exists either in private management or in public management, i.e. if the company were, or were again from the state, we would be, or we would be, faced with this challenge and this tension, which does not mean that the company needs to reduce the staff framework. What do TTCs have that no other company in Portugal has? A capillary in your network that no one else has and that allows a proximity and a contact that obviously gives the company the possibility to provide a set of other services that are not provided. Only to have an idea of the way that the Posts can make would say that, in Andalusia, Spain, when they faced the same phenomenon, what the Posts of Spain began to do was sell other services. At a certain point, they began selling hunting and fishing licences from the autonomic government and then, at the same time, also began selling private insurance for the possession of weapons. What I mean by this is that the change in the postal service model is not sufficient to explain the reduction of your network or staff, because of course the company has to use the asset it has, that is, the presence on the territory, to provide other types of services. But even if we were not, we all know that electronic commerce still has a weak penetration in Portugal and that it has a very significant growth margin. However, if we carefully evaluate the distribution of the order market, we all agree that the TTCs over the past six years have not been well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u292	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u293	In other words, the private management of TTCs has not been able to take advantage of — we have to say this with the same border with which we say that the state has gone wrong here or there — the growth of electronic commerce in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u294	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u295	Therefore, the gains that some see in the fabulous potential of being the private to manage have not been proved in the past six years in front of the TTCs. They failed, in private management, and not only failed as, obviously, the degradation of the service increased. Today, TTCs have an unprecedented level of complaints in their history, which means that the changes and adjustments that were made during public management were much better understood and accepted by populations than the adjustment that is supposed to be made by private management. It is not by chance that private management tried, in the last year, from September or October 2019, to change the policy, because they realized that a management policy against the population degrades the CTT brand, has serious repute consequences because obviously the relationship that the Portuguese people had with the TTCs was a relationship of trust that is also lost by the decisions that were made, with dividends above profits, indiscriminate closure of stations, degradation of quality, increase of claims. It's not interesting to know who's more left or right if the PS turned or didn't turn! We all belong to different ideological fields, with pride for you and me,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u296	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u297	... but this should not prevent us from looking at what happened and making decisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u298	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u299	I shall conclude, Madam President. I am glad that Mr Afonso Oliveira made this part because he wanted to answer Mrs Isabel Lopes. After all, what will the government do? That's what I was saying during the intervention. You are, once again, unjust. [[PSD laughter.]] I shall say so quickly in 10 seconds, Madam President. We received a few days ago the final report by ANACOM on the public consultation that was made and in which many entities participated: trade unions, DECO (Portuguese Consumer Defense Association), the current service provider. We will now examine all this work and we will prepare our negotiation with the company, whether public or private. So we are going to prepare our negotiations with the company and, in this negotiation, we will want to guard a set of conditions that were not guarded—I do not want to go back and to those who have the blame, but were not — such as presence in the territory, quality levels, fairer relationship with the local authority that provides service and finance services of the TTCs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u300	Mr. Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u301	I am very sorry, Madam President. It is obviously in compliance with the Rules of Procedure, but I have forgotten this : we will examine the report, we will begin the negotiation, we will be careful what is not careful and the debate on entry into the capital will continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-03-12.u302	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. I say goodbye to the gentlemen. Members of the Government and I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who pay attention to the fact that tomorrow's meeting starts at 9 a.m. 30 a.m. and not at 10 a.m. as usual. As the first item on the agenda we have the current debate required by the CDS-PP on the country's response to the coronary virus — COVID 19, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure. of the second point is the joint discussion of draft Law Nos 196 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters (first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April) and 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Change the composition of the National Firefighters Council, regulated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April ). The third item on the agenda provides for the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 115 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of an advisory council of the rural world and 204 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Committee for the Development of the Interior and the Rural World. The fourth point will be discussed together, in general, the Drafts of Law Nos 145 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Determines the restriction of night flights, except for force majeure, and 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other compelling reasons. of the fifth point is the assessment of Petition No 620 / XIII / 4. a (Armando José de Oliveira Teixeira Fernandes et al.) — They request the adoption of measures to defend the Miradouro da Senhora do Monte. of the sixth point is the joint assessment of Petition No 320 / XIII / 2. a ( Luís Amaral et al.) — They request the creation of the professional category of single transport agent, and of Resolution Projects Nos 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the creation of a special career as a single collective transport agent and 254 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a career as a single collective transport agent. Finally, the seventh and final item is the vote at the end of the debate. We are thus at the end of our work. Good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 40 minutes.]]
