ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter our agenda today, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Bills No. 196 / XIV / 1. a — ( BE) — Change the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, enabling the representation of the Portuguese Association of Volunteer Firefighters ( 3 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May 2013, which goes down to 1. the Commission, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reimposes the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases, which falls to 13. the Commission, 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an exceptional regime for the National Health Service under the Law of Commitments and Late Payments ( Act No 8 / 2012 of 21 February 2012 ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 199 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) - 6. the Amendment to Decree-Law No 96 / 89 of 28 March establishing the International Register of Madeira ( MAR ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recomposes the possibility of accumulation of benefits due to permanent disability with the proportion of remuneration corresponding to the percentage of permanent reduction of the worker's overall gain capacity, which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first item on the agenda is the presentation of an initiative by Mr Ventura, from the Czech Republic, with a view to setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry and that the honourable Member is not yet in the Chamber, we are making a small welcome. [[Pause.]] Now, yes, we can start our agenda today. Mr Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is today requested to this House is that it agrees to launch a major investigation into what should have happened and never happened in the distribution of money in one of the greatest tragedies our country has experienced in recent years: the tragedy of Pedragon Grande. The documents that come to us are particularly disturbing because they show money that has been given, but that has never entered, as it should, into the accounts created to receive donations. in the moments when each party agrees to listen to and talk to people is aware of disturbing reports and testimonies of people who have made the effort of their lives to help a country of mourning and who, nevertheless, have seen this effort vilipendiated by money diverted and never reached the destination. We already knew that this country, in terms of corruption, could have never seen indexes. We've heard about safes in the house of mothers or parents. We all knew about this, but we did not know that it was possible, in the greatest tragedies of our history, there was also corruption and deviations of money. My dear Members, colleagues and friends, this is not a political issue, this is a matter of national design. We had a criminal trial that focused on these themes of Pedrogão Grande, but the Portuguese want to know more, because we continue to have complaints of numerous cases of donations that did not reach the accounts they should have reached. Many other times, this House has launched fact-finding committees on cases which it understood were not and I quote: « clarified, clarified, totally clear, totally unequivocal». Question : There is someone in this House who thinks that the Pedrogão Grande case is totally unequivocal...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u5	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u6	... and that the donations that have been given and assigned are totally unequivocal or that there is nothing to investigate; that there is nothing to know more; that we can close our eyes?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u7	Mr. Deputy, I wanted to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. What can we forget about these people? What can we forget about one of the greatest tragedies in our history? Today, this House has the possibility of setting up a new committee of inquiry on what has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u9	Sir, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u10	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: do not tell me, please, that we do not have time, because if it has been useful for a long time, it is what is spent investigating what is effectively important for the life and history of Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u11	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the debate period of this proposal. The first inscription is from the NAP, so you have the floor from now on to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary committees of inquiry are precisely responsible for monitoring compliance with the Constitution and the laws and for assessing the acts of the Government and of the Administration. These committees may and should decide on any matter which may be of public relevance as the one in question for the exercise of the tasks of the Assembly of the Republic. Today, following a petition that we cannot forget that has already been discussed in plenary, we are called upon to pronounce ourselves on the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to ascertain the existence of crimes in the allocation of subsidies for the reconstruction of dwellings in Pedrogão Grande. The cases which Parliament intends to investigate are serious. Support is concerned with money from public funds and donations affected by the REVITA Fund or managed by other entities, such as IPSS (particular institution of social solidarity), which should have been affected by the reconstruction or rehabilitation of houses of first residence and which were eventually used in practice in houses that were, or were not of first residence, or which were even more serious, not even burned. Moreover, these support was also criticised by the Court of Auditors that it considered that the REVITA Fund did not guarantee or that the support granted was only for the beneficiaries or that the situations did not meet the aid criteria or the existence of a control over the compliance of the costs with the reference standards. The Court of Auditors also considered that there was a lack of coordination, planning and the definition of clear implementing rules and also pointed out, as problems, the inadequacy of ethical risk control and management systems and the lack of transparency of the programme, since there was not even public disclosure of decisions with external effectiveness, the list of beneficiaries and support granted and the accounts provided. Ladies and gentlemen. Members were in charge of donations in the order of EUR 4 million and EUR 2, EUR 5 million of public money given by the government. This situation is so serious that the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation itself has already been judicially demanding the return of the money it gave for the reconstruction of burned houses. This discussion today is very important because what is at stake is not only the trust of citizens in the state, it is also the need to ensure that citizens do not give up their neighbour when they are called and called to be solidarity and we continue to live in a society that shares their responsibilities and who feels sorry when that is necessary. Of course, justice must make its way. To justice what is justice and politics what is politics, we do not question that. However, Parliament cannot take into account that the use of donations in Pedrogan has been successful and that nothing can be done. It is necessary for Parliament to evaluate what went wrong in the use of these money, to verify who are responsible for such failures, not to replace ourselves with justice, but to take measures to ensure that if they happen in the future, we hope that they will not! — similar disasters, these situations will not be repeated and citizens may feel that their donations will be effectively channeled to those who need them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u13	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. That is why the NAP, in view of the seriousness of the facts we have mentioned here and which are at stake, considers the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry justified. But if we do not understand this House in this way, we argue that there is good sense and that it is at least a working group that makes this cross-sectional assessment that we refer to and that it is so necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic today is discussing whether an investigation should be conducted with the aim of ascertaining the existence of crimes in the allocation of subsidies for the reconstruction of dwellings in Pedrogão Grande, following the tragedy that the country has fought in 2017. The first proposal for a parliamentary inquiry in this Parliament has generated perplexity. The way it is formulated is ambiguous and imprecise, which helps confusion. [[Laughing from Mr. Arrega André Ventura.]] I therefore ask: Is Parliament intended to find out whether there have been crimes in the allocation of subsidies in the case indicated? It is public and notorious that there has been, but it is also public and notorious that they have been investigated. They were investigated by the Judiciary Police 20 mock-up crimes, 20 prevarication crimes of political office holder, 20 documents forgery crimes, a crime of computer falsity and a crime of false statements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u17	And wasn't Comrade investigated, too?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u18	In fact, it is enough to consult the press clippings — and I invite you to do so — on the Members' Portal to remember what happened: in June 2019 the Coimbra Public Ministry dropped the charge against 28 of the 44 defendants. in the office was also determined the archiving or separation of processes of the remaining 16 defendants. Therefore, there is no need to do business and meetings to make sure what anyone can know. So it can't be this, what can it be? Does the proposal aim to find out whether the investigation of the judicial police was successful? in this case, it would be a terrible idea and a terrible service. If the objective is to inquire whether the Public Prosecutor has exercised his powers well and the Judicial Police has acted badly, it is not a good idea either. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u19	So what's the point?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u20	No one therefore counts with the PS for obscure operations of institutional confrontation between criminal police and judges or between Parliament and the justice system at the time when there are ongoing proceedings, all in accordance with the law. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine for a moment that the Assembly of the Republic took the decision to open an inquiry. under the law of parliamentary investigations, the Attorney-General of the Republic would have to inform the Assembly of the Republic if, on the basis of the same facts, any proceedings are under way and at what stage. It would be a procedure, in this particular case, totally redundant, because we know suddenly that there is a process and at what stage it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u21	What does that have to do with it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u22	Since, as there is, the criminal proceedings under way, the law determines that it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to decide on the suspension of the parliamentary investigation process until the transit in court of the relevant court judgment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is what requires the constitutional principle of the separation of powers and thus we would return to the point where we are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u23	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u24	I shall now finish, Mr President, by asking the following question: and what would the citizens think of this? They would probably ask why we spend time and money doing these scenes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u25	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u26	Our answer is clear: we will vote against this initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u28	Mr President, after hearing these interventions, I cannot fail to mention that in 2017 there was a tragedy, in which 66 people died and hundreds of homes and businesses were destroyed, throughout the central area and not only in Pedrogão. The PSD, which always has a responsible attitude in these matters not to do political chicana, as it was afraid of the power of then, which is still the current one, has at the time requested the establishment of an independent technical committee to ascertain the causes and consequences of the tragedy of the fires that devastated the central zone. This work was done and was a serious and technical work. however, this does not prevent the State from failing. He failed with the Portuguese, failed with solidarity, failed in the media, finally failed in everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u29	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u30	This is the conclusion of the Independent Technical Observatory and it is also, unfortunately, that we have to remove. And with this we are not trying to meddle in the work of the courts — to justice what is justice and politics what is politics! But neither can we, under the cover of justice, pass over a sponge and erase everything that went wrong. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot went wrong. We have left the Portuguese poorly, who have gathered in a force of never-to-be-see solidarity. The REVITA fund was created. The institutions participated and the European Union set up the European Union Solidarity Fund for this tragedy. And, in the face of all this, when everyone said present and no one failed, who fails? The state! [[PSD applause.]] The State fails to apply, in the dark, in unwashed processes. in this, it fails. [[PSD applause.]] And we can't use any argument that leads to this as much as you like. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to answer before the Portuguese, before those who have elected us, who demand our responsibility and we have to show that we are up to those responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u32	We will be up to those responsibilities by finding out everything there is to find out—and that is all! It is that for the PSD, the proposal from arrive, allow me redundancy, is not enough. It's very little. We cannot limit ourselves to crimes, to the investigation of criminal attitudes. Yes, we must go further and deeper in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u34	We have to figure out the causes and the consequences: what led us to that? Why? This, so that such a thing doesn't repeat itself. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, because it is enough to pass a sieve on matters, it is enough to pretend that there is no problem! For this reason, the PSD, voting in favour of the proposal from the Czech Republic, will present a proposal for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of a power inquiry to find out the causes and consequences of the tragedies in the central area tomorrow. The whole truth will have to be found out! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u35	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2017 fires consumed more than half a million hectares, with two mega-fire waves, which destroyed forests, agricultural crops, industries and housing, first in June, then in October. Several measures have been taken to support the recovery of infrastructure and housing, although insufficient. of its application, resulted in a judicial process that should be dealt with in justice, following the most appropriate procedures for effective clearance and implementation of consequent measures. It should not be instrumentalized for party propaganda. The most wooded territories continue today with a destroyed landscape and huge traces of abandonment. The most urgent, for those who live in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Alvaiázere or Figueiró dos Vinhos, as well as in other municipalities affected, are the missing public policies to support the reconstruction of the territory and the lives of those who are there. in this sense, the Left Block proposed several measures to support residents and forest owners to recover the territory, such as the free allocation of native plants to reforest areas or the creation of test fields to support sustainable reforestation and protect populations. We can only regret that it has joined the Socialist Party and the CDS in order to bring these proposals into line with the State budget. [[CH protests.]] on the matter of protecting people's lives, no proposals have come from arrive. Its priority is even game and party propaganda. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u37	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today is the importance of Parliament to engage in the discovery of the truth on an essential issue for our country. The tragedy that took place in Pedrogão stirred the whole country and motivated a wave of solidarity that obviously cannot be ignored. It was a wave of solidarity, of course, through public institutions and money, which come from the taxes of all Portuguese—and which, therefore, all Portuguese have the right to know how they are applied—and also from many individuals and from many institutions, who have associated themselves with this solidarity movement and who have contributed to the repair and reconstruction of the damage caused by the Pedrogon tragedy. What we must now decide is whether we think that, in the face of all the evidence and suspicions that exist, Parliament must be on the side of the discovery of the truth or the side of indifference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u40	Parliament must decide whether it should be on the side of the discovery of the truth, in order to ascertain whether the State was a good person or not, in this matter, it was established in an immediate manner what situations should be supported, whether the money that was applied to each of these situations was managed competently, and whether the public institutions which carried out this task did so with due competence. On the other hand, it is also up to Parliament to know whether the money channelled from individual donations or donations from institutions of social solidarity and which is also up to the State to manage — it is good to remember that it is also up to the State to manage the application of such donations — whether the State has done or has not done a serious and competent job in this management. If not, two situations are in crisis that cannot, in any way, be in crisis in a democracy. On the one hand, we have the problem of the state being a good person and that is something for which Parliament cannot resign itself from fighting, so that, in the eyes of every citizen, there is certainty that the State is a good person. On the other hand, Parliament cannot comply with the frustration of a huge manifestation of solidarity among all Portuguese in such a tragedy. If we do not do so, what will happen — and hope that it will not happen — is that, when there is another tragedy, there will not be the same wave of solidarity, and not because people do not feel this solidarity, but because they do not trust the State to manage this solidarity that they once again want to transmit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u42	Therefore, on the part of the CDS, there is no political-party game or formal justification which questions what is essential: the clearance of truth, the dignity of the State and the coverage of a solidarity that is very honored by the country, that of each Portuguese has come out and that of course must have the responsibility of fighting in the Portuguese Parliament to ensure that this solidarity is consistent and transparent. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u43	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What happened two and a half years ago in Pedrogão Grande is too serious. Failures were too great for us to decline any opportunity to realize what has happened and who has failed, whether they are entities of the local state, the central state, public or private institutions or the social sector or even individual citizens. We have to take care of responsibilities. I would say, more importantly, that there is an effective accountability of those who have pre-empted and who, with these acts, abused the generosity of many and undermined the trust of all. We believe that this House has competence and responsibilities, regardless of the legal proceedings under way. And the Liberal Initiative considers that only a society in which everyone assumes its responsibilities will benefit from the fact that everyone enjoys their freedoms. We shall therefore vote in favour of the setting up of this parliamentary committee of inquiry. [[Congrats from the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u45	The next intervention is Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragedies of the 2017 fires have been the subject of discussion in this House not only in relation to the investigation of the circumstances in which that situation has been responded dramatically to a large part of the national territory and thousands of citizens. It was also discussed in this House the answer to give in terms of support so that people who were affected by that tragedy could at least have minimum conditions to restore their lives and to repair the damage caused to them by the fires that occurred, which destroyed not only dwellings but also a large part of the economic activity that survived those populations in the interior of the country. from the PCP side, we continue to underline what, for us, is the greatest expression of this drama. It is that a large part of the rural areas that were hit by those fires in 2017 have become ghost villages, not only because the housing conditions of those living there have not been restored but also because the economic activity that survived those regions has not been recovered and is today in a situation of greater definition than before those fires. That is truly the drama that we cannot ignore and to which we must answer. But that answer, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not an inflamed proposal to set up committees of inquiry, nor is it an inflamed proclamation of concern about the problems that are at the root of this reality. Yes, there are proposals and concrete measures to respond to the problems of family agriculture and public services, to the recovery of housing being permanent, or to the second housing. The fact that many Portuguese have in those second-country housing areas, which they addressed during weekends or holidays, was also an element of economic dynamisation in those regions. And the fact that the Government has never complied with the resolution adopted in the Assembly of the Republic so that support for the second housing should also be considered is one of the issues we continue to raise and which we have faced with over time. This resolution by the Assembly of the Republic must be complied with so that these concerns can be resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u48	When, at a certain point, the government responded to the CFP, saying that of the 1272 requests for support for the reconstruction of the dwellings, 420 of them had no framework, we wanted to know why and to intervene so that those rules were changed and that all the dwellings would have support for their reconstruction, if they had been hit by fires. In some circumstances, these were permanent dwellings and, in such cases, there was much less justification for the support being granted. We drew attention, including to 16 situations that were reported to the CFP Parliamentary Group, of people who were living in a precarious situation because they could not see their rebuilt, partial or total housing. There was also a government response that denounced all the fragility of the government's response to these fire-related difficulties. There were 16 million euros of support that had been requested by people who had had their homes hit and had not been allocated by the government. These are the answers that are missing and which have to go through the granting of support that has not been granted, the granting of funds that have not been considered by the Government in support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u49	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. These support, Mr Ventura, cannot be reached with the proposal for a committee of inquiry, which, above all, proposes to the Assembly of the Republic, is that the House should address the investigation carried out by the Judicial Police, the prosecutions of the Public Prosecutor's Office or the judicial decisions to be taken. Mr. André Ventura, they are not committees of inquiry that solve these problems; they are concrete measures such as those we have brought here that can solve these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u51	We thus concluded the first point in our agenda, which consisted of the assessment of Parliamentary Survey No 1 / XIV / 1. a ( CH). We now move on to the discussion of Petition No 437 / XIII / 3. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — Requests the creation of a national animal experiment council, together with the Bill No. 189 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 of 7 August, strengthening the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research, in general, and with Resolution Projects No 78 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Valuation of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals used for scientific purposes, 208 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthen the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research and 87 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the adoption of concrete and immediate measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research. To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The first steps in the European Union ( EU ) on the use of animals for scientific purposes date back to 1986. Subsequently, the 2010 European Directive, which was transposed in Portugal in 2013, reinforced the need for regulation, transparency and sharing of good practices in this area in order to ensure the improvement of the well-being of animals that are still used for scientific purposes by replacing it with alternative methods, reducing the number of animals used and using less invasive methods. The aim of the European guidance is to give priority to the replacement of animals, however there are no conditions for proper supervision in Portugal, neither the replacement nor the reduction nor the use of less invasive methods are guaranteed. Portugal is still a long way from where it could be. It is estimated that in Portugal the number of animals used is much higher than in the reports, since, despite the estimate provided for in the non-technical summaries of projects, there is no final verification of the actual number of animals used and we know, by the voice of researchers, that the final number is at least double. Despite important legislative developments, however, the practice has not followed these requirements and recommendations. It should be recalled that in 2018 the European Commission instituted proceedings in six countries, one of which Portugal, for failure to comply with the directive on national territory, in particular because supervision is not guaranteed nor the obligation to reduce the high levels of pain to which these animals are subject. In addition, many research projects have started without the mandatory assessment and opinion of the ORBEA ( Animal Welfare Observatory ) and DGAV ( Food and Veterinary Directorate ), being in legal breach. DGAV confirms the lack of resources and the inability to respond to all requests for opinion. While the EU shows great concern at the investment, development and sharing of alternative research methods to those using animals for scientific purposes, in Portugal we continue to see a proliferation of animal-based investigations, without a minimum commitment to research and implementation of alternative models. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing two NAP projects today. We are presenting a draft resolution which, welcoming the concerns of the European Union, aims to recommend to the Government, inter alia, the creation of incentives for research with alternative methods, the guarantee that at least 20 % of researchers and human and physical resources at universities are exclusively concerned with research into non-animal models, the strengthening of supervision to ensure compliance with the animal welfare requirements law and the creation of an independent structure with the competences of a three-R centre.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u53	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u54	I will finish, Mr. President. And finally, we present a bill, ladies and gentlemen. Members, where they have the opportunity to ensure that there is no use of animal life for research in a useless way, since we all know that, unfortunately, the use of animals in an unnecessary way continues to exist. Make yourself here in history! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u55	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by valuing the mobilization of more than 4400 petitioners — and to do so on behalf of the first subscriber and Mr André Silva — who today allows us to discuss and present proposals for greater rigour in the application of Community legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u57	After all, this is a PAN petition!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u58	The Portuguese Government has already been involved in a process by the European Commission for the failure to implement the 2013 Directive, which regulates the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. We also know that the use of this animal in experiments has increased exponentially. In 2017 it amounted to more than 50 000 animals, more than twice as many as 20 000 animals used in 2015. These facts led to a legislative amendment in 2019 and to the Commission's institution for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes, in 2018. These advances are important, but there is one problem: they have to be effective and taken seriously and this has not happened. There are no substantial changes in the implementation of the three Rs, nor in the necessary investment in monitoring and articulation of the entities involved in this area. Furthermore, the Commission — which should ensure best practice — maintains sporadic and opaque practices, without providing the information it has received and which is of great relevance in this matter. But if the Commission should take seriously the responsibilities that have been defined by law and would bear, the proposals we make here cannot go any further. They must work in this same sense of rigor and credibility in the implementation of best practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u59	Do you want more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u60	And in this sense, we propose that the Government value the existing mechanisms and make them function, through their composition, of the transparency of their activities and in order to stimulate the necessary debate on alternative methods of experimentation. In addition, it is widely known in the scientific community that it is necessary for DGAV to be able to do the work entrusted to it. But it is also because this debate is essential, in scientific research and animal welfare, that we cannot follow the lack of rigor, context and effectiveness of the projects presented here by the NAP. The proposal to captivate one fifth of the research money exclusively for alternative methods or the captivating of the corresponding 10 % of the State budget — we are talking about around EUR 10 billion, i.e. the equivalent of the health budget alone — cannot correspond to a proposal that is strictly necessary for scientific experimentation without the use of animals and the indispensable change to scientific research methods. It is, in our view, disappointing and, even more serious, a penalty for all the proposals that have ever been put forward and an argument offered by a tray to which it is against the necessary advances in animal welfare. on our part, we will not be in agreement with these proposals. And, in view of the seriousness of the matter, the proposal of the Left Block calls for the effective implementation of the legislation by the Government, which must do so and effectively. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u61	Mr Alma Rivera, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I greet the petitioners. It is consensual, and it is legislated, the objective of reducing the use of animals in scientific experimentation. It is recognized that animals exhibit behaviors similar to that of humans when subjected to situations of pain or stress. And it was also concluded that experimentation in animals is often not even appropriate due to the anatomical and physiological differences between animals and humans. In fact, it is estimated that only 8 % of the medicinal products that produce positive results in animals are then considered safe and suitable for human testing. There are already alternative methods of experimentation and the scientific community adopts the policies of the three Rs, i.e. — and in Portuguese — replacing alternative methods with animals, reducing the number of animals used to obtain representative information and refinement, in order to reduce suffering, using less invasive techniques and better veterinary care, for example. In Portugal, legislation was adopted precisely in this sense and in order to follow the alternative possibilities that the technique opened, defining that no animal should be used in experiments, where there is an alternative available and validated. The National Commission for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes has also been established, and the ORBEA, which are the bodies responsible for the welfare of animals, has been operating at each research centre. As in 2010, the CFP again presented initiatives on the issue in 2017. It was proposed to prevent the channelling of financial resources of public origin to private bioterios projects and that, on the contrary, these funds were intended for the creation of three R research centres and if it was made the way to the implementation of a three R research centre, of a national nature, among other measures, some of them then received. In fact, technological development is essential in the path to the total replacement of animals in science, which depends on another indispensable factor which is investment in science. It is in this spirit that today, following the petition, we urge the Government to promote the raising of the needs of material and human resources at DGAV so that it can develop work on the protection of animals used in science. We propose the channelling of funds for a research programme aimed at alternatives to the use of animals in scientific research and, with regard to the ORBEA, we believe that a report on the degree of installation of them and the planning of their creation should be made available, together with the information of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes and the DGAV itself on the approved and funded protocols. Finally, and in order to implement the three Rs as quickly as possible, we call on the Government to submit a more comprehensive report on the implementation of the recommendations, legislation and intervention plan established by the ministry in the Assembly of the Republic. If it is true that much remains to be done and much to be done and taking into account the course that will be needed to reduce the use of animals in scientific research, particularly in the development of alternatives, it is also true that this draft resolution of the CFP, being approved, may mean a de facto advance in this matter, without jeopardising the safety of methods or the work of the teams of scientists. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u63	I would like to ask the Members and the Members. Members who are here in the Chamber at parliamentary meetings, certainly very effective, to keep these meetings to another place, out of respect for whom you are speaking. We will continue this session. Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, in the context of the assessment of this petition, we are before a set of projects presented by some parties. From now on, I would like to greet the petitioners who, in proof of participatory democracy, bring to Parliament the need for the creation of a national animal testing council, operating under this House. However, the PSD is always in favour of more financial resources for research that benefits people's daily lives, but does not have the courage to change technical criteria, increase bureaucracy, or raise to uncomportable levels of public spending money for alternative research models or do not use animals for scientific research purposes. In other words, we must not lose the North on this issue; we must not humanize animals and dehumanize people. [[PSD applause.]] This is the essential point. We need to know what we're talking about. And why? Because we all agree, but I think the NAP is not in the real country. We all agree if we say that we are in Portugal — and unfortunately, we are deepening situations — which are depopulated and without investment in their national production. We have a Portugal where we invest in education, where there are missing employees, there are lack of teachers and where we have closed schools. We have a Portugal with unemployment and where they close emergency pediatric services and lack family doctors for at least 600 000 Portuguese. This is the real situation. There are other priorities, so we must not put animals before people and people after animals. We don't want that and, I think, no one responsible in this house wants this. It is obviously necessary not to lose the North as well as with regard to the dignity and the need for animal welfare, but it must first be recognized that there are many gaps and weaknesses that have been accentuated by this government. This is also a situation that we need to resolve in this country, to make the PS government disappear, because obviously with the PS to govern we are deepening our weaknesses. With the weak financial resources that we have, in the State budget, but which, in practice, does not exist, because what is announced at the outset is not what is implemented, since, by the way, there are the captives, if we are still using at least 10 % of the money for research, what is left for the Portuguese? What's left for people? It is only for animals and therefore we cannot agree with this policy of the NAP, which aims to put animals first and people second. On the contrary, what we stand for — and it has already been approved in the past legislature — is the creation of the scientific committee in the field of agri-food.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u65	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u66	Therefore, it seems feasible for us to establish a committee consisting of representatives of the orders of professionals, scientific academies and institutes for research and scientific research in agri-foods, in which the entire production chain and also animals are included. thus, yes, we will obviously become viable, make credible and make reliable a model that includes all and that does not value only animals and forgets people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u67	The next intervention lies with Mrs Carla Sousa of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will try to refocus the debate and start by complimenting the petitioners who promote today's discussion on the protection of animals used in scientific research. We would like to begin this debate by contextualizing it: Portugal has the most advanced legislation in the world of animal protection and the scrutiny in the use of an animal for scientific purposes is a complex and durable process. This is not beyond the transposition of the European Directive into Portuguese legislation in an almost comprehensive manner in 2013. The creation of the ORBEA ( Organs Responsible for the Welfare of Animals ) or the ethical principles underpinning the policy of the 3R — reducing and replacing the use of animals whenever possible, refining procedures to reduce their pain and suffering — are principles that guide scientific research in Portugal. It is in this context that the projects presented by the Block, the PCP and the PAN arise. More human and financial resources are recommended for DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ), more transparency in the activity, review of the composition of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals used for Scientific Purposes, more information about ORBEA and the application of the ethical principles of the 3 R in Portugal. We agree with the general principles of greater transparency, but we cannot fail to endorse some of the proposals. The National Commission for the Protection of Animals used for Scientific Purposes is a scientific and technically specialized body, which already includes a representative of a specialized animal association: the Portuguese Society of Sciences in Laboratory Animals. We have difficulty understanding the relevance of including another association of animal protection. The National Commission for the Protection of Animals used for Scientific Purposes, created in 2018, provides for the dissemination of relevant documents on its website in its rules of procedure. It is only a matter of time for him to decouple the implementation of this measure. As for the complaint channel, it already exists, since 2018, with the creation of a functional e-mail on the Internet page that serves precisely to denounce bad practices and abuses. The Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs has been strengthening its human resources frameworks and that is what has made it possible to speed up the procedures for the authorisation of people, projects and establishments. DGAV already provides scientific projects that are authorised, publishing non-technical summaries on its page. What can be done is to safeguard information on condition, including all that falls under existing legislation, such as the General Data Protection Regulation. As regards the need for the creation of a research programme that presents alternatives to animal use, the FCT (Science and Technology Foundation) promotes the plurality of scientific research, does not discriminate. Mrs. Members, the scientific community and the government are committed to validating methods for replacing animal use. The evidence is the active role we have in the European network OPERE ( Preliminary Assessment of Regulatory Relevance ) and the participation of Portugal, with laboratory representation, in the European network of validation of alternative approaches. Unfortunately, we still need to use live animals for scientific development. Animal use research has saved lives and is an essential component in biomedical research, a critical act in efforts to prevent, cure and treat numerous diseases.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u69	Mrs. Deputy, you're gonna have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u70	Having said this, it is important to stress which side is the Socialist Party: committed to defending the ethical principles that govern the scientific research that is being done today and committed to seeking alternative solutions that we hope will become the rule of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u71	The next intervention is Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are today, in fact, in a quite specific context, in which most scientists and the scientific community recognize that the use of animals for scientific purposes, or others, is far above what should be. Having said that — and we must understand the sign of the times — we must make every effort to prevent animals from being used, often, and in the delimitation of what is necessary, for an effort against cruelty, in the use of animals for medical or scientific purposes. We therefore do not, in principle, oppose the creation of a council aimed at examining and even giving an opinion on situations where animal cruelty can be avoided. in this sense, we also greet all petitioners who brought this important issue to this House. Finally, I wanted to make this very clear: in spite of this being a necessary and fundamental step, we must not forget that we are talking about a budget in which 10 % would be completely unrealistic, without health, without justice, without money for the most basic that our society needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u73	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u74	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot therefore limit a situation like this. Still, the arrival will enable the effort proposed here to create all instances that limit and reduce animal cruelty in these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u75	The next intervention is the Greens Ecological Party, through Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words, on behalf of the Green Green Ecological Party, are to greet the citizens who have given body to the petition that we are now discussing and that has as a central concern animal experimentation. In anticipation, I would like to say that the concerns brought by the petitioners end up in meeting what The Greens have long advocated and that, in the legislative context, it was materialized, for example, through the legislative initiative that we presented in the previous legislature, which was discussed and voted on in 2017. I refer to the Resolution Project No 612 / XIII / 2. a (PV) — by the progressive reduction and elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes, a legislative initiative that deserved the approval of this House in two of its four points and which highlights the promotion of investment for the development of alternatives to the use of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes. If it is true that animal experimentation has been a traditional method of biomedical research, it is also true that it becomes more and more clear that the return of this investment has gradually decreased. At the same time, science has been providing us with an increasing number of alternatives to animal experimentation, which are far superior to animal models. For example, a study conducted by the toxicology division of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences of a Swedish university, which compares the efficiency of 68 methods to study toxicity, concluding that animal models have far less reliable results than in vitro models. On the other hand, only during 2009, the European Union made available a fund of EUR 50 million for European research teams to develop alternative methods for animal experimentation related to cosmetics and industry in the area, thus allowing the end of animal experimentation in Europe, in the cosmetic industry. Moreover, the evolution of techniques has been, although at differentiated rates, accompanied by legislation to find alternatives to animal experimentation for scientific and commercial purposes. However, in the light of the Greens' understanding of existing legislation, and as long as it is not possible, because it is not so for now — the total replacement of animals in procedures, which, in our view, is essential, is a serious strengthening and deepening of continuing and credited training in institutions where animals are created, maintained and used for scientific purposes and all those involved in animal testing processes, providing them with the skills and means necessary to implement the best practices of animal welfare, as well as the strictest experimental methodologies. This, in our view, is necessary, because everything else is, in fact, unscientific experiences. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u77	The last intervention the Bureau has recorded is that of Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS-PP. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would, of course, like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and by saying that what is held from this same debate is, in a clear way, the difference between moderation and exaggeration. I think that it is common for all sides to defend, protect and care that must exist with animal welfare, but for the CDS, of course, people are first. There are national legislation and Community legislation that already enables animals to be protected from the use for experimental purposes, for scientific purposes, for medicinal purposes. Therefore, this legislation already exists and the problem arises is that of its application. in this Chamber, let it be absolutely clear that the CDS will not impermiss any kind of initiative that promotes animal welfare, provided it allows to safeguard the well-being of people. It is good not to forget that the use of these animals, for example, for scientific research purposes, has brought enormous advances to human health domains, that is, they save many and many lives. Therefore, the CDS, in this debate, is against some of the projects that were brought here, which are absolutely fanatical. For example, it is appropriate to ask the NAP if 10 % of State Budget is no longer useful for areas such as health or education. The CDS, in this same debate, also has some concerns, which we share, as the fact that it has been said recently, that in the case of DGAV, which has to deliver opinions on research projects, often does not issue them, and these opinions are mandatory. When we examine the reasons given by DGAV, then there must be the effort of this Parliament to pressure the Government to be able to provide resources and resources to DGAV, precisely to safeguard these same animals. So I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that some of these projects talk a lot about animals and talk very little about people. For the CDS, people are first, although respecting, as is evident, animals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u79	Also for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the time given by the IL for clarifying the following: I think it is clear — it is just not for those who did not want to understand — that the 10 % that the NAP refers to relates to the research budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u81	It's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u82	The percentage of 10 % of the research money...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u83	That's written!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u84	Leia! Leia!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u85	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, what is disappointing is the Left Block not to consider that a single word should be allocated for research, betting on alternative models, such as delirious to continue using animals when alternative models can be used and not reduce suffering when you can opt for other methods. [[BE's protests.]] I would also like to say that investment in people is not at stake. Not at all! We are talking only about an amount allocated to research, in which, following European recommendations, we believe that a specific amount should be allocated...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u86	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u87	... to invest in alternative models to replace or reduce the use of animals in scientific research. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u88	We then enter point three of our order of business, which includes the assessment of Petition No 610 / XIII / 4. a ( Ana Celeste Maia Pires Gloria et al.) — They call on the Assembly of the Republic to take measures to save the House of Fisheries, classified heritage, located in the Quinta de Recreio dos Marqueses de Pombal, in Oeiras, and to ensure the preservation, dissemination and openness of this heritage package to the public, together with the Draft Resolution No 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — by safeguarding the heritage and rehabilitation of the House of Fisheries in Oeiras ( Lisbon ). You have the floor to present the CFP initiative, Mr Duarte Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the initiative of the petitioners, citizens who have mobilized around the defense of the Fisheries House, cultural heritage of the country and an integral part of the identity of the town of Oeiras and of the entire municipality. The situation at which the House of Fisheries has arrived is, in fact, worrying. Decades of abandonment and acts of vandalism have decimated the heritage. Part of it is already in a state of irrecoverability, including a valuable heritage of tiles, from which it is important to recover what remains. The House of Fisheries is a reflection of the heritage policy of successive governments, in which the lack of investment, the lack of articulation and the lack of a heritage policy have led to a pre-ruin situation, which will now require a much higher investment than what would have been necessary in order not to have it reached this point. However, last October, a protocol was established with the City Council of Oeiras which created expectations that this situation would finally be resolved. The draft resolution presented by the CFP aims to ensure that under this protocol the central State does not take responsibility for its role in ensuring that the House of Fisheries is recovered. We also draw attention to the need to ensure the public enjoyment of this set, until we have previous experiences that have proved negative, also in Oeiras, such as the case of the Fifth Royal of Caxias, which, under a protocol between the Central State and the House of Oeiras, was integrated into the Revive Programme. In the case of the Fishing House, this must not happen. This is a heritage of all, which must be visible and have public enjoyment, so the PCP will continue to do everything, both locally and in the Assembly of the Republic, for the recovery and public enjoyment of the Fisheries House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u90	The next intervention is by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It began to greet the petitioners, some of whom are present in this House, noting that the NAP is accompanying their concerns and, in this sense, will also follow the proposal of the CFP that is brought to discussion today. Just because we are talking about a historic heritage, a heritage classified as a national monument, it is not understandable that it has been degraded for about 40 years, without any intervention at the local level, by the authority, either at the protocol level, with the participation of the central administration. Nor does it make any sense that this heritage does not return to public enjoyment. In fact, this is not the treatment that must deserve national heritage. We have had this debate several times in this House, at the level of discussion of culture, raising the different needs and the state in which the public heritage itself is to be defended. Therefore, the petitioners' claim could not be more legitimate and, therefore, we will follow the proposed initiative, as well as this issue, to be sure that we will not be discussing this issue again in this House or at local level. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u92	Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias, from the Left Block, followed by the intervention of Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the 4077 petitioners, being the first petitioner Ana Celeste Maia Pires Gloria, who have mobilized themselves on a citizen initiative calling on the Assembly of the Republic to adopt measures to save the House of Fisheries, classified heritage located in the Quinta de Recreio dos Marqueses de Pombal, in Oeiras, and to ensure the preservation, disclosure and openness to the public of this property set. The Fishing House, located at the National Agronomic Station in Oeiras, is abandoned, degraded and at risk of ruin. The autarchy published in May 2019 a statement saying that the monument has come to be the target of looting and vandalism and that ornamental pieces of great historical and cultural value have disappeared. This monument was ordered to build by the Marquis de Pombal after the earthquake of 1755 and was classified as a national monument in 1940. Despite the mobilization of civil society, researchers, architects and historians, the agreement between the State and the House of Oeiras on the recovery of the Fishing House took decades to come. Negotiations are already old. Some of them started in 2007, when the Ministry of Agriculture and the municipality of Oeiras agreed to hold a protocol for the passage of property to the municipal chamber. The delays and delays in this process and the accelerated degradation and ruin of the monument mobilized citizens and citizens in their defense. Thus, in a remarkable act of citizenship, they signed petitions under which they stressed that the historical and artistic interest of this place should be overcome by any bureaucratic obstacle, considering it unacceptable for the Ministry of Agriculture to continue, at the time, to postpone the indispensable works and that the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage should continue without imposing the obligations inherent in the safeguard of a well classified. The Left Block accompanied these initiatives with a draft resolution in 2012. however, once again, the agreement was not implemented. After almost 10 years, the impasse has been overcome, so we welcome the protocol signed by the House of Oeiras and the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance, in which the State assumes its responsibility for defending and safeguarding cultural heritage. This agreement will enable the municipality to carry out the preventive conservation works, which should be carried out with an urgent nature due to the need for unsuitable intervention, in order to contain and delay the degradation caused by the abandonment situation over these decades of impasse. After the conservation and preservation works, the Fishing House should be open to the public, ensuring that disclosure and access are permitted to all those who live in Oeiras and in the Country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u94	The next intervention is by Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, of the CDS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners who, since 2010 have tried to defend — I would say, save — the classified heritage of the Fisheries House. This historical heritage, this cultural heritage, this classified heritage has been degraded. It is unbelievable that the Portuguese State has allowed that same House of Fisheries to reach the state of degradation to which it has arrived, which has led, even, to the existence of 18th century tiles thefts. Clearly, this should embarrass us all. however, although late, on October 4, practically on the eve of elections, Dr. António Costa and President Isaltino Morais signed a protocol of assignment of that same equipment to the City Hall of Oeiras. We note this as a positive one, but we must move from propaganda and campaign actions to action itself. The CDS has followed this matter very closely, in particular by presenting a motion of praise to the petitioners at the City Hall of Oeiras, who have so much been beaten by that heritage. Of course, we hope that the City Council will now make every effort to ensure that this same heritage can be at the service of the people. As such, we will be following the CFP initiative, since it stems from those that are also the concerns of the CSD, for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u96	Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the Socialist Party, followed. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We should, of course, begin by thanking the petitioners for their participation, as well as the presentation of the draft resolution of the CFP for safeguarding the heritage and rehabilitation of the Fisheries House, located in Oeiras. We recognize the importance of the discussion at this time. The Fishing House was ordered to build by the Marquis de Pombal after the earthquake of 1755, in which it was considered, in the eighteenth century, the best fifth of the reign in the Lisbon area. It has been a national monument since 1940. It is a fact that this heritage has been abandoned. at least since 2007, many have been the difficulties, all failed, to safeguard this heritage. The Socialist Party has brought this matter to discussion in the local bodies several times. In 2012, on a proposal from the PS, in Oeiras, a motion was adopted that advocated the urgent need to safeguard this national heritage by preserving, preserving and rehabilitating the building and assigning this management to the municipality of Oeiras. Finally, on 4 October 2019, the Government, through the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance, signed the transfer agreement with the municipality of Oeiras for the period of 44 years, leaving the municipality obliged to carry out the requalification works within 5 years. The agreement was ratified by the local authorities by unanimity — I repeat, by unanimity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in our view, the authorities mean proximity. And we don't defend proximity just three days a week, we defend proximity every day of the week, every day of the month. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We always understand that, in order to ensure the protection, valorization and public use of this heritage, the same should be given to the municipality. For the Socialist Party, there is no State more than the State, and the central State and local power have the same objectives. We might even consider that this matter was damaged by the signing of the agreement, but not. We believe that this issue, which is not administrative but political, is about how we look at local power and how we interpret it and feel it. For the Socialist Party, the local power has as much legitimacy as the central State to take on the recovery of this heritage. That is why we have fought and are therefore very comfortable with the position of the government and with the agreement signed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u98	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexandre Poço now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the initiative of the subscribers of this petition, which brought this important issue to Parliament. Therefore, on behalf of the PSD bench, I comply with all petitioners. This initiative calls for measures to ensure the preservation, dissemination and openness to the public of a historical heritage classified as a national monument — the House of Fisheries in Oeiras. On this issue, it is important to highlight the inaction and total forgetfulness of the Ministry of Culture, which, during the process of analysis of this petition, when questioned by the Assembly of the Republic, chose not to pronounce itself, and the enormous irresponsibility of the State, which, instead of safeguarding and valuing cultural heritage, is responsible for a history of degradation of the House of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u101	Two years ago, the City Council of Oeiras and the Government announced the desire for the estate to be transferred to the management of the Authority. After writing several minutes of protocol and having been obtained understanding with the different ministries, the completion of the process was systematically prevented by the Treasury and Finance Directorate-General, i.e. by Minister Mário Centeno. It is unfortunate that during the past two years the CFP Parliamentary Group, which then supported the Government, has not contributed anything to ensure that the positive consensus between the Authority and the Ministries of Agriculture, Justice and Defence did not end up always barring in finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u102	at the Municipal Assembly we voted in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u103	Coincidence or not, as already mentioned here, two days before the last legislative elections, on 4 October 2019, the Finance finally endorsed and signed the agreement that transfers the management of this heritage to the Oeiras Authority. at this time, there is already an agreement that transfers the management of the heritage to the city and has already begun the process of recovery, because the Oeiras Chamber, replacing itself with the state, began the work of safeguarding the Fisheries House, having completed the first works of preventive conservation, carried out with an urgent character. Thus, very soon, this heritage will be available and open to the public. The CFP now agrees on the matter and presents the draft resolution under discussion today. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the present and present situation, with ongoing works and before a process that will allow us to open this heritage to the audiences, we have been able to question, as is obvious, the relevance and the reason for being this legislative initiative of the Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u104	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u105	To speak on this point, Mr Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we found out what the local power is for, in the perspective of the Socialist Party. It serves essentially to keep the works that the government does not deal with and to put money to preserve cultural heritage. We have been clarified, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u107	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u108	For the Socialist Party, in fact, the local power serves to put money for the heritage that the Minister of Culture has been systematically leaving behind and that it should effectively take care of. [[Protests of PS Members.]] The petitioners, who brought the debate this very interesting content, are greeted. If the PCP didn't bring it either, we'd be amazed. It happens that the same PCP, every year, asks the Government : "What will it give for the preservation of cultural heritage? The answer is: “Zero! ' — but the CFP approves the State budget in the same way. It does not stop being curious that we are always here in the Assembly of the Republic. « Mr Prime Minister, what will you do for the preservation of cultural heritage? “ Zero! ” « What are we going to do? Let's approve the State Budget! Do not keep on seeking. ” The Socialist Party comes: « Don’t worry, the local power serves for this, it serves to preserve what you don’t preserve! » It is curious that it is the author of Oeiras, Isaltino Morais, to preserve the heritage that the Socialist Party and the Socialist Government have failed to preserve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u109	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u110	I will finish, Mr. President. Perhaps there is a reason for that: this Fishing House is where the Marquis de Pombal had his farm. Actually...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u111	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I just want to say one more thing. In fact, the Marquis de Pombal wanted to reduce the number of ministers in the kingdom very much and make it worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u113	He's using twice as much time as he had!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u114	And we already know that, if there is something that the Socialist Party does not like, it is less ministers in this kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u115	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u116	That is why the Socialist Party does not want to preserve the heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u117	It exceeded by more than 50 % the time it had!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u118	The Bureau does not record any more entries on this point, so we have to finish it. We move on to the fourth point of the order of business, which is from the assessment of Petition No 614 / XIII / 4. a ( FENPROF - National Federation of Teachers) — They request the revision of Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April approving the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education, together with the Bills No 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Altera o Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April approving the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education and 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school educational establishments and basic and secondary schools, generally, and draft resolution No 206 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government evaluate and consider a model for democratic management of public institutions in basic and secondary schools. To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Vieira is hereby inscribed. However, it is not in the Chamber, so we are going to the next speaker. For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the PAN. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, thanks to a petition delivered by FenPROF and other teachers' unions, we have the opportunity to discuss something why teachers have been fighting teachers for so long, non-doctoral staff and students. The current model, which has existed since 1991, has brought the statement of the director's figure in a logic of bureaucratic and autocratic management, making those that are effectively the school community minor elements. This lowering of the school community that currently exists clearly confronts what the Constitution tells us, that teachers and students have the right to participate in the democratic management of schools, as well as what the Basic Law of the Educational System tells us. This diploma provides that the administration and management of educational establishments is guided by principles of democratity and participation of all those involved in the educational process and that in this management, "pedagogical and scientific criteria should prevail over administrative criteria". The model proposed by the NAP is diametrically different from that contained in Decree-Law No 75/2008 of 22 April 2008. And we say this clearly here today: we fight for the recovery of the model of democratic management, ensuring the existence of a collegial direction elected among peers, by teachers, by non-teachers, by education officials and by students of the institution. And the existence of advisory councils with the presence of representatives of the local community is also fundamental. For us, this is not only the only model that fits the general principles enshrined in the Constitution and the Basic Law of the Education System on the model of administration and management of schools as, in parallel, it is the only one that ensures a pedagogical vision that views the school as a place of learning, civic participation and an aggregate space of various sensibilities, capable of peacefully settling tensions and conflicts. We also remember that when it was necessary to comply with the national plan to make universal basic and secondary teachings the democratic management model that allowed the potential chaos to be managed, not only by the collegial and solidarity character of the directions but also by the democratic legitimacy of which they were emanated. As a result of the NAP's insistence, the Government has planned, and well in its Government Programme, that during the current legislation, it will « evaluate the model of administration and management of schools and adapt it to the new framework resulting from the process of decentralization and progress made in the field of autonomy and curriculum flexibility ». But it is necessary to ensure that this assessment is not deferred to the Greek calendars, or, worse, does not pass a promise not fulfilled. For this reason, the NAP, without wishing to burn steps, argues with this draft resolution that the Government can fulfill its promise, presenting an assessment report of the current model of administration and management of public institutions of basic and secondary schools and amending Decree-Law No 75/2008 of 22 April, recovering a model of democratic management. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u120	I apologize to the CFP for the exchange of order of speeches, which has resulted from my delay, I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP starts by welcoming FenPROF here in the galleries, as well as the more than 8,000 subscribers who demanded the return of democratic management to schools. The fundamental condition of democracy is the aspect of participation. The construction of the democratic building can and should be initiated early in the life of each person, being the public school essential for the construction of an integral culture, where students and workers take into their hands the exercise of their rights and the ways of management in schools. This is a vision of progress and is the proposal of the CFP, but this is not the current model, created by the PS government of José Socrates and reworked by the PSD government / CDS. The model in force today is right-wing policy and does not make sense that it exists. The "strong leadership" does not replace the need for decisions and collegial bodies. The autonomy of the director and his personal project do not replace the true autonomy of schools, which, in fact, is only possible if there is also more funding. The autonomy for the school to do no more than the guardianship wants to do is not a real autonomy. The democratic simulation of pre-choice and designations by the director does not replace the true freedom to elect and be elected by peers. More: there is no full democracy in schools without teachers, technicians, auxiliaries, administrative, students, parents and educators participating effectively in management. The crucial question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is it who wants to keep an unfair, late model intact that does not encourage democratic participation, which is quezilent, which provides external interference to the educational community, which contributes to the existence of more and more difficulties, for example, in such practical and small — or large — things as the holding of general student meetings? Or, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who is actually available to the CFP to take this opportunity in hand to change the regime in force and implement democratic management, developing the debate and presenting proposals in the field of expertise? This is the challenge that the PCP here leaves. We have a proposal, we can go further, we can talk, we can build a truly democratic model of school management. The CFP will remain firm and committed, presenting proposals for all those who study and work in public school to be the builders of democracy, each with its brick. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u122	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alexandra Vieira. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting FenPROF, which here brings an urgent and essential discussion, that of the return of democratic management. I welcome the almost 9000 subscribers and subscribers of this petition, but I also greet the teachers and teachers who are in schools doing their best to ensure the quality of learning, respond to cultural heterogeneity, diversity, the guarantee of the successes of all and all and all forms of inclusion. They work hard, without the ability to participate in the decision, as parts of a gear driven from the inside, controlled and based on a strong leadership, which has increasingly difficulty in being. The 23 powers of the director are impossible, since the creation, for example, of the plan to promote success, Decree-Law No 54 / 2018 of 6 July 2018 of inclusive education, and Decree-Law No 55 / 2018 of 6 July, of curriculum flexibility and autonomy. The directors themselves no longer comply with Decree-Law No. 75/2008, of unipersonal management. There are so many requirements that need to create teams and more teams to implement the changes, which is always ironic. Democracy in public school is in the Constitution and the Law of the Basics of the Education System. This path was interrupted in 2008 by decree, without any evidence of the failure of democratic management. He imposed the director chosen by a restrictive general council, making all other advisory bodies. The autonomy has been mitigated and remotely controlled. Discretionary forms of the exercise of power, clientilisms, persecutions and links to power have arisen. in the teachers' room began to reign the silence and fear on this subject. The Block proposes the return of democratic management, the election of management bodies by an electoral college, the election by teachers of various intermediate positions, a majority of professionals and students in the general council, a coordinating and deliberative pedagogical council and the limitation to two successive mandates in executive positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u125	How can we continue to defend that a school, in the face of current challenges, is directed by one-person leadership, with a concentration of powers and without the participation of educational actors? Democracy, participation and the ability to intervene are learned by exercising them. How can teachers promote citizenship and democracy in an organization that is not democratic? The challenge is to question non-democratic management, so that democracy, a civilizational imperative, returns to school. This will be the struggle of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u126	The next intervention of this debate is Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I will devote this liberal minute to the little that makes the difference. A mountaineer who reaches 50 m from the peak of Evereste does not climb Evereste, lacks a little bit. A ball that hits the beam and doesn't come in, it's not a goal, it's a bit missing. This is also lacking in these initiatives that we are discussing here today, because it is good to want the autonomy of schools and curriculum flexibility but a little bit lacking.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u128	The whole mountain is missing for the Liberal Initiative!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u129	It is good that decisions are centralized and that forms of government vary, but a little bit missing, Mrs. It is good that new and remarkable educational projects appear, such as those we saw this year in the publication of the National Council of Education, but there is a little missing. The little thing missing is the freedom of choice of parents and that little thing makes all the difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u130	Democracy in schools is not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u131	What is the point of having an excellent school if only the parents and students in the residential area can choose? [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u132	Once again, the State permits what prevents citizens. Freedom of choice is given to parents, the little that is missing and that makes all the difference. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u133	The next intervention was Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would first of all like to congratulate the petitioners and make it clear that, from our point of view, the first right and duty to educate are families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u135	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u136	The role of the State and the role of the school, whether public or private - and both deserve equal respect - is precisely to respect that right and duty of families first, and to help them in freedom and equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u137	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u138	Any model of school management has to start with this assumption: schools exist because of students and families, they are not the students and families that exist because of schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u140	...and that they have to adapt to them. More: the school should not be closed to a collective or collectiveism that is constituted only by those who work there. It must be open to communities and families. Then I would like to make it clear that this debate is establishing a strange mix between democracy and collectiveism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u142	Democracy and collectiveism are very different things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u143	Very different! Very different!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u144	Let me give an example: Portugal has a government that is democratically elected, with which, for example, I do not agree, but which is democratically elected and has a Prime Minister. It would be so absurd to say that 10 prime ministers would be needed in government to make him democratic; that is to say that a collective body is needed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u145	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u146	...and that there can be no director for school to be democratic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u147	All right! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u148	You confuse collectiveism with democracy. The existence of a unipersonal body, an euphemism to say director, is also a guarantee of a choice that is democratic but at the same time made in freedom. In order to have freedom and democracy, there must be responsibility and responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u149	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u150	And often, and this is one more of them, the demands of collectivisms serve precisely so that no one knows who is responsible when things work well and who is responsible when things work badly. For us, students have the central role. Secondly, autonomy has not only to do with management models, it has to do with the autonomy of schools to make their own decisions. Furthermore, it is also not surprising that here, normally, those who most advocate collectiveist democracies are the ones who least defend autonomy in curricula, centralism and respect for the choice of families and students. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u151	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin by welcoming the thousands of subscribers of this petition, in particular those who today follow our work, as well as the FenPROF who promoted and dynamized this petition that brings us a subject that needs to be reviewed. In fact, the current model of administration and management of schools at nothing contributes to a school that wants to be democratic, participation of all, as referred to in the Basics Law of the Education System, which refers us to a management guided by principles of democratity in which, in the direction and management of educational and educational institutions, criteria of a pedagogical and scientific nature should prevail over the administrative criteria and that this direction is ensured by bodies for which representatives of teachers, students and non-teachers are democratically elected. Contrary to this principle, today we see the existence of a single-person management, in which a director becomes the most powerful of the school, who commands and others obey, overthrowing all constitutional principles of participation and democracy. Now, considering The Greens that the school is, above all, a space where learning happens and a civic participation space, then the school has to be democratic, so that, in the combination of efforts of teachers, non-teachers, students and educational community, effective autonomy and educational development are realized. This principle presupposes that the governing and management bodies of schools and groupings are democratically elected, having in their constitution representatives of teachers, parents, students and non-teachers, with effective powers rather than becoming mere advisory bodies. Whether or not Mrs Cecília Meireles, it is necessary, in our view, to establish the system of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education, so that all members of the governing and management bodies of schools are elected, considering the intervention of the educational community, in particular the parents and the authorities, maintaining the necessary autonomy of schools and valuing the importance of the participation of students in the life of schools, as well as that of parents. Only in this way does a real dialogue be promoted between the management body and the other bodies of the school and the community, paying particular attention to the pedagogical council that should assume decision-making powers of true pedagogical and educational direction. The Greens believe in a public school of quality and democracy, run by school bodies, participated by everyone in the school community, promoting school success. in this sense, we will follow the legislative initiatives that are also under discussion today and that, in our view, they will respond to the claims and objectives of the petitioners, namely, that there is democracy in schools. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u153	Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We appreciate today the petition for a democratic school management regime, we welcome the petitioners and FenPROF and we want to make it clear that they come here to stress a relevant concern, which is the need to continually improve the democratic models of functioning of our institutions at all levels. Schools are of primary importance social institutions and we cannot abandon the improvement of their democratic management, until we allow young students who form in these same schools the appropriate life experiences in terms of citizenship and participation. The Socialist Party does not follow the erroneous claim that the current model is antidemocratic, but also does not believe that collegial bodies are collectiveism and we share some of the concerns expressed in the petition, believing that the model of management of public schools can be improved, taking advantage of the lessons learned from the years of the current regime. in our Electoral Programme, and consequently in the Government Programme, is the commitment to evaluate the model of administration and management of schools and to adapt it to the new framework that resulted from the process of decentralization and progress made in the area of curriculum autonomy and flexibility, as is also the commitment to promote the existence of representative student associations, as well as parents and educators in all schools and groups. All this within the framework of a guidance to strengthen the autonomy of schools, which also requires schools to be equipped with appropriate technical means to improve their management capacity. Strengthening the autonomy of schools is even more relevant in the context of decentralization of skills in education, since the benefits of this decentralization can only be fully enhanced by an appropriate strengthening of the autonomy of schools. in the PS Parliamentary Group, we are attentive to these commitments and therefore we have already asked a parliamentary question to the Government, in the sense that this House is informed of how and when it expects the Government to have and make available such an assessment of the existing model. As for the projects submitted by the PCP, the Bloc and the NAP, we want to be clear: it does not seem to us that the correct approach to this matter is to waste the entire regime in force, nor to return to the previous models that had to be replaced because they ceased to respond; we do not follow the idea of shaping an almost exclusive domain of school management by a single professional class;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u155	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u156	... nor do we support the method of telling the government to evaluate, but go ahead and anticipate what should be done when the evaluation is done. We believe that the appropriate method will be to work on the basis of the assessment to be made, with which the Government is committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u157	The next intervention is Mr André Ventura. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u158	Mr President, after the last speeches, especially from the Greens, the Left Block and the CFP, we have an idea that we can all agree: why are not drivers also elected? Why aren't the canteens elected as well? Why not everyone elected, from the driver who takes the children home, to the doorkeeper who's at school? Oh, my God! Why not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u159	Why not? Why not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u160	Why not now? What we want here today... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Let me finish, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u161	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u162	Your friends are up there in the galleries. Take it easy. Take it easy! May I continue, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u163	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u164	Thank you. This is not the proposal of the schools, nor of the teachers; this is the proposal of the unions that you bring here. They don't want a model for schools; they want a model for bluffing—that's what they want for schools!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u165	It's the boss's democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u166	They want a model of balbodia without authority and with limited autonomy not to municipalities but, in fact, to unions and what your authorities were. In fact, it is very curious to hear the PCP about this: a few years ago, as many authorities had, it was important to decentralise the authorities; now, as they have no authorities, it is no longer important to decentralise the authorities and then we will decentralise them anywhere else, until they have no one and there is no one left to decentralize them. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] Let's be frank: between the government of José Socrates, who approved this model and which you more or less silently allowed, and the PCP and the Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u167	He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u168	... that now come here to defend a model of nonsense, there are two classes that always stay out: the students that you don't want to know...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u169	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u170	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u171	...and teachers who need more authority, more supplements, more conditions. You are only worried about the bluff that generates in schools without any compensation and no other problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u172	He wants to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u173	It's the left in its usual generation of the usual pandemonium in schools. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u174	The next intervention is Mr António Cunha, from the PSD. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : At the beginning of welcoming the petitioners, I would like to say that without a public school of quality and with the ability to successfully integrate all without exception, Portugal will never be a truly developed country nor a full democracy as, for 46 years, we have been rightly ambitious. This is the PSD position — in fact, by Dr. Rui Rio, last Sunday, at the close of 38. the PSD Congress. Therefore, with regard to the bills and the draft resolution under discussion there are several points to consider: the school is a place of engagement, from then on to the students and to their families and teachers take a dominant role in their achievement. Despite all that is required and requested by the Ministry, to work so often without conditions, away from the family and so much beyond what is legally required, not to be heard by this and by the previous government as regards their career respects and to be under intense and constant scrutiny by society, teachers have played a central and decisive role in the transformation of public school after 25 April. in school, leadership and educational project are variables that influence the success of students. The leadership of the directors and their teams are first-order factors in the improvement of schools and has acted for the success of their students. In addition to the quality and work of the teachers, the director's leadership is the second internal factor to the school that is most relevant to the achievement of the teacher's learning and quality, because it is enhanced by the action of both the middle leaders and the top leaders. The current system of autonomy and management of schools is not perfect, but corresponded to a qualitative leap in the education system — who says it is the National Council of Education, highlighting the very positive evolution of the qualitative indicators of education data. The PSD is in favour of improvements based on the accumulated experience, but refuses to return to models of management and administration of the last century under false pretexts of democracy. The PSD refuses to move away from the school communities, because it is with them that the dynamics of participation are deepened and with them that true democracy and legitimate social and civic participation is promoted. in a school where you also learn to think, to question, to protest, to negotiate, tolerance is not a democratic school and for democracy? To say that the current model is not democratic brings with it, on the agenda, the objective of transforming schools into permanent territories of contestation of union or party action that remind us of other times. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that only those who are not in schools on a daily basis, as are the directors, teachers, employees and education officials, can claim that there is no democracy and that collegiality is the panacea for the problems of our education system. Where everyone sends, screams, nobody's right and no one's responsible. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there can be improvements, if this regime can be improved, if several parliamentary groups here have referred to this, then Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, come to the game. Come to play, because we are available to deepen this discussion, to make changes to the current regime and, in fact, to ensure that in schools in our country, in public school, there is a truly democratic management regime. This is a battle that the PCP will never stop. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u178	We will move to the last point of the agenda, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition 425 / XIII ( José Luís da Rocha Cia et al.) — They request the elimination of the portico de Neiva, portico 4 da A28, and of the Draft Resolution No 71 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the abolition of tolls in A28. To present the draft resolution, Mr José Maria Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the proponents of this petition, the High Mining Business Confederation, and the more than 7000 signatories for the act of active citizenship in the defence of this just claim. I also wanted to say that we share the objective of the petition by considering, as they say, that Portaria No. 196 / 2016 should also have included A28 because its situation is equal to that of the sections covered. However, we do not agree with the compensatory means presented, such as increasing the value of the portico de Modivas, in Vila do Conde. We can't withdraw one from another to pay for the other. On the other hand, we also do not follow the exclusive claim of eliminating the Neiva portico. We perceive its great use as access to the Industrial Park of Viana do Castelo and the importance it has, but we consider that, like this one, all the ports should be removed. in fact, the entire extension of the A28 that goes through the territorial area of the districts of Braga and Viana do Castelo has no alternative. EN13 is not in any way an alternative, because, in addition to crossing towns and cities and the population being scattered, as is characteristic of the settlement in the Min, on the bridge of Fão, for example, heavy traffic is prohibited. The SCUTs were created as cost-free pathways for the user exactly to function as an instrument of solidarity and sustainable development in which the State took on investment in accessibility in areas lacking and low density, by exempting the payment of tolls. This instrument is fully justified by its social, economic and territorial impacts, particularly in regions where purchasing power is reduced. Between the time they were created and the days of today, we do not see that there has been any change, so this prerogative is maintained, which should be continued. In October 2010 tolls were introduced on the motorways of the northern coast and the central coast. Throughout the country, the application of the user-payer principle was done blindly, by economic criteria, including in the concessions of the SCU and others that had not been contemplated in this way. Portugal has become more than 1000 km away from paved roads, without addressing different situations. in the case of A28, motorway of the north coast, as in all other cases, it was a wrong and very unfair measure that, in this particular case, has only harmed the north region, affecting especially the districts of Porto, Braga and Viana do Castelo. It was the users, populations, authorities and companies in these areas who saw their difficulties increased. Even if not all the extension of the A28 is crossed by low-density councils, the truth is that this way of communication serves low-density territories, as is the case with many of the municipalities of the High Mining. In addition, it is an important economic link with Galicia and it is a plan of this government to help combat the depopulation of border territories. At least it was propagated as such and we were still talking in this House yesterday about territorial cohesion measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u181	We are faced with an unfair situation, which needs to be corrected, and therefore we present this draft resolution for the immediate abolition of the collection of toll rates throughout the extension of the A28. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira spoke by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who brought to the Assembly of the Republic issues related to the tolls in the former SCUT, in particular in A28 — a motorway that, through the districts of Porto, Braga and Viana do Castelo, is a structural axis in the northern coastal region — and, more specifically, the issue of the portico of Neiva, considering until its location at the entry of an industrial zone. The PCP has had an ongoing intervention, defending and proposing the abolition of tolls in the ex-SCUT — in all ex-SCUT! — in all its scope, including, of course, in the A28 and the portico de Neiva, which is referred to in this petition. The introduction of tolls in the former SCUT in 2010 was a harsh blow to the economic fabric and worsened many of the already difficult living conditions of all those who, without alternatively, circulate in these structural ways. The introduction of tolls was thus made in the wake of the interests of the population, of the economic fabric and of any prospect of sustained growth for the regions. All these years, it is indeed possible to conclude that in this process there were those who won, the concessionaires, and there were also those who lost, the state, the regional economy, the workers and the general population.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u185	The reality shows that the introduction of tolls has accentuated economic difficulties, particularly in the productive sector, a vital element for the sovereignty and development of the various regions and the country, but has also created difficulties in job creation. For the PCP, it is clear that the introduction of the tolls meant a step back and that it had very serious impacts on the economy and on the living conditions of the populations. The 15 % reduction in the value of tolls in the ex-SCUTs, which was realized in the previous legislation, is insufficient. The guarantee of accessibility and mobility of populations, support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, support for regional development, require the elimination of these tolls in all former SCUTs, which also helps to combat regional asymmetries, for economic growth and for the mobility of populations. In fact, this whole situation could have been resolved at various times when the PCP brought to this House initiatives that proposed the elimination of tolls, including in A28. If those initiatives had been approved, we would not be discussing this problem again today. Including, in fact, the proposal presented by the CFP in this State Budget, in order to eliminate the tolls in the ex-SCUT, but that PS, PSD, CDS and IL, with their votes against, prevented it from being approved. Since the first hour, the CFP has always opposed the introduction of tolls in the former SCUT, it has always been among the populations, in solidarity, in the fight against its rapid elimination, and that will be the intervention that we will continue to have. The populations and the economic and business fabric of Viana do Castelo, de Braga, do Porto, which are served by A28, but also the populations of the rest of the country, can count on the PCP to continue demanding the end of the tolls in the former SCUT. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u186	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Oliveira has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate all the signatories of the petition that we are discussing, in the person of the first signatory, President of the High Mining Business Confederation, Eng. José Luís Ceia. In principle, the Socialist Party accompanies many of the assumptions present in this petition. We are in favour of measures of positive discrimination in the interior territories and of strengthening cohesion between regions, and it was already this assumption that the former Government began a reduction in the cost of tolls in A28. The positive discrimination of these territories was well within the electoral programme with which the Socialist Party presented itself to the last legislative elections and is also well present in the current Government programme. It makes sense to reduce the value of the toll rate in A28, in particular for the movement of private vehicles and economic agents with a view to reducing costs and improving the quality of life of residents in those territories. It is in this sense that the Government is studying the feasibility of a proposal that can standardise the discounts already existing in the toll rates for all vehicle classes, and also introduce for Class 1 new types of discount for frequent users. Regarding the project of the Left Block, which recommends the abolition of the tolls in A28, the Socialist Party fully understands the goodness of the proposal. In fact, the feeling of kindness is the only feeling present in this project of the Left Block, but the Socialist Party does not present itself to any debate only with the feeling of kindness. [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u188	For the Socialist Party, the feeling of responsibility must be present in this debate and in all others. It is this feeling of responsibility that makes the Socialist Party have to know the benefits and improvements, but also all the financial impacts, of all the measures it approves. And the financial impacts underlying the project of the Left Block are not known at this time. at this moment, it is this feeling of responsibility that does not allow the Socialist Party to follow the project of the Left Block because it presents only kindness, lacking responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u189	For an intervention, Mr Ventura has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u190	Mr President, it is at this point that he realizes that he has much to learn from the Socialist Party, indeed. It congratulates the signatories, thanks everyone, congratulates the PCP and the Block, but when it comes to the end it says "but our responsibility does not allow us to go there. Thank you, Portugal, thank you, Portuguese, but we can't go that way»!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u191	Your irresponsibility allows that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u192	This is the responsibility of the Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] In all documents, in all support principles, it always agrees with the PCP, with the Block, with the signatories, but when the time comes to enable it, it makes absolutely zero! Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, this is the truth: Portugal is the fifth country in the European Union where dealers earn more money, the fifth country with the most paid road. They are not given to congratulate the signatories, it is to the Portuguese that they have to congratulate for this and the truth is that the A28 with tolls only harms those who want to benefit from the local economy, the airport itself Francisco Sá Carneiro, the whole local economy and dynamics. [[PS protests.]] Today, more than thanking the Bloc, the PCP and the signatories, they had the opportunity to say « we will move forward ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u193	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u194	I will finish, Mr. President. Once again, what we have is a 'number' mounted, a Member who comes forward to say this, and what is the result? In absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u195	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u196	We're absolutely the same. It is the custom of the Socialist Party and it is the habit we have in this House. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u197	For one last speech on this item on the agenda, Mr Eduardo Teixeira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u198	Mr President, I would like to congratulate the 7426 petitioners, in the person of Eng. Luís Ceia, who was the first subscriber to the petition, as well as the delegation, present in the gallery, representing the interests of the High Mining Region in the business confederation to which he presides. The presentation of these motions is very important and the Assembly of the Republic cannot and should not ignore this form of participatory democracy. Therefore, we thank the petition that presented, very significant and very representative, up to the population level of the municipality of Viana do Castelo. This petition was submitted two years ago and deserved, in the report submitted by former Member Fernando Jesus, to whom the PS Parliamentary Group welcomes the opinion it has issued, the agreement of all Members in the Committee on Economic Affairs on this issue of the elimination of the snow porch. In reply to Mr. André Ventura, I say that also in the last election campaign all parties, today with parliamentary seat, of the district of Viana do Castelo defended the need to eliminate the portico of Neiva. It seems, then, that there should be a broad consensus on the elimination of this portico, which constitutes an obstacle to the pendulum movements, intra and extra-council, in the connection of fregueries to the city of Viana do Castelo, to the competitiveness of companies, to cross-border cooperation, and penalises those who produce and work in the largest industrial area of the region. It was precisely 10 years ago that, after promising and not doing so, the Socialist Government introduced tolls in the former SCUT in a model of collection by porticos and the form found was strongly penalizing for the Mininho region, bringing incalculable economic consequences. of the four existing charging ports, three are located in 32 km of its extension and in the 38 km final towards Porto there is only one, and then in the section where there is an alternative public transport of a metro line connecting to Porto. But the model based on portico allows, for example, that there are parts of the highway that have no charge and others that have. How is it possible that, within 70 km, there are no charges in 35 km and that the remaining 35 km are paid as if they had traveled the 70 km? Oh, my God! It was precisely to compensate for this injustice that in 2012 the PSD/CDS government was able to remove—yes, to start! — the seven ports which the PS has left ready and installed in this region to further penalise the High Mine,... [[Protests by PS MP Marina Gonçalves.]] ... trying to bring the connection between Viana do Castelo, Arcos de Valdevez and Ponte de Lima and the connection between Viana do Castelo, Caminha and Cerveira. Continuation of protests by PS MP Marina Gonçalves. Yes, they were taken from the territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u199	It is now up to the PS government, after 10 years of the existence of the Snow portico, to do something about this region, correcting the error and injustice it has committed in order to give a clear signal and an essential contribution to mobility and accessibility, promoting the social and territorial cohesion of the region.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u200	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u201	I will finish, Mr. President. In view of this fair petition, we therefore urge all parliamentary groups to vote on the draft resolution which we tabled on 3 February on the elimination of the portico, and the portico itself represents only €350,000 per month in the budget of the Infrastructures of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u202	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u203	Allow me, Mr President, this final sentence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u204	No, you really have to conclude, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u205	A fair initiative for the economic development of a region which, despite its coastline, has very characteristic economic power indices in the interior. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-13.u206	Mr President, I am sorry, but an overrun of 50 seconds in just a few minutes is a long time and therefore I could not afford it. But with all due respect I tell you that tomorrow we will have another plenary session and, therefore, we will have the opportunity to listen to each other for longer. The agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, beginning at 10 a.m., has several points of debate. First of all, we will take a joint assessment of the proposed Law No 3 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant and of the Bills Nos 180 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Approves the Statute of the Old Combatant and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant. Secondly, we will also jointly, in general, appreciate Law Proposals Nos 1 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the new legal regime for the establishment and operation of pension funds and pension fund managers, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 2341 and 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Adapts the sanction schemes provided for in the legal arrangements applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers. The third point concerns the general assessment of the Bill No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Harmonizes and simplifies certain rules in the system of value added tax in intra-Community trade by transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 1910 and 2019 / 475. Fourthly, there is also our agenda, but no time for debate, Law No 2 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposition of Commission Delegated Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 369 of 13 December 2018 in order to include new psychoactive substances in the definition of drugs by introducing the twenty-fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 15 / 93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Finally, we will appreciate Petition No 603 / XIII / 4. a ( Ricardo André de Castro Pereira et al.) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to correcting the monthly declarations of remuneration of all teachers hired with incomplete schedules, together with, in general, Lein. 85 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( BE ) — Accounting for days of service for the social protection of teachers placed in incomplete hours and 97 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Special scheme for accounting for the working time of teachers in incomplete hours. Tomorrow, as you know, it is Friday, so there will be a vote at the end of the debate. Before closing the session, I would like to remind you that, at the end of today's work, a Holocaust Memory Day Evocation Ceremony will be held, and I hope that many of the Members and the Members will. Ladies and gentlemen will accompany me. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 6 minutes.]]
