ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. I ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file before we get on the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u2	Mr. President, very good morning to all. They have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives: Proposal for a Law No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( ALRAM ) — By fair equilibration of IHM - Housing Investments of Madeira, EPERAM, the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IP, in applying the reduced VAT rate to the rehabilitation of buildings for social housing, which falls to 5. the Commission ; Draft Law Nos 179 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Reduce the number and volume of packaging in commercial products ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 152 - D / 2017 from 11 December ), which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission, 181 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Regulates the lobbying activity and establishes a register of transparency and a mechanism of legislative fixation ( makes the first amendment to Organic Law No 4 / 2019 of 13 September and the fourth amendment to Law No 7 / 93 of 1 March ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 14. the Commission, 182 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Access and free of charge of emergency medication acquired by patients with severe allergies, which falls to 9. the Commission, 183 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to pet animals and extends the protection of susceptible vertebrate animals ( amends the Penal Code ), which falls to 1. aCommission, 184 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Making labelling rules for the presence of genetically modified organisms more transparent in animal by-products, meals and non-packaged products which fall to 7. the Commission, 185 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 186 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Second amendment to the Access Scheme for Administrative and Environmental Information and Re-use of Administrative Documents, approved by Law No 26 / 2016 of 22 August 2016, adapting the composition of the Access Commission to Administrative Documents to the new Incompatibilities Scheme provided for in the Statute of Deputies, which falls to 14. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, having been admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 174 -A / 2019, of 18 December, amending the basis for the granting of the operation of the passenger transport service of the north-south axis of the Lisbon region, and the Resolution Projects No 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of public services in the municipalities of Odemira and Aljezur and the definition, within a maximum of one year, of the definitive urban solution for the lack of conditional housing supply, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and 13. a Commissions, 193 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Adoption of the necessary mechanisms to prevent the purchase of the Media Capital Group by Cofina, as well as to prevent conglomerates in the area of social communication, which falls to 12. the Commission, 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government develop an analysis of the impact of intensive and superintensive agricultural crops on natural resources, ecosystems and public health, which falls to 7. the Commission, 195 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a moratorium regime for the installation of new intensive and superintensive crops, which falls to 7. the Commission, 196 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government strengthen consumer rights by including on the olive oil labels of the type of agricultural system: traditional, intensive or superintensive, which falls to 7. the Commission, 197 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government the compatibility of the scheme for flexible access to pension age with the current specific pension access schemes, in particular as regards workers of pier and miners, which falls to 10. the Commission, 198 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Make several recommendations to the Government arising from the sale announced by EDP, Energies de Portugal, SA, of six dams in the districts of Bragança and Vila Real, which falls to 11. the Commission, 199 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Construction of a home of elderly people in Sacavém, in the municipality of Loures and 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to India, which falls to 2. the Commission. I now report on the report and the opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members on the waiver of the term of office of the Deputy Consunção Cristas ( Lisbon electoral circle ) and its replacement by João Gonçalves Pereira from 27 January 2020. The Commission has decided to deliver its opinion on the waiver and its replacement comply with the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I welcome the new Member of the CDS-PP, who also knows this House well. Before we get on the agenda properly, I wanted to tell you that, this morning, I had a quick meeting with the leadership of the Free Party and also with Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira. The honourable Member has just sent a communication stating that, as of today, 3 February, she will exercise her mandate as an unregistered Member, which means that we will have to take certain measures for tomorrow's plenary in relation to the times in the electronic picture and also to the place where she sits in the Chamber. However, none of this is urgent, and it can perfectly wait for tomorrow. Thus, in the midst of all these difficulties, I am grateful that there is good sense, allowing us to move forward without further problems. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore get on the agenda, which is the subject of the special debate on Law Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. Under the Proposal for a Law No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020, the Bureau records the entries of several Members. Members to speak on Article 2. o — Strengthened value. Mr Afonso Oliveira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State: Mr. Prime Minister even stated that this is his best budget. The question that arises, right at the beginning of this debate in the specialty, is to know how the Government and the Socialist Party explain that this is their best budget and what has less parliamentary support. It's weird! More than 1200 amendments have been tabled. It is a fact that the PSD was not responsible for most of these proposals, but this excess volume reflects a lack of consensus. This budget hits another record: that of the negative comments of the social partners. Some say: "It is a document of continuity, not ambitious and little for companies. Others say: "This proposal is timid, insufficient and without impact on companies. Others say: « This budget is completely unbalanced and contradictory » ; « It is a mischievous and ambitious budget » ; « It is not fair and it places workers in a continuity of austerity ». Other social partners also say: « It is a hand full of nothing» ; « It is a disappointment » ; « The increase in money for health is only propaganda ». We can only conclude that, until this stage of the debate, we have a clear demonstration of the government's inability to read reality and obtain consensus. What does the government do about this reality? We have the Government and the Socialist Party very pleased with their Budget, as if it were their recipients, we have the very unsatisfactory social partners and we have the Portuguese, who are the true recipients, to bear the costs of this Budget. It is worth reflecting on this phrase. This is a Budget which will also achieve a historical record of the tax burden. It does not respond to public investment needs and does not respond to the needs of better public services. As the people say, it is “a lot of cunt and little grape”. This is a bad budget for Portugal and for Portuguese! [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the responsibility to rule the country was the PSD, we would have a substantially different budget. We've already said it! There is another opportunity to have a Budget with a growth-focused policy, with a bet on the gradual reduction of tax burden, with more public investment and better public services for all citizens. We believe that only with a substantially different policy is it possible to meet the structural commitments and act on the factors that make GDP (gross domestic product) grow potential.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u6	Only in this way will we be able to improve Portuguese income in a sustainable way. There is no doubt that the responsibility for the Budget lies with the Government. It is not up to the opposition to present alternative budgets, but it is up to us to make choices. We have already said, and we reaffirm, that the PSD does not choose a bad budget for the Portuguese. We choose to minimize the government's bad options and the negative effects of this budget with one objective: to improve the lives of Portuguese people. The 66 proposed amendments to the budget submitted by the PSD represent a strong sense of responsibility and, as we have always said, guarantee the sustainability of public accounts, not putting the forecast of budgetary surplus at stake. I repeat: they guarantee the sustainability of public accounts, not putting the budget surplus forecast at risk. We have no doubt that the Portuguese understand very well that proposals such as those aimed at ensuring that no military receives less monthly than the minimum wage, that regulatory entities are excluded from the Ministry of Finance's captives or those aimed at reducing the VAT rate (value added tax) from electricity for domestic use are fair and appropriate. We therefore do not accept the style used during this debate period, in particular by the Minister of Finance, which has demonstrated a great creative capacity and a huge difficulty, at many times, in dealing with the truth. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : on our part, the Portuguese can have a strong sense of responsibility and the willingness to decide on the merits of the proposals. We sincerely hope that this phase of expertise will put the debate on a high level, where the interests of the Portuguese are at the centre and always first. I repeat and finish, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the interests of the Portuguese are always in the centre and first of all! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u7	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles. at this time, a panel of the side boards of the Hemicycle fell. This is just smoking! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u8	I believe so, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, in the speciality of the State budget for 2020, which is beginning today, I unfortunately believe that one of the first conclusions we can draw is how much and quality are very different things. We have a government that, despite having only a relative majority, decided to present a State budget as if it had an absolute majority. The result of this is a huge spread of proposals in which propaganda and reality have never been so distant. Today we start a debate in the specialty of more than 1000 proposals for amendments to the State budget, most of which are far more detailed than they would, for example, be in a Government programme. The CDS presented 48 amendments. They are objective, focused, responsible and possible proposals. They mark a different path, freeing families from the greatest tax burden ever, with responsibility and without questioning the sustainability of public accounts. I give as an example the proposal that we present for reducing the IRS (tax on income of natural persons), a possible and responsible decrease, only with a small saving of the State and which does not cause the budget surplus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u10	We also put forward proposals for the government to actually fulfill the promises that its constant propaganda makes it come here to this House. And finally, we present proposals that have to do with a different conception of society without ideological prejudices and freedom of choice in health and education. In the coming days, we will examine the more than 1000 proposals. But there is one thing that stands out from almost all of them: the enormous creativity that the government wants, and above all, the parties that support it have the ability to tax, tax and pay the whole economy and everything that moves. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u11	There is no limit to creativity in this area. In addition to the new taxes that the government has already created, such as packaging or devices, we still have taxes on cellulose, digital products taxes, netflix taxes, meat taxes and air transport. We also have the enormation of local accommodation and the multiple forms of tourism enormation. For this majority, all economic activity can be taxed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u13	It is also important here to highlight, in some proposals, prejudice against the rural world. The huge distance that goes between the symbolic measures that the Government presents to the interior and to the oneuration of the interior and all its economic activity, particularly through the tax that the NAP has decided to create — imagine there! — on the flesh...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u14	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u15	It has not yet been approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u16	... and that it only charges national production, exempting international production.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u18	That is to say, it bears our production, portuguese, and leaves without paying tribute to external production, when 50 % of the meat consumed in Portugal is of external production,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u19	It won't be approved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u20	... which shows well that among the gracious statements of those who say they are concerned about the interior and those who, in fact, care about the way of life of the interior and who know that the products we eat and our food are not born in caves in supermarkets goes a world away.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u22	We hope that there will be a good sense in this House to realize that making a State Budget is not to tax everything that moves or everything that strives to work and climb into life. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u23	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês Corte Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u24	It is Sousa Real, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already passed a month and a half since the Budget was presented and during this time, as we have said before, we have taken a responsible and constructive position, open to dialogue, with the presentation of proposals we believe necessary to make the country move forward on a more sustainable path, both from an environmental, social and labour point of view. We have done so with the conviction that our measures are necessary and valued by society, but also with the sense of responsibility of those who believe they can only demand after contributing. In addition to the measures we were able to see included in the Budget, in general, we presented 236 proposals for amendments to the State budget in such diverse areas as the environment, mobility, work, health, education or justice, as well as on combating corruption, transparency of the political system, agriculture, protection and animal welfare. We have already stressed the rise in the exemption from VAT for service providers from €10 000 to €12,500, the end of the use of palm oil in fuels, the strengthening of labour and legal support for victims of domestic violence or the hiring of 15 nutritionists to the Ministry of Education and the creation of a national strategy for animal protection, which includes, in addition to the strengthening of funds for the official animal collection centres, the creation, for the first time in our country, of a legal regime allowing the reception of wild animals and livestock. The NAP has, however, never failed to point out the multiple inconsistencies that this budget presents and the gaps which, in fact, overtake it, since it is a double-sided budget, a Budget that is more concerned with what they think of us in Brussels than with those who live in this country. in this case in particular, we have already said it and we say it again as often as necessary, a proper budget of accounts will necessarily have to be a budget that accounts, firstly, to people and only then to certain sectors, such as banking, intensive livestock or hotel. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are starting to vote on the Government's 2020 budget. A budget which Mr. Prime Minister has called for 'his best budget' but whose debate has so far shown us that it is caught on glass roofs, even though it is not because of the little credit he seems to deserve, from then on, the other members of the Government because of the shortage of money allocated to justice, education, housing, the environment, and that he is actually paying this budget. The 1300 proposed amendments which this budget has received reveal the fragility of the document. Here arrived, this is the time to receive the various contributions and to integrate the various sensibilities of those who want to collaborate, so necessary to ensure the stability of governance for what remains of the year. For the NAP, a budget which has a budgetary deficit must necessarily be a budget that alleviates the efforts of families, from the younger to the older, particularly by reviewing the steps of IRS. A budget that has millions to cover the mismanagement of the bank should extend the social rate of electricity to more families, it should guarantee tax benefits in investment in energy efficiency and strengthen public investment in quality, such as through human and material resources in the areas of health, education, justice or public security. A budget that does not charge revenue from highly polluting sectors should promote energy conversion to cleaner ways of production or recover animal collection centres, should carry out public animal welfare policies and support the purchase of food for deprived families that have pets or even associations that so many and so often replace the State in animal protection instead of creating more fees and fees. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party: this is the moment of truth. Don't build bridges without foundations. The NAP starts for this week with the calm awareness of those who have done everything to sum up and who, above all, our proposals are economically and socially balanced and are also, in a climate emergency context, coherent and necessary to realize the decarbonisation of the economy. The ball is now on your side and we want to believe that they will meet this challenge, not shrinking from the advances already made in the initial version presented by the government and contributing to the necessary changes to effectively make of this "best budget", a more humane and sustainable budget that begins to trace the path back to the real needs of the country. Having said this, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, would you like to leave three questions to him: is the government available to extend the social rate of energy to more families? Are they available to raise the ceiling for VAT exemption to service providers from 10 000 € to 12 500 €? In line with the story of the fight against climate change, is the Government prepared to end the exemption of ISP (charge on oil products) from air and maritime transport? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u25	Thank you, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. I'm sorry about your lateness. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : In the face of a limited and insufficient State budget, which sacrifices the country's needs in the name of the obsession with the budget surplus, the CFP has fulfilled what it has said since the beginning and which is our brand in this Budget, i.e., we have not given up any battle before we stop. Even knowing that the Government's options do not allow the country's needs to be met, as we see in this Budget, we do not give up fighting and, with our intervention, our proposals and initiative, we open up the possibility of significant advances in the lives of the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u28	We do not give up pensions and their increase to continue in 2020 the extraordinary increase initiated in the previous legislation, at the initiative of the CFP. We will not give up and continue to fight to ensure free daycare for all children, in a public network with sufficient vacancies. At the initiative of the CFP, the possibility of ensuring the free of charge of day care centres for the year 1 is open by 2020. the and for the 2nd. the steps of the IRS from the second child. This is a measure that will help resolve the deficit which, yes, must be rapidly converted to the surplus and which is the demographic deficit which compromises the country's future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u30	We never give up being able to take away the freeness of school textbooks, no longer dependent on their return. The possibility of ending the demand for returns and red tape with manuals is open, delivering new manuals to first-cycle students. We do not stop consolidating the advances in reducing the costs of public transport and in fighting for its enlargement and for the strengthening of supply, in view of its freeness. The CFP does not give up a fairer fiscal policy than dishonors the lowest and middle incomes and, at the same time, ensures that the large capital pays its taxes in Portugal and does not run away to tax havens. The CFP does not give up the need to reduce electricity and gas VAT, returning these essential goods to be taxed as such, thus reducing the energy bill, which is the most expensive in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u32	We present proposals to invest in public services: in the SNS (National Health Service ), in public school, in security forces and services, in transport, in housing, in culture, where it is necessary to invest today in order not to leave heavy inheritances to future generations. In the discussion and the votes that will follow, from the first to the last article, our determination remains the same: to act to achieve all that is positive and necessary to correspond to the interests of the workers and the people. That is the commitment of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u33	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen: You entered this State budget in this Parliament on 15 December and, seven weeks later, we are here to begin the vote in the speciality and global final. It was a process similar to the country, a heavy, Byzantine, low-productive process that no one seems available or interested in changing. The PS itself agrees with this, because it presents more than 90 amendments, of which about 35 represent lapses, corrections or clarifications. Some of them are also the recognition that the criticisms made in this House were right to be, as is the case with regard to the money for the Constitutional Court, for the installation of the Transparency Entity or for the correction of the IRS for babies, which obviously now covers a greater number of families, according to the PS proposals, although there is no direct reflection of this change in the money. For our part, we have put forward proposals that reflect our liberal view of society, with more choice for people, more freedom and less taxes. We'll hit-CL- us for them! We will fight for them hard, but we have no illusions: the state will continue to be heavy and will continue to fatten. The Portuguese will continue to be unable to choose most of the important things in their lives. This is definitely not the budget that Portugal needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u35	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the first budget of this legislature. from eight months ago we started a new budgetary procedure, this time for the State budget for 2021. Having said this, we want to say that this Budget cannot be seen as the Budget of everything or nothing. This State budget is a budget which advances in the central areas of the previous legislation, in terms of the recovery of rights and income, in social justice, and which also advances in job creation. It is a Budget that reinforces the priority policies that are included in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party and in the Government Programme, such as the priority to give to health and the National Health Service with a strengthening of investment... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which by 2020 has a budget allocation of EUR 1900 million greater than the year 2015. It is a Budget that strengthens public housing policies and is a Budget that strengthens investments in the transport sector. But it is also a Budget that fights inequalities in our country, continuing the priority started at the end of 2015. Therefore all social security benefits rise in 2020. The social security budget increases EUR 1300 million. The family allowance grows, the solidarity complement for the elderly grows, the social benefit for inclusion increases, and the parental benefits also grow. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a budget that continues to introduce and adopt support measures for our companies and is also a budget with less public debt. Budget consolidation does not sacrifice the fight against inequalities, nor does it sacrifice public investment. To reduce public debt is to reduce the greatest threat to the future of our economy, less debt means less taxes in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u38	The Socialist Party presented a set of proposals for amendment to this Budget focused on areas we consider fundamental: combating poverty in the elderly; simplifying access to the supplementary solidarity for the elderly and dispensing the income of children up to 3. the scale of this benefit with the sole objective of increasing the number of elderly beneficiaries who, today, are still below the poverty threshold, so that they can access this benefit, so that the objective of having no elderly persons living below the poverty threshold is met in 2023.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u40	We also consider the extraordinary increase in pensions essential, and for the fourth consecutive year, the Socialist Party and the Government of the Socialist Party propose the extraordinary increase in lower pensions. This is a great measure that much honours us and of which we are very proud. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also essential, in the fight against inequalities, the existence of free daycare for all children up to three years of age for the families of 1. the scale of social support in day care with cooperation agreement. Another axis: young people. We propose extended school passes to vocational education students, i.e., Passe Sub23 and Passe 4 /NP 18. If this proposal of the Socialist Party is approved, it will be extended in 2020 for vocational education students. We also have a proposal, submitted by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, which exempts from IRS the working incomes of young students integrated in the IRS declaration of their parents. In the housing we propose the strengthening of EUR 7 million in the budget of the IHRU ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) to further strengthen public housing policies and fiscal reinforcement in the Porta 65 Programme. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : These proposals for amendments to the State budget, tabled by the Socialist Party, follow the principle of budgetary responsibility. We know that the debate on the budget in the field of expertise always has room to improve and strengthen certain measures and policies, but all proposals which have been adopted in the speciality, in our opinion, cannot call into question budgetary stability nor can they undermine the principle of good public accounts. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u41	Budgetary responsibility contributes to the political and social stability of our country, and that is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will be beaten in this process in its specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u42	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: In the various measures presented by the Left Block, there are proposals that strengthen spending on public services, health, housing, education, means of combating economic crime, corruption, higher pensions. There are also proposals that increase revenue, increase VAT on hotels, end of the scheme of non-standard residents, increase the flow of IRC, or even tax on banks and their tax benefits. There are proposals that aim to increase transparency and defend dignity as the end of the golden visas. Of all these proposals we would like to highlight two: the first on money for the New Bank. The proposal of the Left Block is that any new capital injection into the New Bank be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic in its own law, so that each party giving a ruling on it. The Block proposal is the only proposal under discussion that guarantees this end, i.e. any new injection of capital must come to the Assembly of the Republic, unlike, for example, the PSD proposal that gives the government a white paper to inject money into the New Bank up to EUR 850 million. In fact, the Government says it is 600 but authorizes a expenditure of EUR 850 million and the Assembly of the Republic has a duty to create a transparency rule on new capital injections in the New Bank. Secondly, we would like to highlight the VAT of electricity. Although the NAP has changed its position, there is a majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic who believe that VAT on electricity is excessive. in an attempt to approximate the concerns of the Socialist Party, the Left Block presented an intermediate measure, moving VAT to 13 % in the middle of this year and to 6 % in 2022 and presented budgetary compensation for this measure through the equivalent increase of VAT on hotels or the end of the scheme of non-standard residents. There is no reason why this measure should not be approved unless it is the blackmail of the PS which, ruling in a minority, has failed to find a comprehensive agreement for the State budget, is closed in its intransigent position and wants to condition this debate by victimization. The victimization of the Socialist Party is not convincing, because there is an intermediate solution, there is a budgetary compensation which was presented by the Left Block and which the PS and the Government systematically refused. Victimization also does not increase the debate, because it seeks to gain in blackmail what loses in reason and ideas. Lowering VAT is fair, it is in the Block programme, the Block will respect its mandate and will vote in favour of what is right, which is the reduction of VAT from electricity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u44	It is the turn of the Greens, so I give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public, The Greens abstained in the general vote of the State budget for 2020, but did not refrain from presenting proposals for amendments in the field of specialty and we do so - in order to bring more social justice and more environmental balance to this important document which is the State budget. As we said in the discussion in general, our abstention had the very clear purpose of giving the Socialist Party an opportunity to recognize or acknowledge the real problems of the Portuguese and the country's priorities. in this sense, The Greens presented a set of amendments in several areas with particular focus on four axes that we consider fundamental. The first is the fight against climate change with particular emphasis on transport, particularly rail, and also on energy efficiency, with particular importance at the level of public administration and its buildings. The second is the fight against regional asymmetries, highlighting here the need to value family agriculture not only when it comes to combating regional asymmetries but also where family agriculture represents in the fight against desertification to face the abandonment of the rural world and also from the point of view of preventing forest fires, because where there are people and where there are less fires. The third axis, which we highlight as fundamental, is that of social justice and here I highlight two proposals presented by the Greens in this State Budget: on the one hand, the need to extend the Social Step + to the entire national territory; on the other hand, to create compensation with the acquisition of the social pass for the long-term unemployed, and we view this proposal as a decisive step in the future to make the pass free of charge for these people. The fourth axis is the strengthening of public services in general and in particular in health, education and justice. At this point it remains now to wait for the way in which the Socialist Party views all the proposals presented by the Greens in the field of expertise so that we can define the direction of vote by the Greens Ecological Party in the global final vote of the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u46	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : Today we begin to discuss in the specialty a Budget that we know how it will end. It is a budget in which the Government once again presents itself as the target of a victimisation and we all know that the Left Block, at the right time, will be there to hand over to the Government in VAT on electricity. Is that fair? Oh, my God! It is! But when the time comes, let's see how they're going to vote. When these gentlemen who are here say « we go and go to the elections», let's see how the Left Block will react. For our part, elections are something we are not afraid of. So whenever you want to, we'll go again! [[PS laughter.]] This is also the Budget of the step back in the fight against corruption, because the government, while the champion of this struggle is said to be the champion of the fight, invests several million euros in the Judicial Police, knowing that the Judiciary Police is the competent body to investigate corruption crimes. Always the same! Always the same way: give us on one side and take us on the other, with the left all to see, applaud and say that we are on the right path. But it is still a Budget that will transfer to foundations, to observatories and to another constant set of things, that the Portuguese little know and little know, words as never before seen. Foundations, observatories and all this receive money that all Portuguese know and know that it does not serve more than to break, unique and exclusively. Thus, the arrival proposes a one-third reduction in transfers to foundations, which only serves to reduce what the Portuguese have in their pocket and to increase distributed patches you know by whom! But this is also a dangerous budget for something else: because we are in the process of approving euthanasia in this House, assisted death. And this government doesn't bring this House... [[Protests of PS Members.]] Yes, assisted death! Assisted Death! And this government does not bring to this House a single decent proposal on palliative care. True, Antonio Costa was right: Portugal will be the first. But do you know what will be the first? It will be the first country in the world to have assisted death without a net of palliative care that dignifies those who go through suffering. [[Protests of PS Members.]] We should be ashamed to legislate on that. This budget is therefore the same: it is a budget only « to see», with the support of all those who, in the end, know that they will give it. More of the same! We were already waiting: nothing new to discuss here. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u48	Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin my intervention in opening this work in the field of expertise by wishing all parliamentary groups and all Members to have a good and fruitful debate, so that the budget coming out of this Parliament will be better than the one that has entered. I also want to greet the parties by the way they actively contributed to this process. Some 1200 amendments have been tabled, which represents a lot of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u50	You can think it's a lot of work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u51	We hope that this will also mean an improvement in the debate and in the construction of the budget. This high number of proposals provides that objectives assumed by the government can be consolidated or discussed different options than could be another State budget with an alternative path to Portugal. The State Budget is an instrument which aims to give shape to the Government Programme. We define strategic objectives and challenges and respond to policies that we include in this proposal. This is the first Budget of a four-year legislature, but it is a Continuity Budget with the policies initiated and agreed during the previous Legislation, policies that rejected a fatalist vision on the right and demonstrated that another path was possible. Betting on income-enhancing, rights-replacement and public services has enabled growth, job creation and improving public accounts. It is an impossible budget to shut down the policies and results we have had over the past four years. It is a budget without retreat, which assumes all the policies initiated, but also benefits from its results. It assumes the last four years in its entirety, part of what we have already achieved and improved, and that is why a better budget than any of the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a Budget that assumes a historical investment in health and this, Mr. Afonso Oliveira, represents to increase the supply and quality of services, with more professionals and with more free access to the National Health Service, with the reduction of moderate rates, as we commit ourselves when we adopt the Health Bases Act. It is a budget that strengthens public transport, which gives continuity to the PART(Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme), one of the most transformative measures for the lives of people who use public transport, every day, for their mobility. It's a future budget. It is a budget that responds to all generations and social sectors. It is a Budget that places people and their priorities first. It is a Budget that responds to young people, supporting their emancipation, through the IRS and new housing policies; it responds to families, with the strengthening of the family allowance and with measures to encourage birth and improvement of parenthood conditions; it responds to workers and entrepreneurs, with policies that strengthen confidence in the economy, in creating jobs, in valuing our competitiveness, but also in adapting to the challenge of digital transition; it responds to the elderly, with the approach of the CIS to poverty threshold, protecting those most in need. Finally, it is a budget that responds to future generations, with the energy transition, either in strengthening public transport or in reducing support for the polluting industries. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is also a Budget which, like those of the last four years, is responsible, moving forward only to where it is possible to move forward, so as not to revert to the present no gains already achieved, nor to compromise future achievements provided for in the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have therefore come to this debate with responsibility. We are presenting ourselves to this debate with seriousness, clarity and transparency on what we can and cannot do. We will not do so by promising to lower all taxes and, at the same time, raise all expenditure or investment, as if it were an exercise of magic. The budgetary debate is democratic, but it must be responsible at the same time, under the penalty of compromising our achievements and to which we want to continue, what we propose and even what we negotiate. We therefore believe that significant increases in expenditure should be assumed by the government in a negotiating process, or compensated by those who propose them. Otherwise they represent irresponsibility and may compromise the implementation of the Government's Programme. That's how this government would be with anyone else. Mr Afonso Oliveira, to approve proposals, as the PSD proposes, without compensation, is to approve another budget in its words. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u52	He didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u53	As regards VAT, the Government also presents an intermediate proposal, an alternative proposal. The reduction in VAT was not in the Government's programme and however, the Government proposes an intermediate proposal, a balanced proposal, either financially or environmentally. We are sorry that there seems to be no party to follow the Government's proposal, at least as a priority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the political context of this Parliament is different from that of the previous one. However, in the view of the Government, it was clear the intention of the voters to keep Parliament at the centre of national political action and for the majority who made the last four budgets work in the same direction. Given this reading and what we believe to have been the will of the Portuguese, we have sought to renew the dialogue and the building of bridges with the parties represented in Parliament with whom we have had our understanding in the past four years and with the parties that have expressed similar willingness to work during the elections. We therefore look forward, through dialogue and negotiation with left-wing and environmental parties, to improve the proposal delivered, strengthen, consolidate and accelerate objectives we share, either in combating social inequalities, in freedom of access to public health services or higher education, in promoting environmental policies, in housing policy or in supporting the beginning of life of younger people. Some of the results of this dialogue and negotiation are already in the public domain. Don't hide them. We demonstrate availability for advances in matters such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, the strengthening of the Fees Reduction Programme, the freeness of day care, the elimination of moderate rates in primary care, the reduction in the propines of 1. the cycle, the modification of the stock exchange regime, the strengthening of support for family or biological agriculture or support for victims of domestic violence. In reply to Mrs PAN, we are equally willing to step up the exemption limit in service providers or even for the revision of the social rate, for example, when considering the unemployed. We will continue this path over the next few days and will seek that this joint dialogue and construction be a reality in this Budget, but also throughout the entire Parliament. The State budget for 2020 will continue to demonstrate that it is possible to live better in Portugal. It will be another element in developing our economy and promoting equality in our society. We want to respect the will of the Portuguese, to value their rights and to dignify their lives. We hope to build a better country, with a future and for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u54	Still within the framework of Article 2. the, and I think that in direct relation to the same article, Mr Alberto Fonseca, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, the practice of captivity has taken on an unusual dimension.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u56	This is already Article 4. Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u57	In the previous legislation, they increased by 60 %, so we cannot allow the quality of life of the Portuguese people to continue to be captivated by health, safety and education. We have capitulations at maximum levels and public services at minimum levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u59	If it is the government itself that says that this State budget is the same as continuity, then we have no reason to believe that it will be different now. This situation becomes even more serious when we talk about regulatory entities that are, or at least should be, independent entities, under the penalty of the State failing in its role as regulator, questioning the confidence of citizens in institutions and in the State itself. With the current levels of captivity, the Government intends to keep the regulatory entities in captivity, preventing them from investigating, monitoring and regulating them. This is not the state we want, and therefore the PSD proposes that total captives do not exceed 75 % of what was verified in 2019 and still exempt regulatory entities in order to ensure their independence, autonomy and status. The left to the left of the Socialist Party has been accompanied by criticisms of the use and abuse of captivations. We believe that they will follow us, in consistency, in the direction of voting on these proposals. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u60	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 3. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations. Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese hope that the Government will be a reference point of good practice, that it will give good examples, that it will be responsible, regulated and weighted in its work. Thus, it is not at least acceptable that in a country where most Portuguese earn little and where records are beat in tax collection do not put limits on government spending. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u62	You see, in an unsurpassed way, the government resolves to provide itself with a brutal increase in its spending with ministerial offices. It is more than 42 % in 2015, plus 22 million euros. It's a lot of money! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u63	On average, each minister per year has around EUR 1 million and each State Secretary has around €700,000 to spend on their offices. This is an unparalleled, scandalous growth, not to say shameful. This government talks every day about SIMPLEX, but it has no way of creating one for itself. It's the biggest and most expensive government ever. In reverse, the PSD Government had reduced these expenditure by 23 % compared to 2010. Minister Centeno said last year that he had a budget that was wearing Prada. Well, we say you have ministerial offices lined up in Prada! [[PS protests.]] Thus, taking into account this uncontrolled spending, we propose that such increases in ministerial offices be allocated to the energy bill to warm up the Portuguese house and to allow them to have a little more quality of life. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u64	You now have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD has criticised the Budget for greatly increasing expenditure, but its proposals for this Budget increase expenditure and therefore, in time, taxes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u66	On the question of children, once again, I insist that it is something that is not true. There are no children in SNS or education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u67	All right! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u68	Secondly, on the question of cabinets, the number presented by the PSD is incorrect and you can see it on the budget maps. I would like to ask the following question: if the PSD proposal on expenditure on cabinets, which is worth EUR 5 million, compensates for VAT of EUR 800 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u69	It's worth 22 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u70	The PSD says it is 22 million, but in practice the value is much lower. If this proposal is not approved, then is the proposal for VAT made by the PSD harmful? That's the point we left here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u71	It's the same proposal. You're hurt, aren't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u72	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum submitted by BE, an article 6. o -A — Public housing park. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members proposed in their Programme more than 50 000 fires by 2024, which would mean at least 300 million euros a year. This does not remain in this budget, and I shall explain why: firstly, because there is a desire to continue to sell the housing estate of IHRU and social security; secondly, because the budget needed for these public housing responses has been eclipsed. So, and because he does not retreat in urgency, we propose, firstly, a profound change to Article 6. that of the bill, so that the central State does not sell its building, which can respond to housing deficiencies. Secondly, we propose a strengthening of the IHRU allocation of EUR 150 million, which fulfils the Minister of Finance's estimate of September 2019 as regards the provision necessary for the development of the accessible rental public park. It's not too complicated. To have a public park has to start by not selling it and investing in it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u74	We now turn to Article 7. o — Budget transfers. Mr Filipe Pacheco of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Porta 65 Jovem has for several years been the main national instrument for encouraging housing for young people. This programme has given a robust response to the needs of young people and younger couples, and that is why we, young people, do not forget what happened at the time of the PSD/CDS-PP government, in which the expenses with Porta 65 have decreased. Only more recently has there been a recovery of this investment and an increase in the budget appropriations for this programme. It is a path that has been made with successive increases and with the extension of its access to young people up to the age of 35. That is why, in this context, the PS has in particular put forward a proposal to strengthen this programme more than EUR 2 million. The Government had already done so, in the original proposal, with an increase of EUR 2 million to Port 65 and the Socialist Party presented a proposal for an amendment of EUR 2 million to a total of EUR 22 million. Overall, we are talking about an increase of EUR 4 million, i.e. an increase of more than 20 %. It is true that it is always better money, but we know that this programme and these amendments have to be framed in all the instruments that have been presented to strengthen housing support programmes. This budget globally increases investment in public housing and also launches a real housing policy, with a new phase of investment, rehabilitation and construction of an affordable public housing park—and that is good! It is therefore in the framework of these proposals that we also make a proposal to strengthen the allocation of the Porta 65 Youth programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u76	Under the same article, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP proposals represent concrete measures to advance and improve substantially in responses and solutions to more and better public transport. We propose that the cost of tariff reduction in transport be strengthened to ensure that there is no de-investment of central power to this extent whose scope and importance are more than demonstrated and also to ensure that there are more effective responses in intermodal and interregional links. We propose the strengthening of the funds in the programme of densification and strengthening the supply of public transport, ensuring more appropriate means of intervention in this area, putting as a concrete objective the replacement of the supply of transport to the populations. We propose that the measures necessary to acquire new trains which are indispensable to the CP, both in the long-term service and in the suburban links, where investment in rolling stock is urgently needed and where we also propose that the CP be approved for the railway workers who need to call on the service to fully safeguard their rights. We propose that there should be no budget cuts and that the funds provided for in the previous budget for the financing of the operational activity of transport undertakings, in particular where the problem arises: Transtejo, Soflusa and Metropolitan of Lisbon. In the Lisbon metro we also propose that the decision of this House be complied with and respected and that the Government do not insist on this strategically wrong project, which is the aberration of the circular line, and that progress is made on priority investments in the connection with Loures as well as the Alcântara and the western area. For the first time, we presented the proposal for the creation of the free transport programme for children and young people up to the age of 18, extending this reality and this right, but also presenting the proposal for a 50% reduction in the price of public transport to users from 65 years of age. Mrs. Members, over the years, have been calling utopian, unrealistic and irresponsible the proposals of the CFP that are in force today and that have become a reality for the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u78	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u79	We therefore never forget that it is worth fighting for the country to move forward, with the concrete proposals we put to the vote in this budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u80	You have the word, even in relation to Article 7. Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Article 7. I would like to mention a proposal from the CDS to strengthen the budget of the Judicial Police for the hiring of 100 inspectors, stating only that the strengthening of the training of the Judicial Police is in fact a priority of this government which is already reflected in the Budget, with a substantial increase in the budget of the Judicial Police, as well as the budget of the Institute of Financial Management and Justice Equipment. However, the increase in the number of inspectors of the Judicial Police is a concern and, therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has put forward a proposal to extend the tender which is currently going on, because all other proposals aim at new tenders, which are too late and will not, in the short term, achieve the objective, i.e. to further strengthen the human resources of the Judicial Police. I remember that only this year will you enter the service 156 new judicial police inspectors and that there is a competition for 100 more inspectors. What is now intended, with the Socialist Party's proposal, is that the competition which is currently being developed be extended and a new competition open for 30 more scientific police specialists. With regard to all the other proposals that exist in this State budget and which are alternatives to it, we will vote against them, because firstly, they do not take into account the fact that tenders are very tough and it is necessary to equip the judicial police as soon as possible with more inspectors and, secondly, to see careers whose needs are not assessed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u82	We now turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 7. o-B — Strengthening the words of the Directorate-General for Arts. Mrs Beatriz Dias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, and good morning to all Members and all Members. Law No. 81 / 2019 creates the Network of Portuguese Theatres and Cinetheatres and provides in Article 7. the, which the Government promotes the creation of a programme to support programming, ensuring it with a specific amount in the State budget. However, the proposed State Budget Act for 2020 does not provide any money for the Network. The Left Block therefore presents the proposal for allocation by the Ministry of Culture of no less than EUR 6 million to the effective implementation of the Portuguese Theatre and Cinematories Network. On the other hand, the support for the arts, through the financing of the Directorate-General for Arts, is insufficient, chronically insufficient. In the two-year competition for 2020 - 2021, 40% of the applications considered eligible were left out. These results were strongly challenged by the structures. The proposal for a State Budget, however, does not present any solution to the problems identified by the professionals and the competitions jury. The Left Block, yes, seeks a solution and proposes a strengthening of the money for the Directorate-General for Arts, worth EUR 6, EUR 4 million, totalling EUR 12, EUR 8 million over the two years in order to ensure the financing of applications eligible for the Biennial 2020 / 2021 Competition Juries. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u84	For the discussion of the addition of Article 7. o-D — Strengthening the words of the Lusa Agency, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2019, Lusa suffered a cut of €650 000 and in parallel the increased expenditure resulting from regularization of precariousness and defrosting careers did not correspond to an increase in the Agency's allocation. Worse still is the fact that this appropriation has not even been updated by the inflation rate. Independent journalism is under threat today. We need, as never before, a public agency capable of qualifying the information we have access to. To ensure the minimum operating conditions for the Lusa Agency is therefore one of the amendments which are imposed on the proposed State budget submitted by the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u86	We then move on to Article 12. o — Transfers to foundations. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal transferred some EUR 63, EUR 8 million to foundations in 2015 and EUR 73, EUR 3 million in 2016. It's a lot of money to transfer to foundations! It's a lot of money to transfer from Portuguese bags to projects we don't know well. It is therefore proposed that these amounts should be reduced by about a third so that we will not once again have the foundations to survive much of the Budget which has the greatest tax burden ever in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u88	Let us move on to the discussion of Article 14. o — Budgets with gender impact. Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The gender-impact budget is an excellent tool to measure the impact of the Budget on the promotion of equality between men and women and, therefore, also in order to combat inequalities. It was by the hands of the PS, in the socialist governments, that the political commitment was established for the first and only time to enter this budget in the State Budget, in 2018. Earlier, the previous year, it had done the same for domestic violence. The PSD is now welcome to this discussion. Better late than ever, but I can only point out the pilot projects that were made by a platform of non-governmental organizations of recognized international merit, which made a report, presented in June, with conclusions, recommendations and pilot actions. To highlight just a few examples of these proposals, I can only mention measure 82, which provides for positive measures to prevent and combat domestic violence, but also a proposal, which will surely be taken into account by the Minister of Justice, so that the building of the courts will have spaces for victims and aggressors in line. Now, for complex processes there are no simple and trivial answers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u91	... are processes that take a long time, that do not take place in a day or a year. There is a need for training of public agents, organizational changes, sex-disaggregated data, which do not exist. So I mean rest. It will be by the hand of the PS that the Budget will no longer be neutral and by the hand of the PS that the State Budget will be a great tool to combat inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u92	We shall then proceed to the discussion of Article 16. o — Normal career development. Mrs Diana Ferreira of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Valuing public services is inseparable from the value of their workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u95	They are workers who, every day, are in schools, hospitals, health centres, social security, services and security forces, justice, culture, finance and many other public services. They are workers who have had wages, careers and lives frozen for more than 10 years, but who have been there every day to ensure the functioning of public services in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u97	This reality cannot be ignored and, in collective bargaining if it is in fact, a significant wage valuation must be guaranteed for all employees of the Public Administration... [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u98	...to restore the lost purchasing power over all these years and to compensate these workers duly. It is also necessary to restore, create and value new professional careers in Public Administration, considering its framework, the specificities of the functions performed, defining and ensuring their valorization, progression and consequent remunerative appreciation. And the CFP has a proposal for this need. As you also have a proposal for all the time of service provided by career workers and special bodies to count for career progression and remunerative valorization. It is also necessary to combat in order to end precariousness in Public Administration, to conclude the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precarious Links in Public Administration ) and to ensure the effective linkage of all workers who, in the Public Administration, correspond to permanent needs, even those who have felt negative, even those who have not been submitted to PREVPAP or those who have been subsequently hired. For this too, the CFP has a proposal. It is necessary to ensure that the points for progress that have been absorbed, when they should not have been, in particular in the repositioning in 2019, that for many workers it means waiting for another 10 years to progress, are, yes, returned to the workers and contain for future progress in their careers. It is also necessary to guarantee the supplement for insanity, penosity and risk, which is not a privilege of the employees of the Public Administration but a right, as it is necessary to restore the payment values of the additional work and on holiday and recover the rights of the compensatory rest. For all these problems, the CFP has solutions and proposals in this Budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u99	Mr André Ventura has the floor, even with regard to this article 16. o.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is inconceivable that the professionals of this country, in addition to being attacked daily and weekly, having no adequate protection solutions, also see that their pay developments and their protection, from the point of view of counting working time, are also completely disregarded. Therefore, and unlike the CFP, which has always presented the same type of proposals, these are proposals that count career time, freezing time, because they have passed the salary step. These proposals, yes, aim to protect these officials, teachers, police, nurses, doctors, health professionals, who have seen their lives forgotten by a government that has been there for four years, who goes to the second term and continues to throw blame on the right that he has ruled for not how many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u101	We then move on to the addition of Article 16. o -A— Recovery of all time of service provided by workers integrated in special careers of the Public Administration. Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliament has the opportunity, in this Budget, to correct the error of the previous legislation which was the blackout of service time, a decade of service, for special careers of public service, military, police, teachers, workers essential to the special functions of the State, who feel, in their career, social devaluation and inequality in relation to general careers and the devaluation of the work they perform every day. This devaluation has as a consequence, in the case of teachers, what has been felt: the lack of teachers in schools. Also for this, the Left Block presents three proposals: the change of the norm-work to allow linking teachers, support for teachers displaced with regard to housing and transport expenses, and also the right to social protection for teachers with incomplete hours. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u103	Let us now discuss Article 19. o — Aid for costs, additional work and night work in public foundations and public establishments. Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Teachers are of the public service professionals who find more inconsistencies throughout their professional life. Many are, by tender, placed away from their homes and are obliged to travel many kilometres daily, as many times as without a network of public transport at the time. Others are even forced to rent a second residence, so that they may remain a part of the week. All of this involves high costs and teachers do not have any kind of wage valuation because of the fact, which, in practice, means they have to pay, and much to work. This situation is one of the causes for the lack of teachers, either in the schools of the major centres, because the cost of accommodation, either in the interior of the country, because it is impossible to bear daily expenses with fuel and tolls. The Greens therefore propose that the Government, together with the representative structures of the teachers, should provide aid for the relocation and relocation of these professionals. And there are many reasons, in the Greens' opinion, for the Assembly of the Republic to decide and the Government to establish cost aid for the travel of teachers in the school year 2020 / 2021, to be placed in schools or groupings distanced more than 50 km from their residence and where there are no public transports that can satisfy the daily needs of travel or that are placed in schools or groups quite apart from their residence and are therefore obliged to rent housing. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u105	To intervene on a proposal for an addendum to Article 19. o -A — Risk allowance for all security forces, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: This proposal refers to a risk allowance for all security forces. It does not cease to be curious that a country that has been moving forward and backward for so long in relation to its police officers is unable to reach a consensus on the risk allowance, which is more than deserved, for all security forces. Mr Prime Minister is always saying "let us look at the best examples in Europe". For we look at and see that police are not at risk, that criminal police are not at risk, that prison guards in Europe are not at risk. in this country, where the police, when they have a situation with a citizen of an ethnic minority, are immediately racist, we cannot even give them the minimum dignity and protection they deserve in their duties. That's why the arrival won't give up while all the cops—all of them! — they are not entitled to the risk allowance they deserve for their profession.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u107	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 20. o — Combating precariousness, for which there are several amendments. Mr. José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PREVPAP was a flag of the fight against precariousness that comes from the previous Parliament but which continues with several problems with regard to its implementation and, more than three years later, remains unfinished. The proposal presented by the Left Block in this area has six objectives: firstly, resolve all pending cases in the first quarter of this year, without leaving anyone behind; secondly, do not exclude people on the basis of unfair and unjustified criteria; thirdly, apply the protection regime which prevents the dismissal of workers awaiting integration; fourthly, correct incorrect and unfair integrations into careers and professional categories; fifthly, clarify how and to whom resources are addressed, when workers challenge the decision of the evaluation committees; sixthly, define that still in 2020 an assessment and regularization of the precarious links that have remained outside the PREVPAP temporary window. It is a fair proposal and, from our point of view, it is essential. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u109	With the Bureau's apologies, I shall give the floor to Mr Telmo Correia, to speak on Article 19. that of the bill, given that, over time, we have been overlooked. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u110	It does not matter, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In fact, for the CDS, this subject of Article 19. it is of the greatest importance and we would like to leave it clarified. We are making a proposal to finally assume, in budgetary terms, the payment of the payment of the payments to the security forces. It should be remembered that the Government has already said three different things in this matter: first, it said it did not pay; then, condemned by the court to pay, said it only paid from 2019 onwards;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u112	... finally, under pressure, the discontent and protest of the men and women of the security forces, he said he would pay, but he said he would pay under this government, that we know, that is, he will pay, but when, how and how... he will create a commission, he will do a study, he will see if he can pay and when. This is why what the CDS proposes is a very important compromise: that it is guaranteed, in budgetary terms, the payment of all pay supplements to the security forces. And now that the risk allowance is also envisaged, which this Parliament has adopted by majority but for which the Minister of Internal Administration said: 'Well, I know what that is, it is a resolution, it is not to comply'. It's not acceptable! Women and men of the security forces, who risk their lives every day to ensure our safety, must have and must have a risk allowance, as their effects must be strengthened. This one, if you like, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the test of cotton: either these proposals are approved, and we can accept that there is some good faith in the government, or they are not approved, and we know that the government has lied before and now continues to lie. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u113	In order to intervene, further within the framework of Article 19. the, has the floor Mr. Under-Secretary of State and the Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u114	Mr. President and Mr. Members: In fact, we are going to start paying. Contrary to what the PSD and CDS government did, which did not pay the subsidies, this government started paying them in 2019...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u115	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u116	...and will pay those who are late, which will do in their respective legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u117	When?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u118	From this year on. [[PS Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u119	We now move on to a proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 26. o -A — Promotion of green public procurement. Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bet on green public procurement needs to be prioritized. The PSD said so in its electoral programme and reaffirmed it in this debate. The choice of goods and services that meet the right environmental criteria, with benefits, either by reducing environmental pressures or by gains of efficiency and competitiveness, must be reaffirmed, so that it can be a contribution to a truly circular economy. The Government must present the results of the implementation of this strategy and incorporate specific environmental criteria that motivate changes in the options of those who acquire goods and services and those who provide them. Criteria covering materials, procedures, production processes, criteria focusing on energy efficiency, efficient use of resources, low emission levels and reduced use of hazardous chemicals in recycling, reuse and carbon capture. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u121	You now have the floor to speak on the proposal for an addendum to Article 28. o -A, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As far as public security is concerned, despite the budget forecast an increase of EUR 72 million compared to 2019, it remains clearly insufficient. at a time when populisms and extreme discourses, which feed on fear and insecurity, are growing, there is no need to ignore the lack of investment in police forces. Between 2010 and 2020, the percentage of investment in PSP and GNR was 17 %, the SEF was 28 % and the PJ was only 1 %. The truth is that all security forces need more investment, either because of the lack of psychological support provided to these professionals, where one of the highest suicide rates occurs; either because of the lack of means to work, because of the mediocre conditions of some police stations, because of the lack of professional valorization, because of the lack of staff or even due to insufficient and inadequate remuneration for their duties. The NAP presented a number of proposals for amendments in order to dignify the various forces and their professionals, and we reiterate here the importance for the country to approve these proposals. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u123	We move on to the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 34. o -A— Payment supplements and risk allowance. Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. and Mrs Deputies: Valuing work with rights and decent conditions is the basis for a democratic rule of law. The Left Block believes that the requirement of the functions that perform the elements of security forces and services, especially risk and danger, are conditions that require due recognition and therefore we propose the creation of the risk allowance for these professionals, in line with the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic adopted in 2018. It is also important that in 2020 these professionals are fully returned to the retroactives of paid supplements during an unlawfully cut holiday period. It is not a favor or privilege, but only to return what is already in these professionals and that has been illegally withdrawn from them, as confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court. And because the conditioned work is not done without professionals, we are defending the recruitment of professionals to criminal police bodies, the judiciary, the security forces and services, in particular the PSP and the GNR by 2020. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u125	Mrs. Members, let us now turn to Article 35. o — Recruitment of workers in public higher education institutions, for which an amendment was submitted by the CFP. To submit this proposal, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : In higher education and science, the CFP presents various measures aimed at students, workers and institutions, so that the rights and value-added public services essential for the development and progress of the country are respected. One of the key issues of our proposal is the fight against precariousness, with the re-evaluation of negative opinions within PREVPAP, which in this area had a particularly brutal weight, with better conditions for recruitment of workers to the institutions, with the progressive integration of researchers subject to precariousness due to the condition imposed on them, as scientific research fellows, and necessarily with the repeal of this instrument of exploitation which is the Statute of the Research Fellowship. Other key issues which the CFP brings to debate in the framework of the State budget are the fight against the underfinancing of institutions and the national scientific and technical system, with proposals for structural rebalancing of policies, with the realization of an extraordinary programme to safeguard, preserve and modernise public higher education institutions and with the strengthening of EUR 21, 8 million for state laboratories. With this, we believe that we have more conditions to respond to the one who is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution, of access, use and work in the highest levels of teaching. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u127	Mrs. Members, the proposals for the addition of Article 36 are followed. o -A. To submit the NAP proposals, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The plan announced by the Government for Health in 2020 does not solve the structural health problem in Portugal. Following this path, Portugal will, in the short term, resume its huge debt in this sector, once again losing the opportunity to make the substantive changes in this area. You can't treat health with quick thinking! To give efficient answers, we need more professionals and value. But we still don't know how many professionals and which government will join the SNS in 2020. There is a lack of professionals in the most diverse areas and it is about some of them that we would like to talk about here. Since 2012, psychologists and nutritionists have been committed by the Ministry of Health to the creation of their career, but everything remains the same. The NAP resumes this subject and proposes the creation of these two special careers, as well as the strengthening of these professionals in the SNS, with 55 nutritionists and 40 psychologists, which are essential for greater effectiveness of health interventions and for the sustainability of the SNS itself. There is another predominant activity in the SNS that has been badly abused: that of health assistant technicians, who have lost their career for operational assistants and who see their functions, knowledge and specialized technical training devalued. They represent 20% of existing resources in the SNS. It is incomprehensible that the government does not see the creation and regulation of careers of health assistant technicians, because it means that it does not value, that it does not properly recognise these professionals. There can be no doubt that these professionals are indispensable in monitoring patients and in helping with clinical practice and that it is necessary to ensure the attractiveness of this profession. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u129	Mrs. Members, the following is Article 37. o — Replacement of subcontracting of companies by hiring health professionals, which was the subject of several proposed amendments. To submit the proposal of the PSD amending Article 37. Mr Rui Cristina has the floor, adding a paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2010, the annual charges of the National Health Service, with medical services, the so-called health professionals, amounted to EUR 130 million. Five years later, thanks to the policies of the PSD Government, these costs had been reduced by 40 % to around EUR 80 million per year. And despite the promises of the last four years, the fact is that the Socialist Party Government has always increased these costs, which even exceeded the EUR 106 million in 2018, a failure which the Minister of Health himself described as the "cancer" that is going through the national health system. The Social Democratic Party has come here today to propose that Parliament impose on the Government a concrete target of 15 % in reducing costs with professional doctors, much less than the 35 % reduction that PS promised in 2017. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u131	We have moved on to the proposals for the addition of new Articles 38. o -A to the text of the bill. To submit the NAP proposals, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with the lowest number of physiotherapists per 100 000 inhabitants. Investment in qualified physiotherapy professionals results in improving the functional capacity of the population and better health indicators. We got the strength of 50 physiotherapists in the SNS. Also in order to reduce the waiting lists in the area of vision and to ensure access to public responses in time and quality, it is necessary to raise health needs in the area of vision, promoting the hiring of specialized professionals who are decisive to existing needs and waiting lists. And because the contexts of health intervention require measures to control, monitor and correct risks to people and to the environment, we also consider the integration of 40 environmental health technicians in a hospital context. We also remember the conditions of access of the deaf person to the SNS services. Deafness is an "invisible" disability that has been treated with remedy. Deaf people have their own needs and forms of communication, demanding proper mediation. In order to ensure the adequacy of health intervention and ensure respect for the needs of the deaf person, the NAP reminds the government of the commitments made in the State Budget last year, with regard to the hiring of 25 Portuguese gestal interpreters for the SNS, prioritising the response to emergency episodes. We hope that the government will not fail this time. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u133	You now have the floor for the same article, Mrs Susana Correia, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this State budget, the expected increase of 8400 health professionals aims to meet the needs identified by the various institutions of the SNS and reduce the use of services. There will be a strengthening of the autonomy of health units that integrate the SNS, in particular in relation to contracts for replacement of health professionals. These data lie on the ground the criticisms of a right that does not present credible and responsible alternatives, which are worthy of ensuring that Portuguese and Portuguese have increasingly and better access to health. This effort that the country makes is only possible thanks to four years of rigorous fiscal and financial management, which today makes it possible to make more and better investment, the greatest ever investment in the National Health Service. Therefore, all of us must be committed to the defense of a better SNS, with more human resources, motivated and committed to the provision of excellent health care to whom they need most. The PS has always shown openness to approve all proposals made this State Budget an even better, more responsible budget with human resources from the National Health Service with better quality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u135	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 40. o -A — Reinforcement of vacancies for specialized medical training. To intervene, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The National Health Service is built by those who work there every day and any budget that really wants to give priority to the SNS must strengthen the number of professionals and must create decent working conditions and careers for these same professionals. The proposal submitted by the Government does not do so and therefore the Bloc submitted several proposals for amendment to the Budget which, yes, give priority to the National Health Service, namely: to hire, by 2020, the professionals identified as necessary by hospitals, health centres and by INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) ; to increase the number of vacancies for the training of medical specialists; to create the career as an auxiliary health technician and to review careers such as the TSDT ( Superior Diagnostic and Therapeutic Techniques ) and that of nurses; to regulate the profession of optometrist and to recognize specialists in medical physics. All these proposals are necessary, fair and possible, budgetaryly, and those who want to give priority to the SNS can only do one thing, which is to approve them! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u137	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 43. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or rupture. Mr José Maria Cardoso, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Our proposal adds a new paragraph 7. Article 43. o — Recruitment of workers in municipalities in a situation of sanitation or ruin, stating that « the limitations on the hiring of workers in this Article do not apply to the integration of workers resulting from the internalisation of activities of local business entities ». What is the basis for this proposal? Workers of activities developed by local business sector entities may not be harmed when the municipal company is extinct, either for reasons of legal imperative or by decision of the municipal bodies themselves. in this sense, we want to say and reaffirm that, if the functions are assumed by the municipality, the workers who performed these functions will also have to be assumed and, as such, integrated in the municipality. That is why this is our proposal for an amendment to Article 43. o. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u139	Let us now take a leap forward and turn to the appreciation of Article 58. o — Increased income of pensioners and combating poverty among the elderly. To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To value pensions, to ensure a new extraordinary increase, to pursue a path that effectively means a recovery of the lost purchasing power for pensioners and pensioners, a path initiated in the previous legislation, due to the insistence of the PCP, which has put an end to cuts in pensions and reforms and which has guaranteed three extraordinary increases, benefiting more than two million reformers. This is a path that the CFP does not give up. And, showing that the updating mechanism does not guarantee justice in the recovery of pensions, the CFP submits a proposal that aims to ensure that by 2020 an extraordinary increase is achieved identical to that achieved in the previous legislation, without prejudice to fighting for the extension of the minimum increase of 10 euros, as is also evident from our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u141	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u142	It is also necessary to ensure that thousands of pensioners who receive minimum pensions and who have long career contributions see their pensions valued and, therefore, we propose the creation of two new minimum pension scales for those who have 36 or more years of discounts, with the appreciation of their amounts. It is necessary to improve the solidarity complement for the elderly, to respect the autonomy and dignity of the elderly and to eliminate the consideration of the income of children for the allocation of the ISC. It is necessary to eliminate and correct injustices, such as those created by the sustainability factor; to eliminate this penalty at once, but especially for workers in rapidly worn-out professions, ensuring that, even those who have already asked for reform, do not have the penalty of the sustainability factor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u143	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u144	It is necessary to eliminate the sustainability factor for long-term unemployed, who also need better conditions of social protection, but also to correct injustices for those who were pushed into early reforms and suffered brutal cuts in their pensions and who, if reformed today, would not have those cuts. For all these realities, the CFP has proposals in this Budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u145	With regard also to the same article, Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, of the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: This is a State Budget that advances on the journey we have seen since 2015, in which a new extraordinary increase in pensions is included. We continue to fulfil and accomplish all that we have proposed, having achieved it without any amending budget, without any budgetary deviation and without any unconstitutionality, made that not all parties can be proud of. For the Socialist Party, the State Budget is a political instrument, not strictly accounting, in the name of a future for our country. To deal with this future is clearly to safeguard public and universal social security and, through it, to support those who need it most, as is the case with the poorest pensioners and reformers. When we started our governance there was a double risk of social security: a weakened labour market, with high levels of unemployment, precariousness and low wages, which was not only a social time bomb, but a time bomb on social security. With the « accounts in red», we were told that it was necessary to freeze, to cut pensions, to break the contract of the State with which you paid a full life for their reform and to end intergenerational solidarity between the Portuguese. But no, that wasn't even necessary. by rejecting this path, we demonstrate that not only was it possible to restore income, restore rights, increase pensions and maintain a trajectory that improved social security indicators, but that it was not even possible to do so otherwise. Social security is an authentic seat belt of security for our democracy, guaranteeing standards of justice and cohesion among all Portuguese and, therefore, we must preserve and cherish as a pillar of the democratic system itself, far from radicalisms and experimentalisms. Through the State Budget we translate this very clear ideological vision into acts visible in everyday life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u148	That is why a Family Friendly State Budget is not made of proclamations but concrete initiatives, such as this extraordinary increase in pensions and other social protection measures that we will adopt in this Budget, improving the lives of millions of Portuguese people. The extraordinary increase in pensions will be EUR 10 or EUR 6 depending on the value of the lowest pensions, which accumulates with what we have done last year, in the previous year and in the previous year, in addition to the regular increase benefiting millions of pensioners and pensioners. Finally, the way this measure was presented and was debated shows well the spirit of openness and dialogue with which the PS has come to view this specialty, ensuring advances that were already in our Program but that are not contradictory, neither in amplitude, nor in calendarization, with the expectations of other parties with whom we hope to continue to respond to the positive expectations with which the Country looks at the Assembly of the Republic, in meeting the challenges of the whole legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u149	Mr Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD, for an intervention on this same article.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: For Article 58. I would like to say that the PSD follows, as in the past, the extraordinary increase in pensions. We understand that this is a fundamental tool for combating social inequalities and for combating poverty. What the PSD does not understand, and also the Portuguese do not understand, is the negative discrimination that is done in this article: who has less is the least received! There is discrimination here where pensioners are greatly increased up to 10 euros and where others are, without any justification, increased by just 6 euros. It's good that you guys are. Members explain why they commit this injustice with thousands and thousands of pensioners. Speaking of injustice, I would like to take this opportunity to present the proposal 972 - C, which the PSD brings to the discussion of the State budget, of the addition of a new article 58. o -A — Payment of pensions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at present, the State commits a very serious injustice, at the IRS headquarters, to pensioners: it pays - late and bad hours - there are pensioners waiting for years to receive their pension. Now, when the State pays them late and late, it does not pay them what they are entitled to, because it gathers all the income in one year only, which makes the State accumulates revenue that is not due to it and does not pay people what is due them. We therefore propose that this injustice be promptly corrected and that the State return — so that this rule will have a retroactive effect — at the IRS level, the money with which it unduly stayed to pensioners. That's the only way we'll actually have family-friendly policies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u151	You have the floor to speak on this article, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD came to this debate saying that there was an excess of expenditure growth, that the budget adjustment was not sufficient, subjecting the country to risks. Everything I have heard from the honourable Member is not consistent with that speech. It is not consistent with everything they have rejected in recent years. I take this opportunity to announce that the Government will record all the expenditure approvals the PSD makes, to demonstrate to the Portuguese how the PSD's speech is inconsistent, as the PSD says today that the budget adjustment is insufficient and is over-expenditure and then actually makes proposals for increased expenditure and taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u153	Increase in expenditure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u154	Let us, every day, demonstrate the inconsistency of the PSD position, which makes proposals to increase expenditure in the face of an approved budget with a left-wing agreement, and let us make clear what impact you have. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] From here on, the PSD can no longer criticise the government for the 'inadequate' budget adjustment, it can never say that expenditure grows too much, it can never say that the tax burden increases, because the PSD, in the face of an approved budget with a left-wing agreement, comes, against everything it defends, to present proposals that exacerbate the public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u155	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has signed up to speak again about this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to leave a note, in reply to the Secretary of State, asking you whether to submit a proposal to return to the Portuguese what they paid the most is to increase expenditure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u157	I wonder if Mr. Secretary of State wants to respond, telegraphly too. [[Pause.]] Having regard to the fact that Mr. Secretary of State does not intend to use the word,... [[There's no answer! Shut up!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u158	... we shall proceed to the proposal of Article 58. o -A— Combating poverty among the elderly. Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has committed itself to the need to protect the elderly and to combat poverty, and it is therefore surprising that we have recorded the various proposals that have entered into budget on this matter. In fact, this is the budget in which all social benefits are strengthened and therefore the Government's efforts in these matters are clear and clear. the set of cross-border measures that are presented in the State Budget for 2020, in addition to the updating of pensions, with a particular impact on 1. the step, also highlights the advances related to the solidarity complement for the elderly, which happen in two ways. On the one hand, and firstly, the ISC knows an extension of the legislative changes that had been introduced into the previous legislation, such as the replacement of the reference value that had been cut down in 2013 by a right that fills the mouth with the defense of the elderly while harming their living conditions, and on the other hand, the ISC knows the beginning of a progressive updating course of its reference value. In addition, it is the Government's objective that over the last four years the updating of the reference value will allow for convergence with the poverty threshold by strengthening the fight against poverty in an effort that represents an increase in expenditure of 8, 8 % compared to 2019. This is the largest ever increase in the ISC, the one that has proven to be the most effective social benefit in combating poverty, as evidenced by the 2, 2 percentage points reduction in the rate of poverty intensity, taking into account the number of citizens covered by it, between 2015 and 2018. We hope that, contrary to what they did in 2016 and 2018, the right-wing benches will not absolve again in the vote on this proposal. We also strengthen the Executive's concern at simplifying the process of access to this social benefit, particularly by disbursing it, and at the same time extending it to 3. the step to eliminate the impact of child income. We also reinforce the Socialist Party's concern about the revision of death benefit schemes. In fact, we have pointed out, in the proposal that we have tabled, our concern at the speeding up of the procedures in this case. We know that this set of guarantees helps families in the event of the death of a family member, since they will be affected by loss of income. We therefore believe that it is up to the Government to review these regimes and speed up these procedures, because we need to give a more effective response to the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u160	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 58. o -A. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u161	Mr. President, it is now 58. o-B!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to ensure free daycare for all children, as it is necessary to create a public daycare network, an option that can no longer be postponed, a commitment made by the CFP. They need children, they need families, and the PCP proposes it here. The existence of this response is an element of trust for those who wish to have children. The CFP, with this proposal, opens this path for children who attend public daycare or are covered by the cooperation system and whose family aggregate belongs to 1. the income step, regardless of the number of children, or the number of children. the income step and have two or more children. This is a fundamental step in ensuring the freeness and universality of this answer. The CFP does not exclude the freeness of day care for all children and therefore proposes that it be achieved by 2023, as well as proposes the creation of at least 100 000 jobs in day care centres or in an equivalent solution in the public sector to meet existing needs. It is also necessary to strengthen and extend the family allowance, to extend the 4th. the step beyond the six years and cover the five. it's 6. the steps, guaranteeing the family allowance to all children, because this is a right of them. These proposals presented by the CFP strengthen the rights of children and guarantee solutions for families in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u163	Mrs Diana Ferreira has just spoken in relation to the proposal for a Article 58. o-B and not 58. o -A, as I said initially. In connection with the same draft article, Mr Fernando José of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: One of the priorities of the Socialist Party is support for families, particularly with the promotion of better conditions for birth and parenthood. Two of the pillars of this priority necessarily go through the extension of the day care network and the creation of a complement to the frequency of day care. With this amendment, and approaching the proposal from the CFP, what we are doing is, once again, meeting a proposal which aims to improve a good budget, the best of recent years,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that will have a direct positive impact on the incomes of all Portuguese—of the Portuguese who reside in Lisbon and Porto, but also of those who reside in Braga, Fundão, Olhão and Setúbal. In short, it's a budget for people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u165	We turn to a proposal for Article 58. o-C — Revoking rule. Mr. José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the concessions that the Government has made in recent weeks was to accept that, with this State budget, there would be a new extraordinary increase in pensions, as there was, indeed, in the previous legislation, between €6 and €10. The Left Block records this advance for more than one and a half million pensioners, who will benefit from this extraordinary increase that the Government did not want to make when we started this process. We also note that the humiliation of telling an elderly person who only receives the CIS if he is willing to prosecute his children for lack of support will start to end this State budget. But the Left Block presents other proposals for pensioners who want to respond to the demanding injustices that still remain. We propose to increase the CSI's reference value by 60 € to make it correspond to the poverty threshold. We propose that long-term pensioners, or that at the age of 60 they already have at least 40 years of discounts, stop having cut the sustainability factor in their pensions, because today they would no longer have that cut, but those who have applied for a pension in the past still carry it. We propose that the long-term unemployed and the other pensioners stop applying this cut of the sustainability factor. We propose that shift workers be entitled to early retirement. We propose that more employees be hired for the National Pension Centre, so that people do not stay months and months waiting to respond to the pension requirement, as is the case today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u167	We turn to Article 59. o — Suspension of transition to booking, pre-invoicing or availability situations. Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD submits this proposal for amendment to Article 59. for the purpose of stabilising the security forces contingent and also for a matter of respect for our security forces and their agents. If it is true and if it is indeed cyclical the insufficiency of the number of security forces operating in the face of needs, we cannot accept that this insufficiency is combated at the expense of the agents who present themselves in a situation of pre-reform, switch to reservation or availability. Therefore, what we propose is simple: on the one hand, to reject this conditionant, i.e. not allowing the reforms to be dependent on admissions; on the other hand, to add a number to this article which sets out precisely the reverse, i.e. that rather than determining the reforms based on admissions, admissions are determined on the basis of the reforms. Basically, it is about solving the problem upstream rather than, as it does who doesn't know what you're doing, solving it downstream. The approval of this proposal will make it possible to set an annual quota, providing for the number of admissions to and from the reservation, pre-announcement or availability taking into account the needs of the operators of each security force and service and the renewal of their respective tables. In short, it is a proposal that will allow transparency in these numbers and stabilization in the security forces contingent and, on the other hand, that there is competence and programming in the management of that quota, knowing in advance the necessary numbers, rather than causing our agents to suffer from the reform. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u169	We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 59. o-B— Social protection of pregnant women, puerpera and lactating infants who integrate the security forces. Mrs Lina Lopes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Women who integrate security forces, when pregnant and as puerperous and lactating, cease to perform operational functions. thus, they stop taking the supplements of shift, patrol, picket or command, which may amount to one third of their yield. This is a reality that exists throughout the country, which contravenes labour laws and determines the loss of remuneration rights. In addition to totally contrary to labour laws, this reality discourages pregnancy and strongly opposes the national plan to promote birth, which we have spoken many times today. As we know, it is a challenge that the country must take on in the coming years. in these terms, the PSD proposes that these women have the right to receive a monthly allowance equivalent to the monthly average of the remuneration supplements they have received in the last two years. I invite all the other sides to follow this proposal, which aims to make a significant improvement both in practice and in current legislation. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Are you in doubt? Do you think women should not receive when they are pregnant or working? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u171	You have copied our proposal and now you are talking about it! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u172	The floor is Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration, Antero Luís.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer not to the proposal we have just discussed but to the previous one, which concerns the plan for the admission of security forces. In fact, we have a problem in the security forces that translates into aging. And this situation is only solved by a multiannual admission plan, which will be placed in this legislature in the hiring of 10 000 new security forces agents, i.e. 2500 per year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Why? Because we cannot put in crisis the operationality of the security forces and, therefore, what is at present at stake is the guarantee of security for the Portuguese. If, perhaps, all the people currently meeting conditions were to leave the security forces automatically, we would lose about 3,000 agents, which I think is none of the Members. Members, of course, would be in a position to vote. It is in the balance between a four-year plan and the weighting of exits that must continue to guarantee the Portuguese public security that the country requires. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u174	On the same subject, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: For the CFP there are two issues which, in terms of security forces and services, are fundamental to this State budget. One of these issues concerns the human and material resources and resources of security forces and services. There must be an admission of effective measures to strengthen their operational capacity, as human resources have been becoming impoverished over the past few years. Thus, it is necessary — and this is what the CFP proposes in this State budget — that there be an admission of 1500 effectives to the PSP and 1100 to the GNR and that the 106 elements which are on reserve for recruitment resulting from the last invitation to tender are recruited for the SEF. This is essential so that security forces and services can see their operational capacity restored to effectively carry out their missions. On the other hand, it is important to monitor the implementation of the infrastructure and equipment programming law. The other key issue concerns the satisfaction of the very fair socio-professional demands of security forces and services. in this sense, the CFP proposes in this State budget that once and for all be regulated the allocation of the risk allowance to these professionals, that payment be made of the supplements not paid during the vacation period with the retroactives that are due and that the professionals of the security forces and services that are pregnant are not affected by this fact, and that they may take the supplements they would take before they have become pregnant by the missions they could do. That is why the CFP presented this innovative proposal: to be paid to these women the supplements corresponding to the average of the last three months of operational activity. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u176	To intervene on the proposal for an addendum, the PSD, in Article 59. o-C — Equiparation of the age of access to the reform of firefighters from the framework of firefighters' associations and bodies to the regime of flying firefighters, Mr Duarte Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal that the PSD brings to the debate aims to extend the retirement scheme of firefighters flying and municipal, professional, firefighters who perform the same function, who are also full-time professionals but humanitarian associations and who have at least 30 years of effective service. It is a fundamental principle of justice: equal treatment of what is equal. It doesn't make sense that firefighters who perform their activity in saboteur bodies have a retirement scheme that recognizes them the effort and wear of years of professional firefighters, while others, who perform the same functions, which are even worse paid but which work in humanitarian associations, do not have the same right. I remember that relief throughout the country, not only in the summer but throughout the year, such as the hospital emergency, the INEM services, the response to fires and accidents, is mainly provided by these professional firefighters of volunteer associations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this must not be a matter of political and fracturing litigation in Parliament. At some stage in our democratic life, the parties were unanimous in recognizing the importance of this activity. That is why I appeal to this Parliament to approve this measure unanimously, because this would not only be a victory for this or that bench but, indeed, a sign of respect and honor for firemen, these men and women who so often help us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u178	On the same proposal, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u179	Mr President, Mr Duarte Marques, after more than half a dozen articles, we continue to have a succession of proposals for increased expenditure on the part of the PSD, and in a Budget we make choices. The government's choice was to bet on public services, it was to bet on investment, it was to give priority to the SNS. We made that choice. What you come here to propose, as the previous PSD bench did, is more than that, i.e. making more spending, reducing taxes and, at the same time, reducing deficit and debt. [[PSD protests.]] That is not the Budget, that is, as someone said on his bench a few months ago, an ‘arithmetic impossibility’. The Budget is a responsible document, it is a document that presents the conditions for future growth, and future growth undergoes a balance and a slight surplus. We do not want to have a budget surplus and at the same time lower taxes and increase expenditure. That is to want to have a cake and eat it, that is not to be serious, that is the way of the corrective budgets and it is the return to the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u180	We turn to Article 62. o — Economic revitalization and aid to the Third Island. Mr António Ventura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, during the last three State budgets, the Government maintained the same wording on the decontamination of soils and aquifers from the Praia da Vitória, but total decontamination did not occur because no money was seen or seen in this Budget. It is worse than this that we have a government that for four years has hidden a situation of contamination through human error. It was negligent because it did not alert the environment, nor human health, nor acted quickly. Responsibility cannot die single and we hope that the Public Prosecutor will call you this file. We must move from words to action, this budget must fulfil this obligation to make total decontamination. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Azorians are not Portuguese second but this government, by its actions, say they are. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u182	Let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 62 of the PS. o -A — Aid under the legalization of the American neighborhood of Santa Rita. Mrs. Lara Martinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, over the past five years it has been a healthy and fair practice to highlight the autonomous regions in the various proposals of the State budget. This was an unknown reality even to the former Socialist Government. This is also why this is not only the best budget for the last five years for the country, it is also the best budget for the Azores. It is a budget for deepening and progress. It is an in-depth budget for strengthening the relationship with autonomous regions and full compliance with regional finance law; deepening the participation of inter-linkages, strengthening State services, replacing submarine cables or developing strategic projects such as the Atlantic Defence Centre or the Air Center ( International Atlantic Research Centre ). It is also a Progress Budget by supporting 85 % of the damage caused by the passage of Hurricane Lourenço and is also a Progress Budget in the decontamination process with the new assumption of funds for the removal of contaminated land. However, we are surprised that the PSD will visit the contaminated land the following week and announce that we will move forward with the resolution of this problem. Our position, our action, will continue to be the effective defense and resolution of Third Island issues in the Azores. That is why we have tabled a set of amendments which include this initiative, so that the Government of the Republic will continue to support the process of the American neighborhood of Santa Rita and the importance of this initiative, in particular by responding to the 100 families living there. We hope to have the support of all parties to approve this proposal. We have put forward an initiative and we are still waiting for the PSD proposals on this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u184	We turn to Article 68. o — Madeira Central Hospital. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to call on all the parties, in particular the Members elected by Madeira, to enable not only the 50 proposals we have tabled but also all the 66 proposals for amendments to the budget relating to Madeira. This is a unique opportunity to solve many of the problems that concern Maderians and Porto-Saintes and to put our interest and Madeira first. We therefore hope that the Socialist Members elected by Madeira will not continue to vote against the region and that for the first time they will do as we do: they will vote for Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, support us, vote for the new hospital, demanding that the conditions for its financing be a new resolution to be adopted and a protocol to be held by the two governments. They vote to finally pay the debts of EUR 19 million, the drugs and the health care of the police and the GNR of Madeira. They vote for our university to have its funding increased; they vote for the reduction of interest rate and for the revision of the regional finance law. Vote for an insularity allowance to all central government officials; vote for the reduction of the IEC (special consumption tax) of the rum and review the regulations of the International Register of Madeira Ships. Vote for new PSP teams, technological investment and professional regularization of workers of RTP-Medeira. Vote for slaughterhouse workers, conservatives, PSP, GNR, SEF, customs workers, prison guards, judicial officials of Madeira. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, vote, but vote for Madeira! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u186	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems more or less clear that in this debate of the State budget, in the specialty, there is a huge and indisputable embarrassment of the PSD. This enormous and indisputable embarrassment of the PSD was very clear when Mr Afonso Oliveira presented his proposals at the beginning of this debate and recalled that he had 66 proposals for amendments. Come on in, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the 50 proposals from the PSD-Madeira have not been sponsored by the PSD. [[Protests by PSD MP Sara Madruga from Costa.]] In this unusual situation, three Members who have not been able to convince their parliamentary group are convinced that they will convince the whole House. [[Protests by Member Sara Madruga from Costa.]] However, this seems to be a huge irresponsibility, because if it is true that we are not concerned about the embarrassment in the PSD, we are very concerned because the Macedonians have stopped counting on the PSD Members, since they have not been able to find the formulas in this speciality debate so that their proposals could have the right votes to be voted in favour. Moreover, the best epitaph for this situation is the fact that the 50 proposals from the Madeira PSD have three guaranteed votes, plus nothing, three guaranteed votes, in a majority which had to be 116 votes. Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, if you're waiting for the PS to find those votes, you're wrong, you have to work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u188	You guys have to work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u189	... you have to make an agreement with your party and put Madeira and the projects to Madeira first. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u190	On the same proposal, Mr. Secretary of State Ricardo Mourinho Félix has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u191	Mr President, I would like to say that the proposal for a State Budget presented to this House includes many projects, some emblematics, driven by the populations of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, such as the central hospital of Madeira. It does not, of course, include everything that you have. Members would like, because the State budget, as I said, is not a petition. As regards the interest paid by Madeira in connection with the loan made to the Autonomous Region, a reduction has already been made last year and there are also guarantees for Madeira and the Azores this year that allow refinancing at a much lower cost. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u192	Let's move on to Article 70. o — Provision of public services in the regulated sectors of transport in autonomous regions. Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the Socialist Party, especially on behalf of the Members elected by the Socialist Party in the Azores circle, wanted to begin by reaffirming the statement that we have continually made of the fundamental role of the universities integrated into the higher public education system and that are based in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, for their role in regional development, from the knowledge they produce and which they place at the service of the region, for their role in social and territorial cohesion and, above all, for what they mean in terms of equal opportunities in access to higher education, particularly of young people living in those autonomous regions. One of the difficulties that has been addressed by both universities which I refer to relates to the access of these public institutions to national operational programmes of decentralized management within the framework of the Community Support Framework. With the proposal that we present, this is the issue that we intend to resolve, opening doors to an important source of funding for island universities, also allowing them to be charged to projects that will be financed a set of various expenses, which will certainly have a very significant and positive impact on the development of their activities. Finally, I wanted to say that the Socialist Party has maintained its position and has sought to ensure that it is balanced, reasonable and, above all, responsible. We don't have one position when we're in opposition and another when we're in position. We have been consistent and we are sure that the proposal we put forward will be a very important contribution to island universities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u194	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor on this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, Mr President, to bring up the issue of transport and mobility, which is part of this article. As you will understand, transport and mobility are extremely important in an island region such as Madeira, whether sea transport or air transport. The Social Democratic Party once again submits proposals to facilitate air transport between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira. We insist that the Socialist Party comply with its word and accompany us, by regulating the legislation that rightly causes residents and students to pay only the fare corresponding to that right and not the total price of the air ticket to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which are exorbitant prices on account of the government. We also call for lower airport rates for Madeira and Porto Santo airports to make the two airports more competitive and to create more slots at Lisbon airport so that there will be more flights to Madeira's Autonomous Region so that more flights, more companies and more competitiveness will come down. Finally, Mr President, regarding maritime transport, the Socialist Party and the PS leader last summer went to the Autonomous Region of Madeira to make a promise to all Madeirans that, from this year onwards and throughout the year, there would be a ferry between Funchal and Lisbon. This promise is not being fulfilled by the Socialist Party, because in this State budget it is going to 2021 what you promised for 2020. It is a lack of speech, it is a lack of commitment to what they promised in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the party that makes the most proposals for the Autonomous Region of Madeira is ours, but Mr Carlos Pereira is very disciplined! We present 50 proposals and you present only 2, less than the Portuguese Communist Party, which has no member elected by the Autonomous Region of Madeira in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u196	We deserve it! That's our credit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u197	Let us turn to the proposed addendum of Article 71 of the PSD. o -A— Exceptional scheme for the exemption of social security contributions on the islands of Flores and Corvo. Mr. Paulo Moniz, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on October 2, the Azores were devastated by the storm Lorenzo. The islands of the Flowers and the Crow have seen their commercial port of the Lajes das Flores strongly affected. On our initiative we proposed an amendment allowing the creation of an exceptional scheme for exempting social security contributions from employers on the islands of Flores and the Corvo. This exceptional measure falls within the competence of the Government of the Republic, is provided for in the contribution code and is justified by the disaster and by the serious consequences for the economy of the islands of the Flowers and the Crow. We hope that this proposal will be accepted in the name of relative justice. I recall that, in the case of the great fires that devastated the country, this measure was adopted, so it does not make sense nor is it understood that, in the case of the Azores, it is not. In order to finish, and also with regard to the University of Azores, we are surprised that the measures we have heard here propose, of altering access to the tables, are only from 2021 and no longer this year. It is that its effectiveness this year would be a coherent attitude and that would give veracity to the announced intention to assist the University of the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u199	We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 72. o -A — Rate of right of passage and occupation of ground. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u200	Mr President, this proposal for an addendum submitted by the Greens under Rule 72. o -The aim is to restore a grueling injustice that has been dragged down for a few years and that continues to persist. We refer, on the one hand, to the municipal rate of right of passage and, on the other, to the municipal rate of occupation of basement. In fact, the creation of these rates was oriented and aimed at focusing on infrastructure companies. It follows that, through various manoeuvres, these companies end up'strengthening' the rates for consumers, reducing companies in this area to simple intermediaries between consumers and authorities. However, this logic completely distorts the reason for these rates, irrevocably penalises consumers and benefits operators. In fact, it was precisely for the purpose of putting an end to this deep injustice and of preventing these fees from being paid by consumers that the State Budget for 2017 has made it clear that the collection of fees is made to the infrastructure-owned company. However, despite the clarity that the law that approved the State Budget for 2017 brought to this issue, Decree-Law No. 25 / 2017, which establishes the rules for the implementation of the State Budget, came, would, in an unqualified and incomprehensible way, refer the issue to a change to the legal framework. The fact is that at the moment it is the consumer who pays what should be paid by the companies operators. For this reason, the Greens submit this proposal, making it clear that the municipal rate of transit rights and the municipal rate of subsoil occupation are charged to companies holding the infrastructure network that occupy the public space and cannot, under any circumstances, be impacted on users or consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u201	Let us turn to Article 73. o — Variable participation in income tax for natural persons. Mr António Gameiro, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, the State budget for 2019 transferred EUR 165 million to the municipalities. The State budget for 2020 provides for an increase of more than 10 % of this money to EUR 278 million, the largest ever transfer to local authorities. We have made this proposal because we want to ensure that all municipalities benefit from an increase in transfers from the State budget to the previous year, including to that end the one in Article 35 ( 3 ). that of the Local Finance Act provides for a surplus in relation to the use of the transfer mechanism. I recall that this year the Government plans to transfer EUR 2148 million to local authorities through the Financial Balance Fund. And this amendment implies partial changes to the funds, but not the overall amount of government participation in State taxes. The proposed amendment, which also provides for the participation of municipalities in the IRS, ends up reflected in the wording of Article 73. the, to increase the variable participation of municipalities in this IRS, due to the amount that is returned to the populations resident in each municipality. The convergence period 2019 - 2021 reinforces the transfers that have already begun to comply with the Local Finance Act between 2015 and 2019, and in this convergence period there will be a working group that will deepen it, so that this convergence period in 2021 is fully fulfilled, from the point of view of the government's obligation and commitment to local authorities in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u203	We turn to Article 83. o — Financial transfers under decentralization and delegation of powers. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Government continues to fail to comply with the Framework Law on the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal authorities, which leaves no room for doubt. The amounts to be transferred to local authorities to finance the exercise of new powers are required to be entered in the State budget through the Financing Fund for Decentralisation. The Government says, in this regard, that EUR 295 million will be transferred by 2020. Only that this is not strictly anywhere in the proposal for a State budget law. In the meantime, late and late hours, in an emissary manner, the government distributed the information map of decentralization. It's just that, sirs. Members, this map is not part of the State budget. This map will not be voted on. It is only as a political commitment. It's not known whether or not it's going to be fulfilled. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u205	We turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 83. o -A— Strengthening of non-teaching staff in public school. Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the lack of officials in schools is not an occasional problem which can be resolved with discretionary authorizations, on a case-by-case basis, by Mr. Minister of Finance or Mr. Minister of Education. The lack of employees in schools is a structural problem, because the portfolio that assigns employees, operational assistants and technical assistants to schools is poorly dimensioned. And because of being badly sized, there are schools, like a basic school in Évora, where students with special educational needs cannot go to school because there are no employees, and there are schools, such as the High School Dr. José Afonso, in the Sixal, where 1300 students only give a little more than a dozen employees. These cases multiply and have a solution, which is the review of the relationship portal, so that it can suit the existence of libraries, laboratories, free spaces, gymnasiums in schools, finally, of equipment that all schools need, as well as employees, to be able to open the doors every day. This is what the Left Block proposes: a review of the portfolio of ratios, according to these criteria, as the Ministry itself has already admitted is necessary and we now expect to be approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u207	On this subject, Mrs Alexandra Tavares de Moura, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget is based not only on the fulfilment of electoral promises and the Government's programme but also on its sustainability. This budget assumes, as I said here, the value of work in public functions. Motiated workers will give better response to public services, which are the only ones able to guarantee equal opportunities. Fitting the ratios to the needs, to the new realities, to the specificities of the groups of schools and schools not grouped, obviously considering their educational projects is our design. To improve the education system is to suit, adapt, adjust ratios to changes, to new needs. It is a process of continuous improvement. The government has already committed itself and will comply. Let's go over the ratios. We want a more efficient, more effective, more agile, more public and more inclusive system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-03.u209	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of what was planned to be discussed today. [[I recall that tomorrow the plenary session will take place at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes and that there will be three points: firstly, the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary, after its debate to be held this afternoon in the Committee on Budgets and Finance; secondly, the vote on these same rules; and thirdly, the continuation of the debate in the speciality of the Proposal for a Law No 5/XIV/1.a (GOV) — Approves the State budget for 2020.]] Good afternoon to all of you and until tomorrow. The meeting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 30 minutes.]]
