ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let us begin our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The first item on our agenda is, as you know, political statements, but before that, I give the floor to Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, I shall inform you of the non-admission by the Bureau of the Bill No 482 / XIV / 1. a ( CH). They entered the Bureau and were admitted the following diplomas: Bill Nos 57 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ), 58 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 59 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; Draft Law Nos 530 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 531 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 532 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 533 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 534 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 535 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 536 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 537 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 538 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 539 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 540 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 541 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 542 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 543 / XIV / 2. a ( CH), 544 / XIV / 2. a (PEV), 545 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 546 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) ; Parliamentary appraisal No 31 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 664 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 665 / XIV / 2. a ( IL), 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 667 / XIV / 2. a ( BE), 668 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 669 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 670 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 671 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ), 672 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), 673 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) and 674 / XIV / 2. a ( IL). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u3	We are going to get on the agenda, the first of which is political declarations. The first political declaration lies with the PSD Parliamentary Group, for which Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Six years after the resolution and with 7 billion euros spent with BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) / New Bank, this financial institution continues to fall at the Portuguese table, until we are all, we all paid those 7 billion. It is unanimous that this problem has the genesis in a police case, followed by a resolution, which was not perfect, and a sale by the state, which is confirmed today ruinous to public safes. The perplexities of the Portuguese and all of us in this House are such that we have recently approved the constitution of a new parliamentary committee of inquiry, which will evaluate these and other issues. But there are actions that we can take at the same time and which can be useful for the clarification of the truth and even assist the work of the committee of inquiry, which will hardly start its real activity before December. In recent years, the New Bank has submitted, following losses with the sale of assets, invoices payable under a guarantee that the Socialist Government had previously failed to exist and that it was confirmed to be real. The worst thing is that all invoices were paid without apparently being analyzed and confirmed if the payment was due. This is the case, incomprehensible to any common citizen, of losses on the sale of real estate against the value recorded in the bank, precisely at the time of the increase in real estate market prices throughout the national territory. Because this reality is surprising to all, the government itself called for an audit. And here was a new mistake. It is true that it was the Banco de Portugal that indicated Deloitte to carry out this audit, but it is also true that, in a market as small as ours and with as many thousands of operations to analyze, it would be difficult for any of the large audit / consulting companies not to be involved in at least one of the operations under consideration. A public institution should soon have resorted to such evidence of independence, suitability and recognized and unquestionable competence for carrying out this audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u6	And the first of these institutions, the one that jumps before any citizen, among others that we could also refer to, is the Court of Auditors, either by the above, or by the quality of their reports, and by the critical and independent analysis that it always does, hurting those who hurt.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u8	That was not the way the government went. But this is the path we can still take today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, time is urgent and, in seven or eight months' time, the New Bank may wish to receive the EUR 1000 million remaining in this public guarantee. An audit with this magnitude and with these consequences is difficult and time-consuming, so there is no time to lose. The Assembly of the Republic may then wait for January to determine a public body, in particular the Court of Auditors, which develops this audit, but today if it is the broad understanding in the House, which for example the Court of Auditors has to carry it out, we can indicate this in particular when the Court itself has confirmed that it has competence to move forward with that audit. And all this, because the conclusions of it must be known in good time before the state passes the next check. We know that state contracts must and must be respected and fulfilled. If all the value is really due, it must be paid, and here we will be to evaluate the goodness, seriousness and naivety of the contract that the State has signed. If the value is not due, payment of the missing tranche should be avoided, and an attempt should be made to recover, in the competent bodies, what has eventually been paid more. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be practical. More than throwing stones at each other and continuing to transfer money to the New Bank, what the Portuguese demand is that no more than a penny be transferred—no more! — if this is not due. And then the responsibility for the commitments that the State has made is shifted. This is our purpose and we wish, Mr. Members, who join the PSD in this action, to ensure that a public entity, including the Court of Auditors, can do what all Portuguese expect of it. It's a national requirement. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u9	Mr President, the Bureau records the registration of six Members to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u10	Mr President, I shall respond first to three and then to the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u11	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira, DOS Verdes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I would like to begin by complimenting you on the subject which brings the debate, because the New Bank, which is not only a problem at present, is still a current issue and unfortunately for the worst reasons. In fact, we are talking about a problem that has been dragging six years ago, the same is saying that we are talking about a problem that was born with the PSD/CDS-PP government. Moreover, the PSD/CDS-PP government not only created a problem but also did not solve it. And, in view of the accumulation of strange situations and even the burdens that taxpayers continue to bear, the Greens also believe that it is necessary to understand the causes of the losses of the New Bank charged to the Resolution Fund, to detect the decisions that were at their origin and to identify the political leaders for these decisions. It was also for that reason that the Greens agreed with the establishment of a committee of inquiry to the New Bank. But, as you know, the committee of inquiry, despite the importance we attach to it, especially so that the blame will not die again untiringly, will not solve the essentials of the problem. In our perspective, the main problem lies in the need to place the New Bank at the service of the development of the country, of our economy, at the service of the interests of the Portuguese. But this will only be possible when the New Bank is in the hands of the State, in the hands of those who pay it, in fact. In the meantime, the problem will continue and the Portuguese will continue to bear the costs of this impasse. But, Mr. Member, you will certainly remember the words of the then Minister of State and Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque, when in 2015 he said that the option of the PSD Government / CDS-PP would not bring costs to taxpayers. It follows that from that point on, the costs for taxpayers have not ceased to increase. What I am asking, Mr Duarte Pacheco, is: six years after these statements, what is the assessment of this conviction of the Minister of State and Finance of the PSD/CDS-PP government, when, in fact, the honourable Member even acknowledges, as today, in his speech, that the costs continue to fall at the Portuguese table? It was important to know, six years later, what evaluation is that Mr. Duarte Pacheco makes statements by the then Minister of State and Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque, stating that there was no cost to taxpayers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u13	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, in the debate of the New Bank the position of the NAP has been more than clear. It will certainly not be for the NAP that the New Bank will have a new injection of public money, but we do not enter adventures and experiments like others. For us, the essential thing is that there is an urgent renegotiation of sales agreements to clarify everything that is not clear at the moment. Without this renegotiation we will not be able to prevent capital injection via the Resolution Fund, without this entailing the responsibility of the State in the future, which may actually have a higher cost than that of the injection. Furthermore, it is not quite clear that, due to the health crisis, the New Bank cannot claim a capital injection beyond the contract and only a renegotiation can in fact prevent it. Moreover, we have just heard the left referring to the real hypothesis that they want a nationalisation of the New Bank. But without renegotiating, there is clearly the real risk of the State becoming a shareholder of the New Bank next year, something that we believe the PSD does not follow. Without the renegotiation, the New Bank is able to increase the salaries of administrators, which, in our view, is absolute immorality. Without the renegotiation, the State could hardly be held responsible for the damage caused by the public record because of the vicious and ruinous management it has shown. We already knew that Lone Star was an abutre background and we stayed, a few months ago, also knowing that it was a matrix background, with connections to tax havens. Therefore, without the renegotiation of funds and sales agreements, the discussion on non-injection of capital in the New Bank does not go beyond a mere media showoff that I gain no leads to the balance of public accounts and the taxpayers' purse. The NAP has already brought — and we must remember — the vote on this renegotiation of the New Bank's sales agreements twice. Mr President, I should like to remind you that in May the PSD voted against and in July it abstained. Mr President, we also recall that a few weeks ago the PSD joined the PS and transformed a PAN proposal towards the Government, through the IGF (General Financial Inspection ), to conduct an independent audit for the sale of GNB Life, but now the PSD is in fact already in a hurry in the audit. Mr President, we ask you whether this is how the PSD finally joins the concerns of the NAP. In the next State Budget, will it serve the interests of the country and vote in favour of this NAP proposal or will it continue to be tough with the words with Lone Star and with the PS, but light at the time of the votes?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u15	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u16	I really am concluding, Mr President. When will the PSD turn from words to action and vote? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u17	I have the floor in this first set of requests for clarification, Mr Duarte Alves, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco, after two weeks we discussed the draft resolution of the CFP on public control of the New Bank and last week we approved the establishment of a committee of inquiry, the PSD brings back the debate of the new Bank, which is of great relevance. The consequences of what has happened in the BES, an authentic portrait of a monopoly group, its high-finance links and the governments of the right-wing policy at its service, but also the consequences of political options taken by different governments in relation to the situation of the BES and the New Bank. Mr President, because you talked about the resolution with the euphemism you used, saying it was not perfect, I sincerely believe it is time for the PSD to realize exactly that the resolution made was fraudulent. It was told to the Portuguese that it was possible to solve a bank with 12 million euros of liabilities, in its international holding, with the 4, 9 billion euros that were in the funds of the troika when that was not possible! Maria Luís Albuquerque knew, Passos Coelho knew, the Governor of Banco de Portugal, Carlos Costa, also knew. So this resolution was not perfect, no, and actually lied to the Portuguese. At that time, the CFP argued that it should consider the hypothesis of nationalisation, that the Banco de Portugal at the time estimated that it would cost EUR 7 billion. In the meantime, we've spent a lot more and the bank isn't ours. at that time, Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque refused even to evaluate this hypothesis. After this fraudulent resolution, the PS government decided to deliver the bank at zero cost to Lone Star, with a public guarantee of EUR 3.9 billion and we are already very close to that value. With regard to audits and fact-finding committees, we do not hinder any action to be known, but we believe that Portuguese cannot be misled by these measures which, in essence, do not go to the essential issue. It is on this essential issue that we would like to question the PSD. At the time we are already close to the EUR 9 billion buried in the New Bank, we want to know whether the bank should be placed in the public sphere or whether the state pays, but it does not send, which, by its position, I think is what the PSD and other parties have defended.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u19	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u20	Mr President, I conclude by asking whether the PSD agrees with the CFP that the Banco de Portugal must have its own means of audit without being dependent on large multinationals and consultants. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u21	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your speeches on what I have said little have said, because unfortunately they are at the worst what people expect from Parliament, that is, that we spend our lives trying to throw stones at each other instead of going to the bottom of the questions and looking for solutions. [[PSD applause.]] If I wanted to go along that line, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I could ask you the following: but who approved the last State budget, which had the money there for the New Bank? It wasn't the PAN? [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, saying that the problem of the New Bank was born with the PSD government is as serious as saying that this pandemic was born with the Government of the Socialist Party. Do you understand? It is something that has nothing to do with governance and that happens at the same time that someone is ruling. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Duarte Alves, your solution is always the same: even if it is more expensive it doesn't matter, nationalisation is always an option for everything, even if from then on it costs taxpayers more and more money. That is not our solution, because we prefer a solution that can be less expensive and that is better for the economy. I am leaving the challenge here again—they will no longer answer today, but I am looking forward to being able to say it publicly: what do you have against the fact that a public entity, such as the Court of Auditors, can do an audit in time and hours before the last injection can be on the table and that we will transfer more EUR 1000 million to the New Bank? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u23	If you have nothing to say - clearly so that this signal reaches the legal person and so that the Court of Auditors can immediately initiate its activity and begin to audit the accounts of the New Bank. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u24	Mr Duarte Pacheco, three further requests for clarification follow. The first is Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u25	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, this is not a resolution that was not perfect. We are going to be objective and objective: the resolution was a disaster, because the damage was not incurred, because the fiction of a clean bank was created and because then the Minister of Finance said — it must be assumed — that the State would not pay any damage to the New Bank, and that was objectively false. However, it is true that the sale was ruinous and that the same false promise was made to the Portuguese at this ruinous sale. I'm sorry the PSD allowed the sale. It could have prevented this sale by voting in the Assembly of the Republic. I am also sorry that the PSD gave way to the proposal that the new injections should be approved in the Assembly of the Republic. But we agree with the following: it is not worth waiting for the remaining injections to be made to then come and make the damage archaeology. If Parliament has the power to stop, now, the new injections and negotiations that Lone Star is doing with the New Bank, then it has to stop these negotiations. That's our responsibility! We therefore argue that the Resolution Fund must be immediately replaced because it does not give us assurances of confidence in the monitoring of the accounts of the New Bank. We therefore advocate a public and independent audit with a single objective: to stop the Lone Star negotiations at the New Bank at the cost of public funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u27	That is the only goal of the Left Block. It's not about asking Lone Star for favors, it's about stopping what Lone Star is doing at the New Bank. If the Court of Auditors needs signals from the Assembly of the Republic to start immediately an audit that protects the public interest in the management that Lone Star makes of the New Bank, then it can rely on all the support of the Left Block. We have already said it and we continue to say it: we want a public and independent audit that defends the public interest and taxpayers against Lone Star abuse in the management of the New Bank. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u28	I now give the floor to Mr Miguel Costa Matos of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, Portuguese really want to know why they continue to pay the New Bank. It is a loan to the Resolution Fund, of course we will reopen it. But why do we put the money there? On this point, the PSD, in this political statement, did an exercise of agnotology, i.e., of the production of ignorance and confusion so that no one understands anything. For that, they count on the creation of three myths. The first is that this is all the fault of the sale that you didn't make in 2015 when there were three good proposals to do it. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u30	In 2017, the only alternative to selling was the liquidation of the same bank at an estimated cost by the European Commission of EUR 14 billion, i.e. three times more than the money that could be put there. The sale was actually made for the best offer. Who says it is not us, but the European Commission. The second myth is that the fault of all this comes with the sale and the contingent capital mechanism, which pays the damages.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u31	Mr President, I apologize for this little interruption. I'm asking the ladies. Members standing, practically from the beginning of the sitting, to leave the Chamber or, then, to sit down. Thank you very much. You may continue, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, it is not the quota capital mechanism, but it is the fact that they only discovered these bad assets at that time, transforming a solid portfolio into a bad, illegal and old portfolio, as António Ramalho says. All this since the New Bank was no longer audited by the firm where the two main architects of the 2014 resolution were members, one of them the ex-Chief of Vitor Gaspar Office. We are paying for the lack of good management and rigour in the procedures of the New Bank, we are paying the systematically incorrect assessments of the New Bank's buildings and we are paying the result of the rush of getting rid of bad assets faster and logically cheaper than expected. The third myth is that it is possible to talk about the problems of the New Bank without talking about the resolution that created them. Since the resolution of the New Bank, we have already consumed half of the money that the State has put there, through losses that were already foreseeable since the 2013 and 2014 audits. Mr President, last week we approved a parliamentary inquiry to the New Bank. The PSD voted against the Socialist Party's proposal because it does not want to revisit the resolution. Why, sir? Why do they want to ignore that they have sold cats for hare, a resolution for a complication and that have since covered and dragged them? Why don't you want the truth? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u33	It is the turn of Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group to request clarification. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Duarte Pacheco. in this exercise that we witnessed once again, which I would say is a pass-in-the-blank, I would like to start by remembering that I have heard here that the problems were born with this or that government. The problems in this matter were not born with a government; the problems were born in a bank called Banco Espírito Santo. I think it would be nice if we were all aware of that. With the irresolved problems that existed in this bank—and that were not created by any government, although there may have been one or another politician who had been acting— it is important to realize that there are fundamental steps: the issue of resolution; the most important issue, from my point of view, of defining the perimeter; the question of sale; and the question of supervision of sales and its assets. These are the four fundamental steps in explaining what is now happening. It is impossible to answer what is happening now, which is the money being spent, without answering an essential question. I would therefore like to tell you that I understand the suggestion made by the Court of Auditors. For my part, I believe that the sooner it gets better, because it is not possible to continue to have this discussion without answering a fundamental question about the assets to which the resolution fund responds. of the two: or these goods are in fact being sold out by the New Bank — and this has to stop and the money you have already answered has to go back to the public sphere — or they are being sold well and were poorly accounted for with a value that was not real and did not exist. This is the fundamental question that an audit has to answer. This audit that we have received does not answer this fundamental question, says only that there is no evidence of any related parties, but also that there is no evidence of the control of the related parties. Anyway, nothing concludes. Therefore, with regard to everything that is to come to a conclusion on this matter, the CDS will of course be in favour. It remains to be said that this audit is taking place, and well, on many of the losses for which the Portuguese have already responded, and these losses are being credited. I believe that — without wishing to repeat the BES Commission, but above all the Box Commission — we should not let them go blank.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u35	You have the floor to answer, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, allow me to stress what we realize we have in common, i.e. the will to have made an audit that effectively evaluated what was the last few years and the behaviour of the administration of the New Bank as regards the alienation of credits and real estate, with such widespread losses that then we were all called to pay them. That's positive! But there is something that distinguishes us, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, which is the fact that the honourable Member has already reached the conclusion: it is to prevent the injection. I say the state must be a good person. The State has signed a contract and if the audit says that the goods were sold for the fair price, then we have to pay and then make the political assessment of who signed that contract. What contract was signed without realizing that it would have such serious consequences for the public record and for all Portuguese? It cannot be said that the State should, but does not pay. Well, I know there's someone who says you shouldn't pay the debts. That's not our position. Our position is very clear: what is due must be paid, we all have to be good people, as citizens and as states. We therefore believe that this audit should move forward as quickly as possible, so that its conclusions will come in good time to assess whether the last instalment should be paid or not. This is not about banning it if it is fair and due to what the State has hired, it is about doing what is due. And, as I say, then we all do the political evaluation of who signed that contract. Another thing, quite different, is to think as follows, Mr. Miguel Matos: it is that when the sale was made we did not know the volume of the toxic assets that were included there. That's trying to call the Portuguese stupid! You know why? Because anyone who wanted a guarantee of EUR 3, EUR 9 billion had strong evidence that there were toxic assets of this value. Otherwise, why would it be EUR 3, EUR 9 billion? Why not two, nine billion? Why not 6 billion? Why not 500 million? Why not 7 billion? Why is it 3, 9 billion euros? And then, then, the assets beat true, true with 3, 9 billion euros. You're throwing sand at whose eyes? Then, yes, they wanted to throw sand into the eyes of the Portuguese and deceive the Portuguese. Perhaps that is why you, on behalf of the PS, have not spoken on the main issue that I brought here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u37	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. We will all give a positive signal so that the Court of Auditors can make this audit as soon as possible and so that it can do it with the competence and independence that are recognised to it, and in good time, before we make the evaluation of the money that is missing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u39	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u40	To defend the honour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u41	On what question, Mrs Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u42	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco has come to understand that the NAP has enabled capital injection into the New Bank and is missing the truth by stating that - since the NAP voted against that capital injection...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u43	Excuse me, Mrs. Member, I haven't given you the floor yet. I was just asking what motivated your request for a word to defend honor. Now, yes, you have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u44	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, in suggesting that the NAP enabled capital injection into the New Bank, has failed the truth. The NAP voted against — it is important that this be clarified — Article 116 ( 1 ). the proposal for a government law. It did not in any way allow that capital injection. This has been translated into the final wording in Article 154 ( 1 ). o. As for the PSD, we regret that we have abstained from the NAP proposal for the audit, but we are obviously pleased that, finally, we have come to the meeting of what has long been a demand for the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u45	Mr Duarte Pacheco, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, far from me wanting to offend the honour of you. What I said was something completely different from what the honourable Member said, and the honourable Member knows perfectly well. The honourable Member has made it possible for the Budget and had planned to transfer funds to the New Bank. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u47	If that was such a central issue for you, if it were a matter of life or death, I had not voted in favour of the Budget, I had voted against it. Any Portuguese knows, then, that it wasn't the way I said it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u48	I have the floor to give the second political statement of the day, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The political statement that the Left Block brings here today is precisely on an item on the agenda — the election of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the CCDRs ( Co-ordination and Regional Development Committees ), which takes place on 13 October and which deserves, on the part of the Left Block, strong criticisms as well as the basis as the process. Our criticism has three points. First of all, after all, what is the point of this election? Start by perverting the operating reasons of the CCDR body. Let us not forget that these are peripheral bodies of the Central Administration as deconcentrated organs of the State, and so continue to be. They are not given new powers, nor are they the creation of a new body. The legal nature of the committees will continue to bind them to the unconcentrated administration of the State. Move so that everything will stay the same. Whoever elects has no control power. These committees remain trapped in the government's orbit, which even has the power to resign its chairman. We have passed an administrative appointment to a party agreement appointment, transforming regional planning and management bodies into extensions of interests biased in the balance of forces in the area of the city. In fact, this indirect election is a simulation of decentralization. The decision on who they are and what they do will remain the central government. This election is a « farce» — I subscribe to this interpretation, but I am not your author, but the President of the House of Visau, of the PSD, who reinforces criticism, saying that it is a process that little or nothing has to be democratic. Secondly, as far as regionalisation is concerned, it is important to remember that the PS and PSD agreed to appoint a committee to design the future of decentralization. in extensive and rigorous work, this committee pointed to administrative regionalisation. Recent examples of the lack of regional articulation in the fight against COVID-19 have shown the need for this subnational and supramunicipal organ. Even so, António Costa and Rui Rio, who signed their conclusions, were unable to mobilize to do so, preferring to invent and wake up this fallacy of decentralization. It is clear that, in this purpose, they are faithful to the guidelines of the anti-regionalist conviction Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, who has hastened to promulgate the diploma as an apology to the dangers of regionalization. Since the initial version, which in the first stage received the PSD critique, this election was presented as a significant step towards regionalization, as a way to deconcentrate power by the regions. Soon it was realized that it was not a mistake — until the words of the guardian minister were in that sense. The Minister said: « We are talking about the change in the form of the designation of the holder of a direct State administration service to ensure increased legitimacy; another thing is regionalization». And Mr President of the Republic also said this: "It is a step towards bringing the cities closer to the coordination and regional development committees, but that is one thing, regionalizing is another thing. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is precisely because we believe that this PS / PSD issue is intended to encapsulate the regionalisation that we require the cessation of validity during the debate of Parliamentary assessment. Thirdly, another aspect that is presented to us as a kind of great civilizational advancement is that of democracy. It is a triumph of conviction: to democratize the CCDRs through the electoral act. This argument has also gathered supporters — the electoral college of autarchs voting for the election of its regional representatives. Voting always has a democratic connotation. But vote on whom? It is now clear that democracy has also fallen on the ground: to vote in candidates « cooked» by the summits of PS and PSD partisans, without any listening to the authorships of their own parties, «the president is ours and the vice-president is yours », taken the vote in accordance with the number of electors in a kind of regionalist Tordesils Treaty. This party agreement of Central Block, with personal complaints between suitors, and which has so far tightened the remodeling of State Secretaries, is limited to announcing candidates, without any notice of criteria, nor the exposure of an action programme. This is a centralizing vision of the exercise of power, which, in the name of the hypothetical decentralization, binds the electorate to the spirit of this vision. Many autoarchs have so pronounced themselves—up to a request that we have sent to all the presidents of the country we have obtained these answers. The President of the City Hall of Porto says he will not vote because it is a nomination and not an election. In fact, the re-enactment of the Central Block has chosen the candidates/applications to the President and the vice-president, in accordance with the balance of forces of local power, in each region and in the whole national, according to the majority implementation. Thus, we have the North and the nearest center of PSD, Lisboa and Tejo Valley and Algarve closest to PS. The exception is the Alentejo, where we have two candidates for party disagreement. In the middle of all this, it is the legislation itself that removes the possibility of plurality, because those who are not proposed by the parties - see - how many local movements belonging to citizens exist throughout the country with councillors, municipal assemblies and elected chamber presidents, in particular - can only be presented as a candidate with 15% tenderers. Taking as an example CCDR-North, a candidate would have to have 657 subscribers, which makes this legitimate right impossible. This attachment to democracy, which effectively removes the elective capacity to those who are not covered by the parties, is an attack on the movements of citizens who have proliferated throughout the country, particularly during the elections. In order to complete the « dream team » there we have the Deputy President of the Government, who is ironically said to result in an interministerial election. The personal confidence of anyone is not at stake, but the transparency of the process. We agree that it is people who will manage millions of euros. As the electoral scenario is set up, we are faced with a brand new intention with old and vicious methods of democratic consolidation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u50	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u51	I shall conclude, Mr President. The voters are held to the dictates of those selected for election, before an effective appointment that goes from administrative to partisan. Those who are pleased with the bosses are chosen to be ordered to vote by the municipal subordinates. This vote in the ballot ends up as a referendum for ratification of the personal choices of the 'owners' of the territorial power. If this is the democracy invoked as a great mark of the singularity of the process, we are talking. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u52	Mr President, six Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u53	I will respond to three blocks, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u54	First of all, Mr José Cancela Moura of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it would only surprise this political statement who did not know that the Bloc is a centralist party, called for the protest. It would only surprise this narrative who didn't know that the Bloc is a party without an autorchic implementation, which devalues the proximity policy. It would only surprise this position that I didn't know the Block only criticized and never had the courage to take on the responsibility to decide. We accept that the diploma can even give rise to various interpretations, according to each one's convictions, but, in essence, this law has an undeniable objective, which is the process of democratization of the operation of the CCDRs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u57	In fact, the law introduces more democracy, from the outset by electing a number of candidates and also confers greater proximity, because the appointment by the government is replaced by the vote of the autarchs of each plan region. What does the country have to lose with the approval of this diploma? And what does the Left Block have to lose with that? After all, this time, you're against what? May the government continue to appoint the president? That the autarchs don't have the right to vote? That there is no democratic choice?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u58	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u59	To us, the Left Block does not deceive us with this fallacious rhetoric. The fact that two parties establish an agreement to submit a candidacy does not prevent others from doing the same or any citizen from proposing to the place! See the case of the Alentejo CCDR, which is an example of this, whose election will be disputed by two candidates. Do a favor to this House: read the law without the ideological filter that takes away your reasoning and you will see that your protest works in a huge misunderstanding. Why is the Block not going to vote, instead of protesting?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u60	Go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u61	Why didn't you promote a candidacy? The answer, as it is customary, will be of convenience, but I anticipate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u62	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because the Bloc represents an orthodox left, disguised as a progressive, who has a bad relationship with democracy itself. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u64	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr José Maria Cardoso who brings here a serious and serious matter. In fact, what is happening with the amendment of CCDR legislation is serious, it is very serious indeed. It is worth remembering that the decentralization that the government has promised, and that, yes, it must be done, because this is the way in which there is a greater approach to the population and that better public services are being made, is the shift of competence to municipalities. I would like to point out that the passage of these competences in the fields of health, education and social action, which are those which, in fact, involve money and money and which have a greater impact on people's lives, has been postponed by government decision. Pure and simply not made. Instead, the Government resolves to do a process that is basically the following: instead of being the government to appoint the presidents of the CCDRs, they are appointed by the « central block », through the local PS and PSD apparatus. from my point of view, it is a change to worse, and even to much worse. Many autoarchs have already explained that they have not been heard in the choices, that the newsletters of the applications are already filled. In fact, there were even titles to say that the government would take advantage of changing some state secretaries. Therefore, we already see the proximity of the populations that was being made with this. One author said: « This is not elections». They are not, in fact, and in most cases there was only one candidate. Therefore, this process will not bring any advantages of proximity. It does not bring any advantage to the citizens, on the contrary, it brings disadvantages. This is a process of appointing political commissioners of the central bloc, only. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u66	To request clarification, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Maria Cardoso, I welcome you for bringing this issue to debate. Despite having already been discussed here in this Chamber, the proposal for a government law, even though it has already been discussed here in this Chamber, Parliament's assessment of the diploma that gave rise to it, however, remains alive and deserves to be discussed. One year before the actual elections, a few months before the arrival of the Brussels financial « bazouca », what is proposed to us? It is proposed that a body, whose great competences are at the level of planning, regional development and the administration of funds, should be appointed by a ‘cooked’ between PS and PSD. And the honourable Member called it the Treaty of Tordesillas. I think it was even nice of you. It is another division of the spoils of a loot of what will come there from Brussels. And none of this is innocent. He reached the point where a Secretary of State resigns from the government already with the secured place, in this case to the CCDR of the Algarve. So much democracy, so much uncertainty that there is in this election! There is only one thing worse than this being done: it is the PCP to have the dream, which has no other name, to come to say « if the other parties oppose this, then they present alternative candidatures». There must indeed be a lot of sound. Therefore, the date of entry into force of this law is not only a bad day for democracy, as are bad news for decentralization and bad news for transparency and the exercise of power in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u68	To respond to these requests for clarification, Mr José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you to the ladies. Members have asked me questions on the subject that brought the discussion. Mr. José Cancela de Moura, from the PSD, is true, the critical Left Block. So, don't you criticize? Oh, my God! Is this a protest party? Oh, my God! For it is, when you think and think there is something wrong, when you need to claim a set of rights, when you have to take a position on defending what is the priority and primary needs for the population. So there we continue to be critical, we will continue to make this opposition, which is, of course, fierce in relation to our claims. We have no doubt about that. But in saying that in view of this situation, in view of a reality as obvious as this, we are against democracy, that this is a highly democratic process, I would like to ask you, exactly, whether this is your concept of democracy, if this is the concept of democracy of the PSD. what is, in this particular case, certainly one species — as has been said, and very well, by Mrs Cecilia Meireles — a group of political commissioners who are created in a situation which is, at the moment, important to manage millions who will come from the European Union. Moreover, this led even to a reversal in the PSD position, which was initially opposed and critical, saying that it would have to coincide with the period of the actual elections, and then it found it to be well changed from October to October to extend in five years, to this voracity of the millions of the European Union. That is the situation and that is the point. So there is no democratic principle here, on the contrary, there is an attack on democracy itself. To be said 'because they do not compete, because they do not present alternative lists' is a tremendous cynicism! Of course, in view of the panorama of the election results and of those with the power of authorship, a PS/PSD coalition candidacy is necessarily winning, accordingly, let's say, with an electoral universe that is addicted and partisan. It's obvious, isn't it? Therefore, it is a cynicism of all sizes to consider this whole situation in this way. Dear Mr José Cancela de Moura, democracy is, above all, a sharing, a sharing of understanding, a plurality. And to reduce this plurality to the fact, and even boast that there are two candidates in the Alentejo? This happened because there was no agreement between the parties. That's exactly why there were two candidates. One of the candidates did not accept, because otherwise it would be exactly the same, with one candidate in all regions. This is the result of this understanding, to the deafin, which was done between the PS and the PSD as a revival of a central block for this type of interest. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, of course I welcome the follow-up she makes of our position, in accordance with what we stand for. As for Mr. Deputy of the Liberal Initiative, João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of course we also agree with his criticism of increasing evidence in terms of results and of what is obtained. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u70	Mr President, you have four further requests for clarification of the PAN, the ENP, the CFP, and the PS. To that end, Mr Nelson Basílio Silva has the floor for the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u71	Mr. President, thank you very much. Good afternoon to all and to all present. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Maria Cardoso, the NAP's position regarding the election of the Directorates of the CCDR is more than clear and has been expressed with proposals for amendment in the context of the parliamentary assessment which has been carried out here. We went against the fast-paced mode as PS and PSD cooked this legal change. We have opposed this model of indirect election because we understand that it is overcome, based on a worrying logic of closed-circuit democracy, is too politicized and excludes from the electoral process agents crucial to regional development. For us, the progressive path is the direct election by universal suffrage, with the participation of all citizens. Only in this way could we truly speak in democratic legitimacy of the Directorates of the CCDRs and ensure the possibility of developing their planning mission with effective and genuine autonomy of the government's protection. However, contrary to what the PS and PSD defended, this path could never mean, as it has happened, a smoothing or a reduction in the curricular requirements required for the positions. Well, these proposals were rejected by the Block, which joined the PS, PSD, PCP and IL, and were the only ones that proposed an alternative vision to that of the Government. For the NAP, the discussion on RCDs is different from the discussion of regionalization. in this second discussion, the NAP is clear: without a constitutional review clarifying the issue of the referendum it is not possible to move forward. The position of the Block with regard to CCDRs is at least strange. In June this year, Mr José Maria Cardoso said: "We want a direct election, in which the population is heard, and this is not covered by the decree-law of the government that has been approved. It is an act of democracy which is here alibi». And he came back here today to repeat that idea. A month later, perhaps because of the influence of the PCP, he did the « turnout dance » and voted against the NAP proposal aimed at the direct election in the direction of the CCDRs, putting himself next to the closed circuit election that the PS and PSD cooked. And then how do we get when the local voters of the Block presented in the last month, in the municipal assemblies, motions against the indirect election? It is necessary to know, after all, what the position of the Block with regard to the CCDRs is. Are they really against the direct election or are they just against because it was a PAN proposal? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u72	It is the time of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group to request clarification. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u73	Mr President, Mr José Maria Cardoso, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue from the CCDR to debate. We believe that the fundamental question on this subject is, in fact, to create one more obstacle, one more difficulty in moving forward in a decisive way for the creation of the administrative regions and for the regionalisation of our country. This is the bottom line, this is the structural issue, this is the question that our Constitution raises and for which over the decades the PS, PSD and CDS have been responsible. It has never been achieved because of a lack of political will and for it to effectively not only comply with the Constitution, but also to move forward and allow regional development, which allows people to voice and also to contribute to the elimination of asymmetries in our territory. When we here allocated the parliamentary opinion on the amendment of the CCDRs and this so-called democratization of the CCDRs was because it was clear from the Government's diploma that the following: there is no democratization process. Moreover, the presidents are elected and at the end of the electoral process they become a head of a central administration structure and may be dismissed by the government. Another aspect I stress is that the CCDRs have not changed their nature and therefore continue to be a deconcentrated structure of central administration, they are no autarchy. In fact, what our Constitution provides for is the creation of administrative regions. Once again, PS and PSD converged on not moving forward with regionalization, pushing it forward and putting it in the drawer. Mr President, the question I would like to ask you is whether you do not think that the solution is to move forward towards regionalisation. The PS and PSD, in this convergence, prevented it from moving forward, as the PCP has already proposed in the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u74	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u75	I will now finish, Mr President. I ask you, Mr President, if you do not consider it important, in this process of creating administrative regions, to give voice to the people through an effective democratic process, promoting their participation and contributing to the development of the territories. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u76	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP also has the floor to ask for clarification. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u77	Mr President, Mr José Maria Cardoso, in fact, looks at this process as a step towards decentralization or towards giving shape to the process of regionalization, it is not one who knows what it is talking about, because both the PS and the PSD know very well that this process has nothing to do with decentralization or regionalization. It is, yes, of whom, intentionally or not, seeks to mislead people with the deliberate confusion between two very distinct concepts. You know the government, you know the PS, you know the PSD, that deconcentration has nothing to do with the process of decentralization of the country. Concentrating and decentralizing are concepts with a very different nature and scope. In fact, this technique of seeking pretexts to delay the process of regionalization of the country is not new. It was also for this purpose that the CCDRs themselves were created. And now, with the so-called process of democratisation of the CCDRs, the purpose is to try to avoid compliance with the constitutional rules on the process of the creation of the administrative regions. In fact, as much as they intend to give or the new clothes they seek to wear, the CCDRs do not cease to continue to be bodies of the central administration, because this derives from the legal nature of the rostrum, as very well mentioned earlier, Mr. On the other hand, it is sufficient to pay attention to the fact that the diploma itself establishes the election of the Presidents of the CCDRs, but at the same time to establish the ability of the Government to indiscriminately dismiss the same Presidents. Where is the democratization of this process? In addition, in accordance with the diploma itself, one of the vice-presidents of each of the CCDRs is also indicated by the Government. That is to say, however much makeup is intended to be done, we will always be talking about deconcentration rather than decentralisation, we will always be talking about structures of the central government of the state. From the perspective of the Greens, what is required to enhance regional development and combat regional asymmetries is to move forward with the process of creating administrative regions and not with these makeup operations. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask you whether you follow us in the reading that we do when we say that this process is moved for a single purpose, to continue to delay the process of regionalization which is provided for in our constitutional text.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u79	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u80	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. One of the commitments of the 21st Government for 2019 - 2021 was to deepen decentralization with a view to regionalization, deepen decentralization with more democracy and better public service, strengthen local power, that all political forces, from right to left, applaud and recognize being the bulwark of territorial development, and democratize territorial governance by taking steps towards the Portuguese system becoming less centralist. Some agree, others don't. Interestingly, criticism is more ferocious on the left, according to Mr. José Maria Cardoso, who has just confirmed — « ferocious» was the term he used. I am referring to the fact that the autoarchs — although some still have perfectly understandable doubts, which has led the Government to extend the deadline for decentralisation — have come to embrace this challenge, taking on new competences, because they recognize that, in this way, the authorities will be better able to respond to the problems of the population. We have come to the moment when everyone talks to criticize, but they do not want to take any decision, remaining by an ideal model that, perhaps, does not exist and filling in the adjective speech. « Regionalization is the dream of some», they say, but it is necessary to make the way there, which they do not want, and they prefer to continue to make a chorus of criticism, pretending to ignore that centralism hinders development and prevents the improvement of the living conditions of the populations. Therefore, the Government of the Socialist Party, taking on and honouring the commitments it has made, has advanced with the democratic election of the regional coordination and development committees, vulgar CCDR, which will take place on 13 October and which, according to the legislation, will involve more than 10 000 autarchs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u81	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u82	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mr. José Maria Cardoso, surely the Left Block will not question the ability of the autarchs, although it does not have many, but I ask whether or not it recognizes that this election is a step towards such an eager regionalisation. in this case, I ask how it is justified that the measures for the strengthening of local power are continually hampered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u83	To reply, Mr. José Maria Cardoso, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u84	Mr. President, thank you all. Members and Members who have raised this set of questions. Depending on the presentation of the questions, I begin by answering Mr. PAN Nelson Silva. I must say that I did not understand very well the confusion that you did in relation to what, by his words, would have been said by the Left Block. Since the beginning we say the same thing, that is, we consider this election to be an arid way of putting together what is necessary and urgent to do and that since 1976 it has been enshrined in the law, which is regionalization. As such, it is not the question of finding that the election should be direct, universal or indirect that will solve the situation — it may be more democratic or less democratic, it may involve more people, more population, but it does not make it a recognition of anything in terms of democratising the CCDRs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u86	The CCDRs are a peripheral body of the State, they are under the reach of the State, and there is nothing that changes its legal nature, nothing that alters neither its composition nor its way of acting. Very honestly, if you want me to tell you, we'll be here talking about whether it will democratize or not even worsen the situation. So far there was an administrative appointment — we knew it was so — related to the government, and there is a party appointment, a party game, which makes the situation much more dangerous. So this condition does not improve anything at all and that is our position from the beginning. We — and also responding to Mrs Paula Santos — are in favour of regionalization, that is what we defend,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u88	...and, as such, our path is to create conditions for it to be a reality. In fact, that is why we have even asked for the cessation of this document when it was discussed here as a decree-law. It was in this sense that we invoked this situation. There is a lot of talk in asymmetries, in inequalities, in territorial cohesion, when we have a totally asymmetric country, an increasingly asymmetrical and more unbalanced country. I do not see here the cure of all evils, but realizing that it is one of the possibilities of creating greater equality of opportunity and greater balance, regionalisation is undoubtedly a way to start as quickly as possible. The PS and PSD know very well that we will be here entertaining and matching a situation is precisely to be making time, because in the meantime, Mr President of the Republic is convincingly opposed to regionalisation. So we are here to find some artifacts and subterfuges to meet the demand of regionalization. This is the meaning and this is the interest of what is at stake. Mr José Luís Ferreira, as I have just said, we believe that this process is to hinder regionalisation. This was described at the Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, because both in the opening speech of Mr. President of the Republic and in the closing of Mr. Prime Minister were created the ballasts. In fact, it was at that time that Mr Prime Minister presented the great news of the election of the presidents of the CCDRs, precisely in order to postpone regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u89	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u90	I tell you more: deferring regionalisation is already bad, but it is much worse, because we are creating conditions to manage Community funds in the interests of the PS and PSD objectives and in the interests of the central bloc and the authorships that defend it. Just to finish, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u91	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u92	... replying to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, I meant that this is not really a step towards regionalization, but exactly its opposite: it is to lead and cover regionalization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u93	Mr António Filipe spoke for a political statement by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Justice policy is a framework for the democratic rule of law and any doubt about its robustness is always a danger to democracy. To guarantee a justice system in which citizens can trust, guarantee the independence of the courts and the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor, guarantee the means necessary for the investigation and timely judgment of all forms of crime, guarantee to all citizens access to law and to courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, ensure a prison system respecting human rights and with the capacity to resocialize, ensure the public services necessary for the safety of acts with legal relevance, all of these are objectives whose realization calls for democratic political power. The political cycle that began at the end of 2015 with the current ministerial team, whose orientation was essentially maintained in 2019, began well with the reopening of the courts that had been closed by the PSD/CDS government, but this desirable beginning did not have the necessary continuity in solving other very serious problems that continue to affect the functioning of justice. in a word, there has not been the investment which is imposed and which is necessary so that the judicial system can effectively correspond to the fulfilment of constitutional requirements. The courts continue to have a horrendous lack of employees, which seriously affects their functioning. The status of judicial officials, promised many years ago, remains unacceptablely blocked. Access to the courts continues to be a mirage for citizens who do not have financial conditions to bear the judicial costs and costs of the judicial sponsorship. It is true that, on a proposal from the CFP in successive State budgets since 2016, the value of the legal costs has been frozen, but this does not solve the underlying problem. And the basic problem is that most citizens do not have any money to resort to courts or have the right to judicial support by the State, seeing their right to justice being denied due to insufficient economic means. Registration and notarial services continue to flourish. Not only are the statutory problems of their professions not solved, which have been dragged down for many years, as the problems of inadequate facilities and the functionality of services in their relationship with citizens are not solved. Instead of taking steps to solve real and pressing problems, the Government presents indefinite and long-term projects. In the prison system, there is a plan for 10 years that seems not to pass from the year zero, but in the present, there are no prison guards and other professionals in sufficient numbers, the Prison Guard Corps has a legal match to the PSP (PSC) that is not met, the minimum conditions for fulfilling its resocializing function are lacking in the system. In the fight against corruption, instead of providing the judiciary and the Public Ministry with the human, material and financial resources that are indispensable to an effective fight against economic and financial crime, the Government is putting in public discussion another document for a 'National Strategy for Combating Corruption'. As far as combating corruption is concerned, what the country needs is not strategic plans or ideas contests. What is important is to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 91 / 2010 on measures aimed at strengthening prevention and combating corruption. The CFP has always given evidence of its commitment, particularly in this House, to adopting political and legislative measures that allow an effective defence of the democratic state—because that is what we are talking about—against corruption. We have done this here for more than 30 years by triggering the debate on the gross lack of means of combating corruption denounced by the then Attorney General of the Republic, Dr Cunha Rodrigues, in the time of the Governments of Cavaco Silva, and by contributing to the adoption of legislative measures that make the situation today better than it was at that time. Today, there are public figures linked to the world of politics, the financial system, the business environment, banking, football or justice condemned or accused of crimes of corruption. These facts are inseparable from the steps taken at legislative level and should not be devalued. The PCP does not align in the speech of those who fill their mouth with gongoric phrases against corruption and claim for themselves the status of being the only serious people in this world, but live well with the PPPs (public-private partnerships), with the offshore where they hide the bleached capitals, with the promiscuity between politics and business, with the tax evasion of the powerful or with the drain of public resources for private profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u95	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u96	History has given eloquent examples that it is often behind the anti-corruption discourse that hides the most corrupt and those who, in the name of the fight against corruption, want more than to liquidate structural principles of the state of democratic law. [[PCP applause.]] We insist, therefore, that what the country needs is not more plans and strategies in the paper, but more means for the Public Prosecutor's Office, for the Judicial Police and for general inspections; more experts in the financial, accounting and computer fields; courts sufficiently equipped to give more speed to the processes, combating fair feelings of inefficiencies in justice due to their excessive morbidity. It is in this fight that we are, for justice, against impunity, against demagogy and democracy. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u97	Mr António Filipe, you have four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u98	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u99	First of all, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr António Filipe, of course, my first word is of appreciation and congratulations on the way in which he addressed the issue of justice policy in this House. from our point of view, Mr President, there is a fundamental problem in justice policy, which has been worsening over time. And this fundamental problem is that, in the system itself, the failure of the law to be a reality. Therefore, it is precisely in the system where the law should be the absolute primacy that it ends up being often unmet. I am going to give a number of examples, which I would like to confront. First of all, something which Mr has mentioned, and very well, in his speech: systematic failure by the highest authorities responsible for justice policy, of legal commitments made, in particular in the budget law, with systematic failure to submit and approve professional statutes, central to the functioning of the judicial system — first and foremost, the one of the Public Prosecutor's Office, then the one of the judges and now this unqualified delay in the presentation and approval of the status of judicial officials. I would like, on behalf of the Left Block, to leave a greeting word for the strike of the judicial officials that is taking place today and which is a very important and very fair protest in view of this failure to comply with the law by the Government. But there is more: failure, too, to comply with the law as regards the functioning of the prison system and the prison system. In the hearings that we held within the framework of the Subcommittee on Social Integration and Prison Affairs, it has been made clear that the Code of the Enforcement of the Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom is daily not complied with in our prisons, in matters as basic as the absolutely fundamental principle of individual cells and even legal support for prisoners and other aspects of this Code. Finally, a third example, which, in fact, he referred to: the fee table of the system of access to the right. In fact, the recent mechanical increase, of about 8 cents, is an insult to lawyers working in the law access system and is a flagrant violation of the law, which commanded that the updating of the fee table should obey both the evolution of inflation and the principle of payment worthy of remuneration for all lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u101	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u102	Mr President, I would like to conclude by asking Mr António Filipe if he does not think that non-compliance with the law is an essential aspect and if there are, eventually, aspects to improve in the system of the relationship of justice with the social fabric itself, so that there is no protection of aspects that are harmful and that there is greater openness and transparency of the functioning of justice itself. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u103	To make a request for clarification, Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u104	Mr President, we have heard Mr.António Filipe talk about justice policy and say that we cannot have a justice in which citizens cannot trust. It is curious to hear this from the Communist Party, to hear that there are several defendants and convicted in public positions, when, whenever urged to comment, it says that it does not mix justice with politics and that it does not confuse accused with convicted or convicted with the exercise of political positions. That is why it would be good if you were to make clear what you want here today! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] But it would also be important to ask the Communist Party whether or not it is available to overcome the constitutional court's blockade of illicit enrichment and whether or not it is available for a proposal that can finally lead those who illicitly enrich to be condemned by our justice or whether it is just mouth and if we are not really going to do anything. But today, Mr President, I cannot but ask you a question. On the matter of life imprisonment, I heard you say that it was a shock and that you were flagrantly violating our standards. Therefore, with this opportunity, given that, in the vast majority of the communist countries of the world, there is perpetual imprisonment—even worse, but there is perpetual imprisonment, at least—I would like you to tell us whether the Portuguese Communist Party will or will not agree and is able to support a measure, such as the one that has already introduced the Portuguese parliamentary system, of perpetual prison for cases of rape of minors, murder, terrorism and serious cases of corruption, since in almost all the communist countries of the world this happens. I would also like to ask you another question, Mr President. The honourable Member spoke about incompatibility between public and private life, as if the private were all criminals and corrupt. It is time for the Communist Party to also say whether or not it will support the proposal of the Arrival which provides that those who do business with the State and on behalf of the State will never again be able to hold office in the company with which it has negotiated on behalf of the State. It is that we are full of ministers who make concessions and then go to work for the bridges where they have made these concessions or para-ministers who have proposed works and who have ended up working in the companies to which they have awarded these works. This was what the Communist Party could do, and this was what, beyond the discussion on justice policy and on improving individual cells, such as the Left Block or do, the Portuguese would indeed like to be resolved in Portugal. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u105	Mr António Filipe has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u106	Mr President, Mr. José Manuel Pureza raised three questions, which I highlighted and which are very relevant, giving me the opportunity to refer to them. The first concerns the status of judicial officials. In fact, it is not at least acceptable that, after the Statute of the Judiciary Judges and the Statute of the Public Prosecutor — in fact, statutes which the PSD/CDS governments had left absolutely incarcerated — after these statutes had been resolved, all negotiations with the union representatives of the judicial officials were not conducted equally with regard to judicial officials and, on the contrary, all negotiations were blocked with the union representatives of the judicial officials in respect of their status. That is absolutely unacceptable. It is no longer just the problem of the loud absence of officials in the courts, it is also, in fact, the blocking of the approval of their status and therefore we want to leave a very firm word of repudiation here because there is no such unlocking and availability by the government. Well, with the prison system we have another problem. Plans for the prison system have not been lacking—in fact, there was a plan, prepared by Prof. Freitas do Amaral, at the beginning of the 21st century, to which it has not actually been given—and now we have another plan to 10 years for the prison system that is sinking. It is enough to look at the Ponta Delgada chain to see that the solution that the Government has made to the ground, to its location, will already drag the costs and the time so that this prison establishment, which is absolutely priority in defending the most basic human rights and the dignity of the prison system, can be a reality. Then he gave me an opportunity to point out another problem, which is the fees of lawyers who provide legal support. The Government is obliged to publish an update portal that takes into account the fair remuneration of the services provided by these lawyers, failed to publish this portal for a long time and, when it published it, made an increase of 8 cents! This is unacceptable, it's an insult to lawyers. Therefore, I am glad that you have raised this question. As for Mr Ventura, we are here talking about serious proposals, we are talking about defending the rule of democratic law and you are not here called. [[PCP, PEV and PS MP Maria Begonha applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with the requests for clarification. To that end, Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr António Filipe, there is no way to sign below and agree with almost everything that the honourable Member has said about the rostrum, because there is no doubt that the concern of the CFP — and, I say, of all the parliamentary groups, of all the parties, I think of all the Members — is a genuine and genuine concern about combating corruption and how best to find solutions to reverse the entropy and the blockades of justice. But, Mr President, I am going to talk to you about this because you have twice used the expression « PSD / CDS governments » : for as long as it happens, you always have the cassette – now it is no longer the cassette, they are other means – in this past from 2011 to 2015. It's just that Mr. Deputy, with what he said, has an idea that the CFP came from another galaxy and only arrived here yesterday. Don't! The CFP has to assume its responsibilities, as indeed the Block, because you have been muleed by the PS Government between 2015 and 2019, voted four State budgets... [[PSD applause.]] ...and, therefore, they are responsible for what happened well—and good things happened—but they are also responsible for the stilts of many of the failures. And what do you have to offer in relation to justice and the fight against corruption? They took a handful of ears from the international institutions, which put Portugal on Europe's tail with regard to the adoption of measures to combat corruption. That's what you've got! Mr President, we have laws, we can have more and they can be improved, but what we do not have and we need to have are means for the police, especially for the judicial police, which needs more experts, and for the Attorney-General of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u109	That's what he said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u110	It is by these means that you have to fight for the next State budget. It is there, in our view, that all efforts must be made. I don't know if you agree or not with me. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] I shall finish by asking Mr António Filipe if he thinks that the abstract strategy of combating corruption recently disclosed by the government is sufficient, which actually goes by the eye of the hurricane, because it says nothing concrete about the links between government and football and between European funds and public works, and that is worrying. But here we are all, vigilantes, to build a better Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u111	Mr António Filipe, the Bureau still records two entries for requests for clarification, the PS and the CDS. For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by greeting Mr António Filipe on the subject of his political statement. We share the idea that justice is a fundamental pillar of the rule of law and of the critical role that good or bad functioning of the justice system has in people's confidence in institutions. Therefore, we could no longer agree with the relevance of the subject which brought the debate on one day, in fact, when the European Commission revealed the report on the rule of law. while pointing out aspects in which it is necessary to continue improving the action of the Government, which coincide with the priorities in the Government Programme, in the overall guidelines of the Government and in the State budgets, this report is also very relevant to the important work that Portugal has carried out in recent years, particularly in combating corruption, with the adoption of very relevant legislation and with the presentation of the strategy. After the interventions I have heard, it seems that the government has put forward a strategy. How good it would have been if the government had not presented a strategy! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u114	No, the government didn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u115	A strategy is a strategy, the rest comes later, Mr! The rest comes later! Another example that is given and with great relevance for the proper functioning of justice is the investment that has been made in information and communication technologies, without which it is not possible to work on the efficiency and speed of justice. Forgive me, but justice is fair only if it is timely and without these investments, that is not possible. If I had time, I could list here all the work that was done at the level of professional statutes. We know, and you also know, that the government is working hard on the status of judicial officials and that very soon we will have a new start in strengthening human resources, which, in fact, makes sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u116	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u117	To conclude this speech, Mr President, I would like to say that the PS is aware of the many ways in which Mr António Filipe is still going to take on issues such as those which Mr Filipe mentioned: improving the response that the prison service gives to those who fulfil detention sentences and improve lawyers' fees are two of the concerns that we naturally share with you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u118	To make a request for clarification, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u119	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all, of course, I would like to congratulate you on the subject you have brought to the debate, which is indeed important and which is to be treated seriously, without more or less populist analyses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u120	Go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u121	He did not do it and I do it too, as it is evident. Mr President, even in the previous speech, there is a very famous phrase that says: 'Llow justice is no more than qualified injustice. » This is an absolute truth and it has been in our justice for many years. But the truth is that there are also many years of this Socialist Party government and things don't happen. They don't happen! Morosity continues, difficulties continue, the investment plan continues to be a plan that never departs from the paper and effectively passes into reality. So I ask you, first of all, whether or not you agree with this analysis. Then, Mr President, I would like to ask you a few simple questions, in fact, some simpler ones and others more difficult. Moreover, Mr President, perhaps even do an exercise, increasing the degree of difficulty in the questions. Thus, the first question I ask you is what evaluation is made of this government and the previous Government of the Socialist Party, in particular what assessment is that the Portuguese Communist Party makes of the action of the Minister Francisca Van Dunem, because it is indeed a well-prepared person, a good lawyer, who knows the system but who, for whatever reason, may go from lack of political weight to any other person who does not decoup at the moment, has not been able to promote the necessary reforms. Therefore, the first question is how the CFP assesses the performance of the government. Secondly, by saying — and I understand that this is clear in your speech — that the issue is not so much in the law, especially in the fight against corruption, but more in the investment, I ask you if, however, you do not think some laws can be improved. In other words, the PCP, which is also a proactive party in proposing laws and draft resolutions, etc. Does it or does it not consider that some of the legal systems can be improved? I don't know if lobbying, I don't know if the complainant's status, I don't know exactly what matters, but I ask him whether some of them would have the agreement of the PCP. This is a little more difficult question. More difficult question...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u122	Mr President, I ask you to be very synthetic now in the last question.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u123	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Ask even more difficult: will the PCP hit due to missing investments? Last question, and the most difficult of all: it will either take the CFP or not, in the vote of the State budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u124	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u125	... consequences of the government not presenting the reforms and investments that are necessary?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u126	You have the floor to answer, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the questions that have been asked, which are not difficult, are all perfectly responsive. Mr. Carlos Peixato regretted that he had mentioned me several times to the PSD / CDS governments, but I only said two things: one was that they had closed courts, that they were then reopened, and another was that they had left to approve the statutes of the judicial magistrates and the Public Prosecutors, that they were only then unlocked. The honourable Member says: "Well, the CFP wants to be responsible for good things, but then he does not want to be responsible for things that have to be done. » No, sir, we assume all the responsibilities of what we stand for in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u128	After hearing...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u129	In fact, that is why I am taking advantage of answering one of the questions put by Mr Telmo Correia, which was whether or not we were fighting for these investments here. So much for the talks, Mr President, that I have here the proposal presented by the CFP in the debate on the State budget for 2020 — and I have indeed sought the latest — for the adoption of a multiannual investment plan for criminal investigation. Well, this proposal had the votes against the Socialist Party, which we regret, but could have been approved, had not been the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS and the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u130	Oh! Really? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u131	Now, imagine there that, with your vote, you have made it impossible for the State budget for 2020 to adopt a multi-annual investment plan in criminal investigation, which would now be in force. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] They may now be criticizing the Government for not fully complying with this provision, but it would have been approved if the Members were to. Members had approved the CFP proposal, which they did not. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Ask Mr Telmo Correia whether we will continue to beat ourselves up for that. Yes, we will continue, and we are all responsible for the choices we make in this House, both in budgetary matters and, of course, in other matters. In this way I also reply to Mr Telmo Correia with regard to the balance sheet we are making. We believe that there has been no investment needed to solve structural problems of the justice system at various levels, either at the level of criminal investigation or at the level of the allocation of courts with the necessary means, either at the level of the prison system, or at the level of the socio-professional status, because, by removing the problem of the status of judges, which is resolved, that of the other professionals of the system is not, and is far from being resolved. And we will continue to beat ourselves up for that. Mrs. Isabel Rodrigues, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised and would like to say to you: I am going to get in and remember the complaints made here by the Attorney General of the Republic of José Narciso da Cunha Rodrigues, at the time of the Governments of Cavaco Silva, when he said in this House that the criminal proceedings were going from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Court of Good Time at the electric station, because there was not a car that would allow the Public Prosecutor to take them. And then the passengers complained, because the electric was long overdue, so that the officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office would put the processes on the electrical rig to take them to Good Time. This was the situation of criminal investigation in the 1990s. The situation is no longer that and the steps taken in legislative matters in this House, especially in 2010, when a very important work has been done...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u133	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the steps that have been taken, particularly with the adoption of the resolution of 2010 which I cited here, and which, if I am not mistaken, has been unanimously adopted, have been important, are producing results and could give more, the problem now is investment, is to meet the objectives of that resolution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u134	The political statement by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP is followed, for which Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are 12 days away from starting the discussion of the State budget. It will be, or at least should be, the most decisive budget of the coming years. First, because next year will be completely atypical and a substantial part of the economy will continue to close or at least half gas by force or fear of measures taken to contain the pandemic. Secondly, because this is also the Budget which will mark the path we want to follow in the coming decades and what we want to do with the so famous and cherished money of Europe, such « babauca» as Mr Prime Minister speaks of. The right budget for Portugal is, or should be, a budget that trusts the private initiative and gives it the necessary conditions to endure the difficulties of the pandemic and freedom to ensure that Portugal does not spend the next 20 years disputing the last places of European ranking, contrary to what has happened in the last two decades. But the Budget that PS needs and that tries to draw with its leftmost partners is another, quite different. It has already been realized that, as a model of growth, it presents a list of works, and of public works. With regard to the private initiative, especially that which does not depend on the State, he looks at it with mistrust and prefers to bet in a client country, instead of letting dynamic professionals and companies, little dependent on the State, their authorizations and their support. Let's look at some practical examples of the last few weeks or months. I'd like to start with the so-called Recovery Plan. And I am not even going to mention the fact that, of course, only one quarter of this plan and the financial envelope in it is intended to be intended for productive potential and businesses. But it comes to the view that the overwhelming majority of concrete measures are not properly measured, they are works, and they are public works—from the point of view of the government, that is the driving force of the economy—and there is no single measure, of the EUR 3000 million, for companies which are easy, fast and transversal to all, without the need to create a real industry of projects and public bodies for approval, rejection and negotiation with companies. A measure as simple as it could be to eliminate some of the taxes or contributions that have been extended during this year and that companies do not have any money to pay, apparently, will not be included in the Budget or on the table. This is what is called the creation of a client country: there is no support for companies without stamps of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u137	It is worth recalling, by chance, something that has already been mentioned this afternoon, the CCDR issue, that the PS at the wrong time has come to remember, with what it called "indirect election". In practice, what we are watching is the placement in the CCDR of political commissioners divided by the central block, in which the PS carries the piece of lion, as it is, in fact, assumed in a completely open and frontal manner, without any shame, in the face of the indifference of public opinion, or rather, in the face of the indifference of published opinion. In other words, what is happening right now in Portugal is serious: in order to implement public policies, it is not to design, it is to execute — to analyze projects, to deal with licences, to do so counts political confidence and does not count any technical competence. in a country like ours, in which, in many municipalities, the main employer is already the municipal chamber and that needed to create more opportunities in the private sector, what is being done is the delivery of the CCDRs to local party machines. With its powers in the implementation of public policies and also with regard to the implementation of such Community funds and large financial envelopes, it is good to see that what is being created is, yes, a client country, in which it counts more the company that knows who knows who than the company that works well, who treats its workers well, who pays fair wages. These were the companies in which it was important not for the government to help, but above all to help, and unfortunately, what is happening is the opposite. Finally, this budget could and should be an excellent opportunity for the government to save and maintain jobs, which will be lost if something is not done very quickly. Unfortunately, there are many companies that have been closed during the confinement period, which have reopened in recent months, who want to survive and save jobs, but which have, in fact, fewer customers and less orders—and will probably still have fewer customers and fewer orders while we live in this uncertainty, just think of a small hotel or a local trade store. The measure of the simplified, or rather, medium-simple layoff, despite the delays and the initial soluvancs, allowed to keep employment, with substantial sacrifices—it is true! — for nearly 900 000 workers, who have seen their income diminished, and it is also fair to mention it, with the efforts of many entrepreneurs, who have used their personal savings for this purpose. The government decided to eliminate it and replace it with a complicated layoff, which it called « extraordinary support for progressive recovery ». He changed his name and complicated the regime. As a result, yesterday, I was already announcing the revision of the complicated layoff regime, vulgar, extraordinary support for recovery. We are wasting precious time, while many companies do not have, it takes speed and simplicity. at this moment, there are two emergencies. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u138	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u139	Of course, Mr. President. The first urgency is to protect the most vulnerable, the second and last is to protect employment and work. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u140	For now, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Members of the PSD, the Liberal Initiative and the PCP, to make requests for clarification to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, who will jointly respond. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD, first of all, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I welcome and congratulate the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group on the topic chosen for its political declaration and its relevance. in a serene but objective analysis of what is the country's economic and financial situation, we are obliged to conclude, firstly, that the country's economic situation is worse than that which the government anticipated. Secondly, we are obliged to conclude that the generality of companies continues far away from the resumption of activity, and this is not exclusive to the restoration or tourism sector. Thirdly, companies feel unsupported. Just hear what the entrepreneurs say, just hear what the presidents of the business associations say. Fourthly, the signs of the wars set up within the government are becoming increasingly evident. The announcement of the simplified layoff regime was made by Mr. Minister of Economics, when this is an area protected by Mrs. Minister of Labour, in addition, on the margins and the wake of social dialogue. This is a revealing sign of the war installed in the government. Fifthly, the measures taken by the Government in the fight against the economic crisis are few, they do not resolve anything structural and they were all, but they have all been implemented late. in this context, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I ask you whether or not you agree with our sixth and final conclusion, that the Government has, and has, conditions and obligation to do much more, to do even more, if you want to avoid the closure of thousands of companies and the dismissal of thousands of workers, which would inevitably lead us to a massive social overthrow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u142	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I thank you very much for bringing this up. I did not intend to ask you for an explanation, but there was something that stopped me thinking and I would like to hear your opinion on what I can call a serious and exemplary phenomenon of cognitive dissonance. next time you ask me what it is, I will point to this PS bench and say: "This is an example of cognitive dissonance. Or, for those who don't like the technical jargon so much, it is: "Look at what I say, don't look at what I do! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u144	Ah! All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u145	With regard to the situation, of which, to a large extent, I share, there is one aspect which I think is particularly curious: when the Government presents its Recovery Plan, despite its own « paraministre» Eng.o Costa Silva mention that it is the companies that create wealth and employment, we will see this Recovery Plan and the companies are a footnote, somewhere as indirect beneficiaries of infrastructure, qualifications, with a very small presence. When the Prime Minister himself says that it is essential to mobilize energy, whether from businesses or from citizens, what do we see? A call for that same participation and it is not clear where citizens can work together. The decision-making and evaluation structure and the criteria for these funds that are coming there remain exactly the same as we had in the European Structural Funds. So, enthusiasm, which is what was needed, we don't see. What do we see? The line of companies and state customer consultants waiting to dump that big cake there. I don't think that's how we should make a recovery plan, I think it's a clear phenomenon of cognitive dissonance. But, Mrs. Member, I may be completely wrong and I would like to have your opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u146	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, a total of four Members, signed up to request clarifications. Do you intend to answer two to two?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u147	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u148	All right, Mrs. Deputy. You have the word to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u149	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members. Deputies Jorge Paulo Oliveira and João Cotrim de Figueiredo his questions. I think it is worth reminding ourselves of one thing right now: the reality that we have is that the economy is not working as usual. Some of the companies are stopped, or walking slower, or with less orders. And this situation, unfortunately — and I stress 'unfortunately' — will remain as long as the world is in this situation, until, even if things were different in Portugal, they would be so in the rest of the world. from my point of view, what the State must do to protect jobs and jobs for many people is to protect the survival of companies. To imagine that it is possible to sacrifice businesses, or to imagine that it is possible for companies to close and the state to maintain a situation as if nothing was happening, is to deceive people. That is why it seems to me that the emergency plan needed to ensure the survival of these companies. How? Transforming into fiscal Moratorial Supports that have already been given, devoting some substantive support to loss and, above all, creating an incentive that is not of the choice of the State, but that covers all companies. Secondly, I would like to remember this data, because it is worth remembering: we had a very, very substantial fall in the number of hours worked. Why? Because people were forced to stay at home. In fact, what happened in the first phase, with the simplified layoff—with defects, it is true, and with many sacrifices, yes— is that this has enabled many jobs to be preserved. Prohibitions, seeing the diabolization of companies, seeing companies as if they were enemies of the people and enemies of their workers, from my point of view, is a way to create a monumental problem, even greater than the one we already have. The way is the opposite of that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u150	Mr Duarte Alves, from the CFP, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I would like to congratulate you on bringing up a number of issues relating to economic and budgetary policy. In fact, we are facing new problems today, which are the consequence of the pandemic, and in the face of structural problems that the country has already faced and which have worsened significantly with the pandemic and its economic consequences. The question now is: what are the answers to this situation? What are the solutions to these problems, to the lives of workers and the people? We identified three central issues: hence, the need for a policy to value income and wages, on which the Recovery Plan is an authentic blank page, not talking about this need to recover income for workers; secondly, the need to dynamize the economy, for which it is necessary the recovery of public control over sectors and strategic enterprises; thirdly, the need for job creation from the valorization of productive sectors, strengthening public employment, as necessary, in the National Health Service, in public school and in other public services. Tax policy measures are also needed to reduce taxation on those who work and measures supporting and disbanding micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as the CFP has proposed. In the last Supplementary Budget, measures such as suspension of payment on account and full refund of CFPs (special payments on account) were proposed by the CFP, were approved and we believe that they should continue. Regarding PSD and CDS, we know that its formula is another: cutting wages, pensions, attacks on rights, de-investment, privatization. We believe that, at the moment, unlike the formula of Dr. Rui Rio and the CDS, there is a need for a general increase in wages, in particular the national minimum wage. That is why I would like Mrs Cecilia Meireles to speak, because we are facing a moment of international restrictions, and it is essential to give new dynamism to the internal market. This is done only with income, only with an increase in wages and, in order to boost the internal market, there is indeed a need for a general increase in wages, in particular the national minimum wage. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u152	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS now has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u153	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Cecilia Meireles for her choice of the subject that the CDS brought to us. If it is true that the current economic and social crisis poses new and important challenges for all, and if it is true that the pandemic also poses important challenges for businesses, workers, the economic and social situation and employment consequences, it is true that it is time for Portugal to have a true plan of resilience, a full plan of confidence and a full plan of economic reconstruction. We learned that the CDS is against public investment. The CDS is against the railway bet, something that, for years and years, has not been done? Is the CDS against public investment in low-density territories, particularly in territories with more economic and social difficulties, within us? Is the CDS against that? It is also against the economic recovery and resilience plan, the CDS, of course, is also against the digital transition or the wager in the decarbonisation of the economy. I ask Mrs Cecilia Meireles what the position of the CDS on this matter is. If there is a matter in which, over the years, public policies in Portugal have made the market stop functioning, it is housing. What is the concrete proposal of the CDS for housing? We only know one in history: the law of evictions, the law of destroying the housing market, placing the market above social deprotection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u154	All right! [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u155	I therefore wonder what the concrete proposal of the CDS at housing level is. With regard to the Government's response, we stress that the CDS recognises the importance of simplified layoff. Thousands and thousands of jobs have been saved by this measure. But we wanted to realize what concrete measures the CDS is presenting to us. The Government has presented credit lines, simplified layoff, a set of measures that have saved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u156	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u157	We well know that great is an enemy of the good, so we question the CDS in order to know what concrete measures it presents to respond to this pandemic crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u158	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u159	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin by saying that I heard from the Socialist Party's bench : « We learned that the CDS is against public investment. » Now, I would like to say that the CDS is not against public investment. Yes, I am against the idea of considering the private initiative a sort of state-second partner and public investment, which has the function of paying taxes, paying accounts and a little more. Yes! I think most of the investment should be private. This is how a prosperous society works. No problem at all! Mr Hugo Costa was telling me that we are against rail investment. I'm not against rail investment, but I remember! I still remember when the big investment was not rail, but road, and it was called « motorways». Do you remember the time of your former Prime Minister Socrates, knowing how this story ended, either for him or for all of us?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u160	And Paulo Campos!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u161	So you realize that when I hear in large public investment plans, when I hear « now it's going to be», when we had to fight interiority with the highways, but now no longer, it's the Railway Country, I look at it all with a little mistrust, especially when I see, in the plans, great words, great intentions, but then concrete measures, I see very little. As regards concrete measures for companies, I have already given you one: to collect one of the various taxes or contributions which you have extended and, on the one hand, simply eliminate it and do not cover it. It's easy, it's fast and it helps many companies. With regard to Mr Duarte Alves, who asked me a question about our position on formulas and the national minimum wage, he brought some figures because sometimes on formulas, it is better to look at reality. Regarding the national minimum wage, I went to look at the countries of Europe where it is higher and I saw this: Luxembourg, 2141 € minimum wage ; Ireland, 1681 € minimum wage; Netherlands, 1666 € minimum wage. on the side of your benches, I hear only criticism of these countries. Maybe the better they'll see what they're doing well for people to have these minimum wage incomes. Speaking of formulas, I also looked at those countries that have the lowest minimum wages. I found this: Bulgaria, minimum wage of 311 € ; Latvia, minimum wage of 430 € ; Romania, minimum wage of 463 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u162	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u163	Mr President, think carefully about the formulas that these countries have followed for people to live this way and will find them all, even all, in their party. Your party leads to these miseries. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u164	You have the floor for a political statement, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this health crisis, in particular during the period of defination, we have seen total inconsistencies in the criteria that have been defined by the Government, on the basis of the recommendations and guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ), in particular with regard to the presence of the public in the various cultural or sporting activities. If, on the one hand, football games or other sports practices, where adapted sports are included, have waited for a period too long in time by DGS standards and guidelines, the same has not been seen in other activities. We cannot forget that waiting for these standards has had an impact on clubs, incomes and the provision of sports professionals. These activities are still taking place at the closed door, when, contrary to what the government had initially advanced, the Tauromakia was once again the exception. For the government and the Directorate-General for Health, the public of football is expecting undisciplined behavior of people who are unable to behave. But — by all means! — already in the rounds, this anachronistic activity, the government seems to believe that the public will behave like a real angel! Why is it that not 5 % of a football stadium can be occupied when, on the other hand, in recent days, it has circulated on social networks a panoramic picture of a bull market in Santarém, filled with people watching a tour? [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]] It's an image that leaves no room for doubt. [[Right now, the speaker showed a picture.]] in this photograph, whose authenticity has already been verified, it is possible to see how the rules of physical and social distance imposed by the DGS were ignored in the context of the contingency situation in which the country is located: the occupation of the enclosure practically at the most, with rows filled almost entirely, i.e. the opposite of what is required and of what is recommended for good practices in this time for all economic, social and cultural activities and — stop! — not just for the tourdas. But more: in Reg durs de Monsaraz, whose health context we know well, it was announced that death bulls would be carried out and that the DGS authorized the realization of this event once again with the presence of the public. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the bullfighting does what you want in this country! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] The repeated failure to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Tauromáquic Show, also now in an absolutely exceptional health context, is once again the shameful exception! [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]] Despite the physical distance measures imposed 2 m between people, except for the cohabitants, this is not what has happened in practice. According to media agencies, the promoter ensured that all places that are unavailable would be identified and that as a result the lot of the square would be 50 %, something that the image we have just seen proves, absolutely categorically, not true. As if it was not enough, according to the same entity, the PSP was present with the triple of the effects due to what is usual, however it did not report any expulsion of the premises due to repeated failure to comply with the health rules, which, again before the images, can only cause us disbelief, stupefaction and also some revolt in the face of this disrespect for public health. But let us guess: they should all be familiar! But, after all, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, what activity is this that not only benefits from an exceptional status in the face of other activities, such as sports, how apparently does it enjoy a status of absolute impunity in this country? at a time when we receive in this House various complaints and concerns from families who have their relatives isolated in their homes or who cannot accompany pregnant women at the time of delivery, we then attend the maximum lotion of a bull market! Two weights and two measures! What is most important, after all: to ensure that it is born humanized in Portugal, or to ensure that the tourdas, an absolutely inhuman activity, have public? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly those who defend the Tauromachy: do they agree with this irresponsibility? What comment does this flagrant lack of fairness deserve from other events that have suffered the boycott of health authorities? And, very particularly, Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, how do they justify the incoherence of having Mr Prime Minister, one day, to defend the implementation of exceptional measures, in order to avoid an exponential increase in contagios and to make depend on the success of the fight against every citizen's behaviour virus, and on another day the public authorities that the Government is protecting to allow this approach to public health and good sense and, worse, the authorities with control to steal from compliance with the law? [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] In practice, what we have is the government to say, on a day, that the country can no longer confine itself and that the only way to guarantee is to adopt responsible behaviors and, on the day immediately following, to legitimize, through the public entities that are under its aegis, a criterion simply incomprehensible, by allowing events that, if they were no longer enough to promote free and unjustified violence on animals, still challenge the physical integrity of those who participate in this activity and flagrantly disregard the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health. The Committee on Education, Sport and Youth has recently received the Olympic Committee of Portugal, the Paralympic Committee of Portugal and the Confederation of Sport of Portugal, which already signed a joint motion in July, expressing its concerns about the survival of national sports, whether from small clubs, or in the encouragement of young people's sport practice. But for these athletes there are no exceptions. The door is closed to activities promoting good practice rather than violence culture! Ladies and gentlemen. Members close their eyes to animal suffering, close their eyes to the numerous irregularities that occur in this activity, close their eyes to the lack of insurance for the fork, and, by the way, also close their eyes to health, the value of which has been spoken so much during this health crisis and which has been made by the Tauromachia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u166	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u167	I shall conclude, Mr President. If the Tauromachy should no longer take place in a context of normal health, much less it has in a context such as the one we live in, in which society has been obliged to enormous sacrifices and deprivations, in which citizens and citizens are deprived of normal living and health professionals are exposed to increased wear. It is therefore absolutely incomprehensible to the NAP this exception by the State, as well as the total impunity that has reigned before this sector. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u168	The honourable Member has five requests for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u169	Mr President, I will respond to the first two and then to the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u170	You then have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Fernanda Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u171	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, although the PAN has brought the issue of culture to Parliament today. But let me start by telling you that your obsession with the bullies is clearly ill and just reminds us that the NAP has one theme, which is the bullfighting, to end the bullfighting, and it rescues itself from a photograph that does not even correspond to reality. This photograph was taken at the Plaza de Touros Celestino Graza in previous years. But let's go to the point of interest, let's go to the culture that brings us here. The paralysis of the entire cultural sector has caused enormous damage and the result is in sight: many actors and professionals face poverty, unemployment and uncertainty in the future. A situation which the PSD Parliamentary Group has come to denounce and monitor in a serious and constant manner, because the state of culture in Portugal so requires. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is certainly reminded that it was the PSD that promoted an urgent debate last June on the state of culture in Portugal and at the time the PSD Parliamentary Group was concerned that all activities related to the cultural sector were closed and that the responses of the Ministry of Culture were short, late and very little effective. And if the cultural sector was going through an absolute state of calamity at that time, unfortunately, that little or nothing has changed. Despite the pandemic situation that still occurs with the evolution of the crisis of COVID-19, the PSD Parliamentary Group considers that the reopening of various activities and cultural and sporting performances, without exception, is essential for both all professionals in these sectors, and for the general public, of course, that respecting the measures of the DGS, in order to ensure the safeguarding of public health, as is the case in the Tauromachia. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of course the PSD Parliamentary Group agrees with this because the measures and rules to be implemented as a framework for the prevention and control of the transmission of COVID-19 in all manifestations, whether they are cultural or sporting, must exist and be appropriate to each of the situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u172	I would like to draw your attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u173	I'm done now, Mr. President. However, Mrs. Member, we cannot follow the NAP's objective of putting into practice a policy of taste, rejecting activities that, according to the law in force, are considered cultural spectacles. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u174	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u175	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I welcome you and I would like to say that it was not with great surprise that I heard your speech, although I confess to you the title that was indicated for your political statement to distance us a little from this, but we also know the PAN. In fact, it passed from the health crisis resulting from the COVID-19 — it could have talked about the homes, about what is going on in the homes, about the brigades that have been created and that will eventually have fewer medical personnel than what is necessary — what this would have to say about people and about the death of people, but I also realize that this is not so relevant to the NAP, that it has other greater causes, in its legitimate right, for the hypothetical animal suffering. Mrs Deputy, what I heard here was Mrs Deputy, basically pointing her finger at everyone, except for the NAP — of course, immaculate in these matters — to DGS, to the Government, to Parliament. Everyone has to be blamed, but the honourable Member is that she really shouldn't be attentive when the sector has dealt with DGS, as all other sectors have negotiated with DGS, the rules for opening up in the case of the Tauromachic show. If the honourable Member had any problems at that time she could have asked questions, which she could have called the Director-General of Health to clarify. Did he do that? You didn't! Instead of talking about the rostrum and making a big number, which will have to give you a great video, which will have to be very propagated on Facebook and, thus, we live happily. Madam Member, you can point your finger at everyone, but the fact is that if you want to be a police officer in your busy hours, you can take pictures at the square and report what's wrong; now, excuse me from coming here to the House to say that everyone is guilty of a show that has met the rules. Be patient! I don't have anything else to ask you, but really, this matter is already tired!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u177	To reply, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u178	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the honourable Members for the questions they have raised. The PSD Member is already getting used to her obsession—and I pay her the sympathy she has addressed—because it seems ill to us that it is trying to raise the culture which consists of violence and ill-treatment of animals. in the same way it does not seem right to underestimate the health context that we live in and the disrespect...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u179	There's no disrespect!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u180	... by whom he went to watch this show by the rules and guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health. Even because, Mrs. Member, I remember that these images have already circulated, including in the media, and the Polygraph programme has already taken time to analyze the veracity of this image. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] Therefore, the NAP does not come here to bring anything that has not already been addressed in the social communication and that there is no evidence that this situation actually happened. But the honourable Member, who is stunned because of her obsession with keeping Tauromachy alive, leaves out the legitimate concern with discrimination because we did not hear a word from her about sports, we did not hear a word from her about athletes who are conditioned and discriminated against, in the adapted sport we spoke about in the gallery. It is for us that public health and equality are, in fact, too important values to be tortured here. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to make it clear from now on that someone has misinformed her about the issue of the political declaration of the NAP, because the NAP has clearly told what was coming, i.e. that we have come here not only to talk about the public in sports and cultural events, so you will have to see inside your bench who has misled her. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] On the NAP to question the government, I also recall that it will eventually be unattractive to the work of the NAP, which we have asked the Government, not only about the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Health for Tauromachic Shows but also about many other areas of our society, whether about the Portuguese homes or about...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u181	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u182	I conclude now, Mr President. Therefore, I advise you to follow the work of the NAP more closely...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u183	I'm sorry, but it won't be possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u184	... because, indeed, we have not only had concerns as we have brought here a question that is quite legitimate and with which one does not play, which is the health of all people. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u185	Mr André Ventura has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u186	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, I think it was important first of all to know whether the picture she showed was post-pandamy or whether it was prior to the pandemic, because, in fact, to bring a picture to the discussion that could be a year, or two, or three is not exactly the same thing. It looked like the State Budget of the PS, more easily. [[Protests of PS Members.]] So, Mrs. Member, I think it's important to know when the picture is. But at the same time, I would like to ask you if you understand that this is the only consequence of these rules that refer to bull machia. In fact, it seems that there is an obsession with bull machia, that is, in any situation, about any situation, unemployment, lack of water, drought or extreme economic difficulty, soon the bullmachia comes to the sound. For example, today, the honourable Member has certainly been in the same hearing as I did to the Director-General for Health, and I think it has been noticed that the homes are in a very difficult situation — today, honor has been given to her, she has spoken of the homes. So what we want to know is about the news we have seen in recent days, which tells us, for example, that PAN is meeting with the government, that the PAN is meeting with Antonio Costa, that the PAN says there are significant advances in negotiations. When household supervision comes down 17 %, when the homes are in the most difficult pandemic situation in their history and when there is total lack of control over information, Mrs Deputy, instead of coming to talk about Tauromachy, come tell us what the PAN is going to do in the State Budget, tell us whether or not it is going to give the Socialist Party a hand again in this State budget, because that is what matters. It is because you are here saying that everything is very bad, being pointing your finger at the government, calling the Socialist Party's bench to reason, but coming to budget day, raising your hand and voting in favour or abstaining, is the same thing as nothing! By the way, I brought a picture of the bullfighting but I could have brought one of the Front Party! No, no, no, no. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ...or any other, which would be the same thing, but perhaps, would have melded your friends and that didn't agree much anymore. You have to realize which bench you are on and which side you are on, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u187	To request clarification, Mr. Eduardo Barroco de Melo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u188	Mr President, I must begin by saying that, in fact, this supreme irony of arriving must be noted when it comes to handling the truth. I think it is a note of the record in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u189	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u190	Mrs Inês Sousa Real, unlike Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I was a little surprised by the speech she brought us here for a simple reason. We have even shared a personal position on the tourdas, so I am comfortable in this field, but I believe that what we are doing is not really a debate on the legitimacy of the tourdas, it is a debate on whether or not the public is present in sports shows and cultural shows.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u192	Mrs Fernanda Velez has been able to make an impossible synthesis, to want to respect the Directorate-General for Health while she wants to open the doors to people at these events, when, curiously, it is the Directorate-General for Health that determines the rules for the absence of people at these events. Having said that — in fact, contrary to what the Democratic Social Party has said — and as the honourable Member realizes, well, if we do not want to harm the physical integrity of the bulls, speaking here specifically about the tourdas and the position we share, we do not want to subject people, who also have the right to protect their physical integrity, to be, eventually, at risk. Therefore, of course, the Socialist Party has taken a position that seems responsible to us, which is to allow — indeed, since 1 June — the holding of cultural events, until, from a week to a week, on 7 October, the first game of football, with the selection of male elders, to be able to have followers at the stadium. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Therefore, we are gradually, according to the criteria of the Directorate-General for Health, to allow people to return to their normal lives and enjoy, in full or within possible, sports shows and cultural shows. That is why I would like to ask you if it does not seem to make sense to you in this precautionary attitude — not to put people's health at risk and not to jeopardize the very evolution of the pandemic situation in Portugal — that we have indeed had this consultation with the Directorate-General for Health, as we have so far. Realizing, of course, the difficulties that are posed to cultural, sporting associations, to all promoters of cultural and sports shows, I wonder if it makes no sense that we can do this work calmly to, instead of taking the risk of opening now to close shortly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u193	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u194	... we can, in fact, have a support for cultural and sports activity in Portugal, which I think is what we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u195	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u196	Mr President, I welcome Mrs Inês Sousa Real. On his speech and the issues he raises here, I would like to address one aspect, which seems to us to be the main aspect of the realization of a set of cultural and sporting activities in our country, whether they are professional or amateur, which is the importance that this has for the lives of people and also for the health and well-being of the population itself. The epidemic of COVID-19 requires substantive answers to all the structural issues that the CFP has been putting. What is required is the taking of measures to prevent and mitigate the disease — particularly in terms of workplaces, housing and transport — and what is done, at all levels, the pedagogy of the need for protection, for the promotion and dynamization of economic, social, cultural, sports, leisure and living activities, which are fundamental to life, health and well-being. during this period, we identified what we believe should happen, which is, in fact, fulfilling all public health recommendations for the protection of the health of all and to prevent the epidemic and disease. But it is important that we move forward in the resumption of the set of cultural activities, in the resumption of the set of sports activities, particularly when we know the impacts this has had, for example, in the culture sector, which has taken a set of workers and a set of structures for extreme difficulties. We also know of the impact that, for example, numerous communities and neighborhood associations in our country have meaning, with concrete difficulties in their daily lives, but we know more about the importance of carrying out, for example, a set of sports activities for children and young people, in which these collectives and associations, often, are the only opportunity for these children and young people to have access to sport. And we can say the same about culture. Therefore, the question we would like to ask you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u197	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u198	Mr. President, I will finish. The question that the CFP would like to put, Mrs Deputy, is whether, for the NAP, it is not, in fact, important, respecting the existing recommendations, to resume cultural activities, to resume sports activities, to the well-being of all of us, because culture and sport are part of our life, are part of our identity and are essential elements for the development and well-being of the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u199	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Inês Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u200	Mr President, first of all, thank you to the honourable Member and to the Members for the questions you have raised. Mr Ventura, there is an issue which, of course, needs to be clear. He asked us which side we are on. Let it be quite clear that on your side we are certainly not, because, from an ideological point of view, there is much more to us than just bullmach. Therefore, this is not the only and only issue in which we have distanced ourselves. The honourable Member has come to talk about the issue of images, in some way, may be manipulated when there are various images and complaints about this matter, more than clarified; but we could, for example, talk about the Avante! or from the Congress itself, in which the health standards have not been respected either. The NAP has not only stolen from questioning the government but also from presenting proposals for the country. And here I also reply to the other honourable Member and the honourable Members, saying that indeed the NAP has contributed, in terms of public health, with concrete measures, either in the Supplementary Budget or in the State budget we are negotiating. Despite this, there is something that Mr. Members have stolen today from comment. There is, in fact, a supervision that has not been carried out to this Tauromachic activity,... [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]] ... there is a clear breach of the rules of the Directorate-General for Health and, once again, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they ignore and pass over. [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]] We have already been used to blinding our eyes to animal suffering, to give in to the lobby of the Tauromachia, but to neglect public health already seems manifestly incomprehensible and it is a concern that we cannot steal from bringing the debate. Responding also to Mrs Deputies and Mr Deputies of the PS, I would say that, of course, in consultation with the Directorate-General for Health, it is essential that we gradually resume activities such as sports, collectives, and practices in areas that are healthy for our children and young people. But that an activity benefits from an exception, to the detriment of, for example, sport, which does not yet have defined rules, that is, to us, it is manifestly incomprehensible. It is incomprehensible, in this absolutely exceptional context, to favour once again an activity that is not consensual in our society, which questions the humanitarian values of our time, and — worse! — the public health of all is now being challenged. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u201	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u202	If this does not bother you, it bothers us deeply and we will not be silent about it. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u203	Now, the last political statement is followed. To this end, Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country and the world live today one of the greatest crises of memory, a health crisis, caused by an invisible enemy that causes disease and death in a devastating and indiscriminate way. As a result of the health crisis, we are undergoing a devastating social and economic crisis. After a period of economic and financial history in the country, where investment, both public and private, grew, unemployment fell to minimum values and the deficit in the Republic had, in consecutive years, the best performance in democracy, the country struggled, like the world, with thousands of unemployed and thousands of firms in bankruptcy or in great difficulties. It is therefore urgent to quickly trace a path to the recovery of Portugal, in addition to the fight against the pandemic, as is evident. Prime Minister Antonio Costa was already very clear when he stated that the right path and then it would not be austerity, with the increase of tax burden, with cuts in wages and public investment, as the Portuguese right has played a role recently. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Don't! It won't be like that and that's not the way. The Prime Minister, from early on, realized that the path would have to be different, that it would be important to save businesses and save jobs, mobilizing financial resources, especially European ones, to that end. We know that it has not been easy, in Europe with such different leaders and such a different vision, but we respect, of course, this different form. However, Europe and its leaders demonstrate that they are in line with the challenges we face. Yesterday, in Lisbon, a very important Recovery and Resilience Plan was presented and the President of the European Commission said that, in order to respond to the crisis, it was possible to reach an agreement to 27 which will mobilize resources of an unprecedented magnitude, saying, in good tune, that Portugal was, and is, a key partner in this work. In the coming years, Portugal will be available close to EUR 60 billion if all support mechanisms and instruments are taken into account. It is a lot of money, between deep-lost grants and loans, which can be used in whole or in part. Absolutely fundamental is to apply this money well, and if so, we can and should change the country's face for the better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A more qualified country with better jobs, a country with better paid jobs, a country with more competitive companies, a country with a more resilient, greener and more digital economy. On 15 October, the Prime Minister will present in Brussels the Recovery and Resilience Plan for Portugal, where investment in qualification, investment in innovation, investment in reindustrialization, investment in public administration, investment in territorial cohesion and investment in care for older people will be highlighted. The Strategic Vision for the Portugal Economic Recovery Plan 2020 - 2030, designed by Prof. António Costa Silva - is also important, and stands out here, and it is also important to thank Prof. António Costa Silva publicly for the effort, work, dedication and commitment he has lent, with his knowledge, to this cause, in a totally selfless way - an important document that resulted from the contribution of many, in a wide open and public debate, which included the participation of multiple citizens, associations, confederations, authorities, companies, universities, research centre, trade unions and a very large set of other agencies. This great debate alone demonstrates the great mobilisation and great interest of citizens and institutions in contributing to the future of the country and to economic and social recovery. We all have a great responsibility and, at the same time, a great opportunity to reinvent the country and to be born stronger. This is a role for all of us, without exception, to the whole Portuguese society and, for the most part, to all political parties with parliamentary seats. Portugal and the Portuguese would never forgive us if, on a devastating health crisis, a terrible social and economic crisis added an irresponsible political crisis, which would only contribute even more to the degradation of current circumstances by delaying or even calling into question the country's recovery. Each, within the role entrusted to him by the Portuguese, must assume his responsibilities, placing above all the national, Portugal and Portuguese interests, now and in the coming years. That's what the Portuguese demand of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u205	Mr President, the Bureau records six entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u206	Mr President, I will answer three and then the other three.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u207	So you have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Coimbra, we have listened carefully to the approach you have taken in your political statement on the question of the recovery and economic situation of the country. It should be stressed that the extent and severity of the problems facing the country require, together with responses and solutions to immediate problems, the adoption of a policy that breaks with the right-wing policy that over the decades has generated and accentuated them, opening the way to another direction that ensures the conditions for the sovereign development of the country, to overcome the main structural deficits, to value the wages and the rights of workers and to raise the living conditions of the people. There is no possible solution or response by insisting on the same options that were behind the dependence, fragility and conditionalisms that mark and remove the conditions of a sovereign development of the country. The immediate response to national problems is inseparable from options and decisions to be taken in the coming months. What is required is to take a turn in the options, criteria and priorities that condition and, to a large extent, prevent the development of the country. That is what I am asking you about, Mr President. After all, do you and the PS consider that this is the time to defend and value employment with rights, in the private and public sectors, to eliminate pay cuts associated with layoffs or new versions of such measures, to prohibit all redundancies, to ensure extraordinary support to those who have lost income, to strengthen social protection in all its dimensions — from unemployment to illness, from pensions to day care and homes — to ensure the effective functioning of public services and to reverse chronic under-financing and the lack of professionals, to support the activity of micro and small businesses? There are many complaints here about the situation of abandonment, in the absence of such support which simply do not reach the ground and which have already led the committee to approve the proposal from the CFP to call Mr Minister for Economic Affairs. Mr President, to conclude by agreeing, or not, that what the situation claims is not to stir ghosts or insinuate blackmails, nor merely statements of apparent distance from the PS with respect to the PSD, if the options that are to be adopted are essentially those that the PSD would adopt? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u209	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u210	Mr President, Mr Coimbra, I would like to congratulate you on bringing up such a current topic for discussion, because in fact the recovery programme is assumed as one of the main instruments of structural intervention, both from the point of view of the recovery of the economy and also of the quality of life of the Portuguese, but we have some fears that this unique opportunity will end up becoming a missed opportunity. Otherwise, it is our crucial duty that we do not intend to base the recovery of the economy on options and investments that cause great environmental impacts, whose contribution to the development of the country would be too doubtful. This crisis has also shown the strong imbalances that have been created in the relationship that Man establishes with nature and has also confirmed the great weaknesses of countries and peoples subordinate to a globalized model of growth and which is, above all, based on the extraction of natural resources and social and territorial inequalities. It is therefore necessary to ensure responses to the needs of the present, but to think of a future that is intended to be sustainable, where economy and production must be in line with the defence of nature and social justice. in this context, it gains particular focus not only on food sovereignty, but also on the conservation of nature, that is, two strategic pillars of resilience of any people. On the conservation of nature, Mr President, it is not only what is degraded that needs to be guarded, it is also necessary to preserve what is left to, in fact, have a greener country. On food sovereignty, first of all, it is important to value family agriculture which is undoubtedly the one most intended to guarantee that same sovereignty in a balanced, diversified and even closer way to consumers, in addition to other positive contributions that can bring, in particular, with regard to combating the desertification of the interior, against the abandonment of the rural world and against forest fires in a preventive perspective. I ask you, Mr President, whether both nature conservation and family agriculture are considered to be properly valued and are of some importance in this recovery and resilience plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u211	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u212	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all we congratulate the PS on bringing back this issue from the recovery programme. It is precisely because of the issue we have already discussed, that there are issues that we have had the opportunity to point out, in particular in environmental matters and also in territorial cohesion. Not wanting to repeat these concerns, there are some very concrete questions that we would still like to see clarified and, therefore, we will take advantage of this same opportunity. The first point concerns transparency in the recovery mechanism itself and also in the use of Community funds, because, in fact, there is a matter which is not yet quite clear. The NAP has envisaged and argued that there should be greater transparency, in particular a platform where it is possible to disclose everything that can be costed with this plan and with this economic recovery measure. This is a measure which has been defended by the IMF itself ( International Monetary Fund ) and which is already being followed by other countries, through the creation of this transparency portal in which all measures in this context are then envisaged, their budgetary cost, the number of beneficiaries, entities or criteria. We would like to know precisely whether or not the PS is available to follow us on a proposal from the NAP within the State budget itself, which fulfils this objective. Another point concerns justice, something that has already been brought here today by the CFP, but at the time we did not have the opportunity to congratulate and ask questions. We would like to highlight, in relation to the plan, that there are two characteristics that seem to be omitted. The first has to deal with, of course, with the fight against corruption and, to this extent, it seems to us that the plan is not ambitious, leaving in the drawer the realization of the Justice Pact, which provides for very important measures for this goal, such as the creation and installation of technical advisory offices for economic crime and combating corruption in the neighborhoods. It would be crucial for us to know how the PS will position itself in relation to the implementation of this measure. We must bear in mind that, from Friday until Friday, judicial officials will be on strike, which, in fact, highlights the need for more than pressing to make progress on these matters and the lack of resources that have marked justice. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u214	To answer this set of questions, I have the floor of Mr Pedro Coimbra of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u215	Mr President, I would first of all like to thank Mr Bruno Dias, Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mrs Inês de Sousa Real for the questions they have raised and for the interventions they have made. Starting with Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to say that of course the issues he raises are on the top priorities of all the action of the Government and the resilience plan to be presented on 15th. The honourable Member also had the opportunity to participate, as I did, in the hearing of Prof. António Costa Silva, and it is recalled that, in this plan, there is also a great bet — which has been emphasized by the Prime Minister — on the issues of employment, health and social benefits, which were the ones he put here. Much of what is intended to be investment in the coming years also goes by, as has been widely disseminated and as has been presented. I would also like to say to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, a little in the wake of this, that on matters of nature, environment and agriculture I can say exactly the same, i.e. they are also on the priorities of this political intervention and political action in the future, such as the question of cohesion of the territory. In fact, we know that a greener and more digital economy is also one of the major priorities for the next decade, being absolutely essential for all the policies of the country and, I would say, for Europe and the world, because it is, of course, in the first order of priorities of any responsible country. We didn't run away from that rule. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of course the questions she raises have to do with a very important theme which is also perfectly identified and highlighted in this plan, which is the investment in Public Administration. It is essential to provide the Public Administration with better conditions, enabling better service to the citizen, including what he has referred to — and well — and whether it concerns transparency in the application of the funds, or the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u216	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u217	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, they are obviously very relevant subjects, and they are precisely going through this modernization. For modernisation there must be investment and conditions must be created for this. That is exactly what is intended and that is certainly also a way to go in the next decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u218	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u219	Mr President, Mr Pedro Coimbra, I would like to thank you for the subject you have brought to this debate. At some point in his speech, he said that it is important to have responsibility at a time like this that we are going through. We all realize that this is a moment of crisis not only caused by the health issue but also by the economic and social crisis that we are going through and on which this Parliament has come to deal. So it is important to mention what we mean when we talk about responsibility, Mr. Speaking of responsibility, perhaps it was important to look at the failures of the strategic vision and also the recovery plan that was presented more recently. And I am obviously talking to you about wage and income issues that, both in the strategic vision and then in the recovery plan, are not, from our point of view, shaped as they should be. Since, in his speech, he also talked about what has been done in recent years in the area of income recovery policy, and it has been proved that this has enabled the crisis to be overcome, then at this point he seems to have completely forgotten that there is a need to maintain a path of recovery of income, wages, reforms and pensions, because that is the method of combating any crisis. About this, the papers didn't talk about it. One of the most terrible failures in these documents has to do with the labour code and the fight against precariousness. Now, in one of the replies you gave recently, you said that the Prime Minister would have tabled proposals to combat precariousness in the restructuring plan and possibly amendments to the Labour Code. I am sorry, but it does not present and there is nothing in these documents that tells us what the government, after all, in terms of work. That is where the emphasis is on what we want as a society and as an economy. Now, what has been said was very little, because the Prime Minister has spoken of the need to combat segmentation of the labour market and I tell him that this has served both for austerity measures as it can serve anything else. Therefore, responsibility is needed in defining what we really want. Mr President, I conclude by leaving the following question: within this responsibility, then, which side does the Socialist Party want to stay on? on the side of a response to the crisis that is innovative, that responds to wages, pensions and people...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u220	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u221	... or, then, on the side of the precariousness and the withdrawal of the New Bank, for example, what will remain or not? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u222	Mr Cristovão Norte, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pedro Coimbra, the PS is extraordinary, it is even unstoppable...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u224	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u225	...in this logic of the Government do everything at the service of the Portuguese and this plan of resilience and economic recovery, which, basically, nobody knows, be the alpha and omega of all the intervention that will rescue the Portuguese from this difficult situation. But, unfortunately, this idea is false. Does anyone know the plan? I don't know! Sir, do you know the plan? Show me the plan, bring him here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u226	Very well seen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u227	Yesterday, they made a presentation, a PowerPoint with 10 slides, but in particular, no one knows the plan. If we don't know the plan, how will we discuss it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u228	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u229	We can't say that the plan is good or bad or whatever it is! But, Mr President, this opportunity, as the Socialist Party Group takes advantage of it, to urge a plan that the country does not know, that the Assembly of the Republic does not know and that no one knows. The only thing we know is that everything in this familiar plan is priority. Mr Deputy, in his speech, said, when they told him about drought, it was a priority; then, when they talked about the environment, he said it was a priority; then, when they talked about agriculture, he said it was a priority. It was all priority! This is like a Bimby -- we put something in there and we don't know what comes out! You do not know what will come out and yet take advantage of this circumstance to another of those monstrous scenes that ultimately call into question what the government should do to help businesses, to save jobs, to ultimately give hope and the future to the Portuguese. in that, the government does not concentrate! We look around, we see tremendous breaks in employment and the economy, which are bigger than those of our European partners, and where is the government? What is the government doing to help those who are with the « creed in their mouth»? The only thing we still know from the plan are those intentions of an ideological nature that are not based on the best energies of society, on the capacity of private initiative, but rather on the fact that the state is the all-powerful, being the centre of the guidelines and, ultimately, being everything for any plan to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u230	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u231	So I ask you two very simple questions, the first being the following: after all, what is the priority? The second question is: when will the government look at this situation and take action with breath so that the country does not turn into a heap of rubble, with great economic losses, more difficult than those that already result from this critical situation that we are facing? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u232	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Pedro Coimbra and by thanking him for bringing this very subject here. The issue itself is important, but it would be more important, as it is evident, to bring us here the plan and that we could know it. It's hard to be here discussing a mere PowerPoint that has been distributed. I would say that there is some propaganda, as it is obvious, and that the Socialist Party knows how to present these things, always with very nice PowerPoints, but what is certain is that we do not have this same plan here. Therefore, it is important to put other questions that relate to the economic recovery of the country — that is, of course, important — but also to realize the coherence or inconsistency of the government itself. What did we know on September 14th? We have heard that the government is preparing a line of credit to finance tax payments. In other words, what the government says to liberal companies and professionals who have difficulty paying their taxes is: "There is no problem, we will find here a small line of credit for you to pay, because the state cannot go without revenue". The Socialist Party is more concerned about the state and what it feeds the state, which is tax revenues, than about companies. Then—it's remarkable! — we have come to know, now, days ago, that Portugal will dispense European loans, i.e. Portugal will only take advantage of the lost fund. And what is the reason for this decision, so that Portugal uses only the lost fund and not the loans? It's public debt! So let us look at public debt: when Dr. António Costa entered the government, the public debt was EUR 231 billion ; by 2020, 5 years later, he added EUR 37 billion. In other words, public debt is EUR 268 billion. This is how we will end the end of the year: with a public debt of 134 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). The question that arises, as is clear, is this: is the question of indebtedness only important to the State?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u234	I would like to draw your attention to your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u235	I'm done, Mr. President. Is indebtedness to companies, that, not relevant? Mr President, companies do not need credit lines to pay taxes. What they need is less taxes and less bureaucracy. And, I say more, they need less state. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u236	You have the floor to answer this set of questions, Mr Pedro Coimbra.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u237	Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Isabel Pires, Mr Cristóvão Norte and Mr João Gonçalves Pereira for the questions they have raised and for the interventions they have made. Mrs Isabel Pires, of course, the issue she has raised is also for the Socialist Party and surely for the Government, as has also been said, very important and relevant. It has already been stated more than since the path is not the loss of income. The path will continue to be, as in recent times, the recovery of income. This is an absolutely essential issue for the Socialist Party and the Government. This has been said at the seat of the Assembly of the Republic and has also been said by the Government and by the voice of the Prime Minister. So that's the way we're going to go. There is no doubt about that. The recovery of income, including the increase in the minimum order, as it has been programmed, is an absolutely essential issue for the PS and the Government of the Socialist Party. We therefore continue to refuse, even in the face of the difficulties that we have and that we cannot hide — they are evident throughout the world — a policy of austerity. Therefore, we are committed to this policy of investment and recovery of income. Mr Cristovão Norte, what you brought here was neither questions nor an intervention was an exercise of demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u238	It was the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u239	You said here that it is all priority, that there is no document, that there is no debate and that there is nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u240	Mr. Deputy said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u241	The honourable Member was in a parliamentary committee where the basic document Portugal will present in Brussels on 15 October for the recovery of the country in the next decade was presented. This is a document that was preceded by a broad public discussion and an absolutely significant contribution by civil society, which involved citizens and the most diverse entities, a rich and constructive debate. [[PSD and CH protests.]] So when you come here you say that there are no priorities is because you have not read the document. I should read it! When you come here to say that the government will not take action, you are saying that you have not read or have no knowledge of the document. I should read it and I should know it because it was actually presented in the parliamentary committee to which you belong and in which you are coordinator of your parliamentary group and preceded by a wide public debate! Mr João Gonçalves Pereira asked a relevant question which was addressed yesterday by Mr Prime Minister. He claims that the Prime Minister does not intend to use European Union loans to deal with the difficulties we have. That's not exactly what Mr. Prime Minister said. What Mr Prime Minister said was that for now he does not intend to use these loans because the Portuguese economy and the country are not in a position to use at the moment. That is no more than a responsible and serious attitude. You referred here to public debt. Public debt, until recently, was declining as a percentage, depending on GDP developments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u242	What about companies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u243	Public debt decreased and GDP increased, i.e. public debt decreased in relation to gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u244	I would like to draw your attention to your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u245	I will finish, Mr. President. Of course, with the economic and financial situation that we are going through, the public debt on the basis of GDP is increasing and, therefore, it says responsibility, says common sense and says the sense of State of the Prime Minister that it will not be appropriate at the moment to resort to these loans from Europe, which does not mean that it cannot be done. This is nothing more than a serious, responsible attitude, in the defence of the country and in the fight against a structural problem that we have, which is precisely Portugal's public debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u246	Mrs. Members, having completed the first item on the agenda, with the political statements, we move on to the second item, which is from the assessment of Petition No 57 / XIV / 1. a ( Joana Isabel Gentil Soares et al.) — Support for all children up to 12 years of age during the entire period of school suspension. I'm waiting for the ladies. Members joined the Bureau for their interventions. [[Pause.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition entered the House six months ago, asking for a set of support for children in the context of this pandemic, but the support that is necessary today has a quite different meaning because today we have to do everything possible so that the school does not stop, the school year is not suspended and our children and young people continue to have access to the social elevator that the school constitutes. Today, we must ensure that, between the rights of children and the pressures of teachers' unions, we choose children and their healthy development. Today we must ensure that there are no more inhuman guidance from the DGS, as was the case with the guidance on the isolation of children and young people at risk who were at home. Today, we must ensure that our children can practice sports, train and compete in all modes, which is not yet happening. Today, we must ensure that children have the freedom to develop themselves and have mental health care, whenever necessary, after so many months closed at home. The greatest support we can give to children, young people and their families today is even to adopt in all areas the strategy that the Liberal Initiative has so long advocated: to protect the vulnerable and encourage the healthier to overcome fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u248	Mr Bebiana Cunha of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the petitioners of this initiative, which came up at a time when we were all learning to deal with this health crisis and, quickly, these citizens and citizens organized themselves to respond to a specific problem, obviously, in a specific context and in a specific time. This specific time arose following the opinion of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Combating, on the basis of what was the risk scenario in Portugal, and at that time the Council of Ministers suspended educational and non-formal activities, since 16 March, seeking to contribute to the containment and mitigation of this new virus, at a stage in which little was known about it, and, as we well know, health services were not yet equipped, nor prepared, for a possible abrupt increase in new cases. Although with reduced preparation time, we also know that educational communities have been able to respond promptly, demonstrating high adaptability, despite all the difficulties encountered. The same happened with health professionals, education professionals and families, who concentrated all their efforts on this adaptation. But in addition to this necessary adaptation of educational communities, the decision to close educational and non-formal activities brought other obstacles to our country and to economic life and families. In fact, the children needed a rear end, while the school continued to carry out its mission at this time at a distance. A measure was required to ensure that parents could stay with their children while school establishments were closed. But this measure, which became effective, did not include the period of school holidays, based on the assumption that families would have to be on vacation at that time, thus ending support for families with children up to 12 years of age in this period of vacation. It is a fact that, at other times, many families found solutions, they resorted to other answers that are not their own for the children's holiday period, or by registering them in activities, or by providing support for fundamental references such as grandparents. But in a situation of confinement and emergency, such as what was experienced, these answers could not be activated, which left entire families without any other way of supporting their children but without missing their jobs, without this being an option with alternatives. We would like to say that, at the time, the NAP introduced a proposal to counter the solutions that seemed to be drawn in some sectors of activity and that required one of the parents, or one of the mothers, to take a vacation in that period or even to ask for medical leave when none of the elements were in a state of illness or to enjoy a holiday, which obviously seemed wrong to us. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u250	Mr Alexandra Vieira of BE has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block welcomes more than 4000 petitioners who have subscribed to the petition to maintain support for all school-age children up to 12 years of age during the school suspension period. Despite the fact that we are not currently in the period of stops of present educational activities, the petition made all the sense, insofar as extraordinary support did not include the period of interruption between 24 March and 6 April. Since, as a result of the pandemic crisis, the support to the family and the ATL (free time activities) of children were suspended and, because there were designated school holidays, they were only for the children, the correct maintenance of the possibility of parents who had to work during confinement could continue to enjoy exceptional support. I am glad that the Government has corrected the plan initially, by realizing that the organizations that promote the activities were closed during that period, precisely because of the state of emergency. This was always the position of the Left Block, which presented a proposal, not approved, in order to maintain support for the family during the educational interruptions. Going a little further before the pandemic, several families had difficulty accessing these activities. The difficulty remains and may even have been aggravated. The supply tends to decrease due to space constraints. In fact, the opportunity was lost to involve other places that allowed social distance and to relieve schools. In the Left Block, we will continue to present proposals for these and other issues of education, related to working families, so that they can leave their children safe and playful and learning activities. We believe that curricular enrichment activities, family animation and support activities and the family support component need to be expanded and improved, in a regime other than the current one, with public supply, tend to be free, more regulated, with less precarious work and decent wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u252	Mr Mariana Silva, Mr Dos Verdes, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To minimize the repercussions of closing schools in life and professional activities of many parents, were recognized by Decree-Law No. 10 -A / 2020 as justified failings without loss of rights, except in respect of remuneration, absences to work motivated by inappropriate care to the child or other dependent, under 12 years of age or, regardless of age, with disability or chronic illness. The Greens, as requested by the subscribers of this petition, consider that the exceptional support for the family, created by the decree referred to above, did not meet the needs of many families because they did not cover the period corresponding to the Easter holidays. In the absences to work, which occurred between March 30 and April 9 for assistance to children, although they are considered as justified errors, workers on behalf of others and self-employed did not benefit from any support. The government assumed that irrespective of the emergency situation we live because of the COVID-19, the parents would have a previous solution to end the Easter school break. However, in these periods of school holidays, parents usually resort to centres of occupational activities and private leisure or made available by the authorities, which were also closed by government determination. The use of older family members, particularly grandparents, from March to April, in the middle of the pandemic, has also ceased to be resolved because the health authorities have discouraged the follow-up of children by elderly relatives, who could possibly have some willingness to take care of and take care of their grandchildren. Many workers were forced to suspend their professional activity, through the marking of holidays or other mechanism, leading to a reduction in their incomes. In view of the need of parents to benefit from exceptional support during the Easter holidays, the Ecological Party "The Greens" presented Bill No. 264 / XIV / 1. not only to cover this holiday period, but also to extend support to parents with children under 15. However, this Green Party initiative was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS-PP, and the PSD leader came to call this and other proposals that met the demands of families, workers and small and medium-sized enterprises of parliamentary folklore. The petition we are debating here today, and which we take advantage of to greet, says well who is folklore in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u254	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would say, until this last intervention was given, that this was one of those rare moments when, more or less, we all agree, but I can no longer do it. But in spite of everything, we are close, Mrs Mariana Silva, because, in fact, in the substance of the petition, she asked that exceptional support be extended to parents of children under 12 years of age during the school suspension, we agree that it does not make sense to the point to which the government has come, which was the justification for the shortcomings, but without their remuneration. And it doesn't make sense because the principle for this exceptional support to be given was that it was maintained during the school break. In fact, the parents of children under 12 years of age — and perhaps that is the question that makes us distinguish — had no place to leave them and, in many cases, as has been said by the NAP, had to help themselves on vacation or medical certificates, which is not the intended solution or even the true one. The CDS also presented a project on 8 April, which was plunged by PS and PSD. Moreover, the subject of this petition has been exceeded by time, but this in no way removes reason from the petitioners who, in their substance, should have seen their cause approved by any of the projects that are here, provided they comply with the restriction of the 12 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u256	Also for an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Germana Rocha, from the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, of course, to welcome the signatories of the petition in question, which well demonstrates the concerns, anxieties and concerns of the citizens and more specifically of the families, whom I welcome in particular the effort they have made in this extremely difficult period, particularly at the stage when schools were closed, in which it was necessary to adopt exceptional measures to support families with children of school age who had to stay at home on a double or triple mission which, in addition to the family and work component, also had to accompany their children in distance education, thus constituting a huge challenge to achieve. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the current school year also faces new challenges, many anxieties and concerns, due to the pandemic situation in which the country is experiencing and with the emergence of several outbreaks in school context, the constraints on family life will continue to exist, requiring, therefore, by the Government, prompt, effective and appropriate responses to these new times, which do not deal with decisions on the knee and run after the damage with regard to the presentation of measures, as happened at the beginning of the school year, in which the government did not, as was its obligation, provide timely disclosure of the rules and guidelines to be implemented by schools. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the answer to these new challenges is not the existence of schools that cannot, due to the lack of adequate spaces, implement the rules defined by DGS, in particular with regard to social distance between students, do not involve students dividing the same portfolio in the classroom, it is not possible to unfold classes nor with the lack of conditions for the ventilation of spaces within the school. It is also not done with schools that, having suitable spaces for recreation or physical education practice, cannot use them due to the lack of authorization by the School Park, for the realization of works of adaptation of these spaces, as happens, for example, at the Clara de Resende school, in Porto, or with students who continue to have classes in containers because they have not been able to complete the works in these schools. The response to these new challenges is not due to the chronic lack of employees, whose reinforcement has been promised in successive announcements during five years of this government, which is a miracle of multiplication, but which continue to fail to reach our schools. And it is not, of course, without computers for students and teachers and much less without Internet access in many regions of the country, nor with the lack of conditions in the transport of students, due to lack of support, planning and adequacy to this new reality. But, of course, this serious and constant lack of answers to families, teachers, students, employees and the entire educational community will only lead us to irreparable losses, which will compromise the present and future of the present generations and of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u258	For an intervention, Mrs Lúcia Araújo Silva, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the petitioners who have subscribed to Petition No 57 / XIV / 1. the, today under discussion in this Chamber. The petition under consideration occurs following the health crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, which made it clear that we need to have a stronger, more robust and more inclusive social state, stressing that the social state, as it has already been here, in this Chamber, is a fundamental pillar of citizenship and economic development in a decent society. As to the content of the petition, petitioners investigate the form of justification for shortcomings and the extension of exceptional support to the family during periods of educational interruption. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government of Portugal, in view of the emergence of public health international, declared by the World Health Organization as a pandemic, on 11 March 2020 decreed the suspension of educational, non-formal and formative activities with the presence of students in public, private and cooperative institutions and the social and solidarity sector of pre-school, basic, secondary and higher education. In order to allow the necessary follow-up of children, the Government has declared the absences to work motivated by unacceptable assistance to children or other dependents under 12 years of age, or, regardless of age, with disability or chronic illness, resulting from the suspension of educational and non-formal activities present in school or social equipment supporting early childhood or disability, outside periods of formal interruptions. The government did not provide for the justification for failure to work during the school break. But in the face of the scenario, not only demanding but also constantly changing, the Government decided to strengthen the measures taken, strengthening the conditions attached to families in providing assistance to minors during the period of educational interruptions. This measure is thus part of a set of measures to support the family and the follow-up of children, such as the creation of exceptional support to the family for the follow-up of children under 12 years of age or, regardless of age, with disability or chronic disease. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, since March the Government has supported 1, 3 million Portuguese with measures to support the COVID-19 pandemic, with a particular focus on extraordinary support for families and simplified layoffs. Only the simplified layoff served as a protective cushion to some 849 thousand workers, thus mitigating unemployment. Also in the path of exceptional measures, within the framework of work and social security, I would like to remind this House of some of these measures: telework, extraordinary support for the maintenance of employment contracts to enterprises in situations of business crisis, the extraordinary training plan of the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e da Formatação Professional, I.P. ) the suspension of social security contributions, subsidies paid at 100 % and the payment, from the first day, of the sickness benefit, among many other examples that could be cited here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The moments that the country and the world live are unique, unexpected and timeless moments. However, we must not fail to highlight the measures of the Portuguese Government in the social responses. And here I would like to recall the words of the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who, more specifically, yesterday, here in Lisbon, did not spare praise for the innovation and resilience of Portugal and the Portuguese, recalling the country's exemplary performance in the fight against the pandemic of the new coronavirus, stressing, in this regard, the humility, responsibility and solidarity that Portugal has shown throughout this crisis, displaying the best of itself and the best of Europe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a cause that moves us all and that everyone must be responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u260	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. MP of the PCP, Alma Rivera.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the closure of schools, caused by the pandemic, thousands of children went home, raising the need for parental follow-up. This petition, which the PCP subscribers take advantage of to greet, arose precisely to demand a response to the complex situation faced by families, having to work and not see the holiday period covered by the support that was then granted. Regardless of the temporal horizon that the petition aimed at, what underlies it has relevance to future situations and call us to remind ourselves of something that the CFP has always said and that we reaffirm here: the right to follow up the child is, first of all, a right of the child. And this monitoring becomes even more important when other activities no longer exist, when there is a situation of disruption in their routines, activities and learning. It is at these times that children most need their parents' follow-up. We also recall another question that we pointed out, which is the following: follow-up cannot be confused with telework. If one of the parents is working on telework or not, he must be unable to accompany the children, so this right, which is, first of all, the child, cannot be challenged by one of the parents being on telework. It cannot, therefore, be allowed or tolerated what has happened. Workers who required the right of assistance to their children were harmed, and sometimes the first to be penalized and even dismissed, in the wave of verified runoffs, the covering of the pandemic. In the particular situation of Easter holidays, it was obvious that the claim in this petition was fair. All activities were interrupted, the equipment closed, the ATL interrupted, and, of course, it was necessary to avoid having to leave children with relatives, especially grandparents, for more than obvious reasons. At the time, we proposed eliminating the impediment to the allocation of support during school holidays and this was plummeted. We also proposed that it be extended to 16 years. It was not because of the lack of proposals from the CFP, whether by amendment of the decrees submitted by the Government, whether with its own initiatives, that a more complete response was lacking to ensure that parents were able to accompany their children. It was because of the lack of political will in this House. Now that children and young people return to schools and classes, they guarantee the conditions for this return to be done in the best way and with lower risks. The proposal of the CFP to strengthen the public school media, particularly with the hiring of all the workers necessary for the proper functioning of the school and the preservation of the health of students, teachers and employees, is adopted. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u262	As there are no more entries, I will finish this item on the agenda. We pass on to the assessment of Petition No 636 / XIII / 4. a (MASMI, represented by Ismael Squideiro Martins Duarte ) — They request the adoption of measures with a view to the re-qualification of the Pavilion 5 of the Sousa Martins Hospital, of the Local Guard Health Unit, together with the Resolution Projects Nos. 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to re-qualify the Pavilion 5 of Dr. Sousa Martins Hospital, 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the requalification of the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, in the Local Guard Health Unit, for installation of the Department of Health of Children and Women, 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government an absolute priority in the completion of the project to requalify the Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins, da Guarda, para Maternidad and Department of Health for Children and Women, 609 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Requalification of the Pavilion 5 of the Guard and Pavilion Hospital Dona Amélia and 613 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends the immediate reconstruction of Pavilion 5 of Sousa Martins Hospital for the installation of the maternal-child clinical area ( Guarda ). To present draft resolution No 547 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We now discuss this petition, which calls for the adoption of measures for the requalification of the ULS Pavilion 5 ( Local Health Unit) of the Guard, to install the Department of Health of Children and Women. It is a petition of July 2019 on a subject that has been dragged for many years, which brought together more than 18,000 signatures and, taking into account the draft resolutions under discussion today, it also seems to gather consensus from right to left. Synthetically, what happens is that, despite the Sousa Martins Hospital being accredited by WHO (World Health Organization ) and UNICEF ( United Nations Children's Fund) as a baby-friendly hospital, having specialized teams and having training qualifications, the building where the set of health services of children and women has no conditions. It has no security conditions at various levels and has no conditions of comfort and humanization compatible with what I previously described. This seems so evident that almost all parties ask for Pavilion 5 to be requalified to host these services, and obviously to relocate those there, including outpatient and stroke units (brain vascular accident). So the obvious question is this: if there is so much consensus, what has been missing so far so that this requalification could take place? This explains very simply: this work is covered by the second stage of intervention at the Sousa Martins Hospital, which has long years in its history, has a project since October 2016 and was contemplated in the first phase of the Regional Operational Programme of the Centre. In 2018, the Ministry of Health answered a CDS question on this issue, saying that since the value of the work had risen from EUR 2, EUR 5 million to EUR 6, EUR 7 million, it had required to restart the entire authorisation process. However, in 2019, the Government approved the PIAS ( Investment Programme in the Health Area ), excluding at that time the Hospital Sousa Martins, but in September of that year Mr. Prime Minister advanced with the guarantee of his own word that the work would be carried out. In February 2020, the Guard ULS announced that there was a new schedule of charges and applications for custody authorisations that were already in the final phase, but what is certain is that when we arrived at the 2020 State Budget, nothing appeared. And this is where I find it interesting to look at the Socialist Party's draft resolution, because, after a first page where it is said that the blame is for the previous government—it is the custom, I'm not going there anymore— it says: "From 2016 onwards, the objective of the Socialist Party's Government was becoming clearer and clearer..." — it was slowly becoming clearer and clearer! — «... and the thawing of the second phase of the Guard's hospital was first defined as a regional priority». It has been a priority since the first time in 2016, and it continues to be at the first moment in 2020, because we are on exactly the same site. Then it says this draft resolution that « despite some delays... » – 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020... ; yes, they are some delays! — «... progress is significant». And ask yourself: ‘ Where are we today? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” To this I can answer: we're more or less in the same place, which is nothing. Nothing happened. Since I know how to answer the question of the draft resolution—we are more or less on the same site, because not a single claim has been made—as we are close to the State Budget and as this is such a priority that it has been coming since 2016, I am sure that it will include the State Budget for 2021. There we will be to have that guarantee and to present this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u264	To present the Resolution Project No 555 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ), Mr Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are talking about a petition that has 18 661 subscribers, almost half of the population of the Guardate council, it is well noted, whose representatives are in the galleries and to whom I congratulate and comply with this huge demonstration of civicism, as well as politics, which cannot leave anyone indifferent. And so much nobody left indifferent that five parties—I repeat, five parties— took advantage of the initiative and advanced with draft resolutions on this matter. It is not important now to know who went ahead, who was the first or the last to present, what matters is that everyone is begging—I am no longer saying that everyone is asking for it, but that everyone is begging for it! — the Government has done what it has failed to do in the last five years, i.e. to requalify the maternal-child health facilities of the Guard hospital, which have, as you know who lives there or who is from there, as is my case, the valences of gynecology, obstetrics and pediatrics. For the record, this is responsible for all the parties that presented draft resolutions. From now on, we have moved from proclamations to more serious matters. No parliamentary group accepts the maintenance of the obsolete, degrading and unworthy state in which these facilities are located, which are completely incapable of serving the users and the services of merit and quality that have been provided there by health professionals. This means that, from now on, the Guard — the guard council, the guardians, the population of the whole district — is no longer only packed, because it was a little music that was past, with the promise of the former Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes, which was assured, in full local hospital, that in September 2018 the work would start. The irony of ironies—it even seems to be punishment! — he was dismissed the following day. It was not because of this, but he was resigned soon the next day and he was no longer able to fulfill his promise. But her successor, current Minister Marta Temido, has already gone to the Parliamentary Health Commission to ensure that the process was under way and that it was to be done. So, word of mouth, Mr. Prime Minister went there to the Guard — it is true that in the election campaign, in the heat of easy promises — in October 2019, exactly one year ago, he said this: «I come here to announce the thawing of this project and I promise to start with the work». This announcement was so naively — the word is mine — taken seriously that Mr Santinho Pacheco of the Socialist Party said that there was one before and after and that it was the word of Mr Prime Minister. Yes, sir, it's already a year ago and then it's exactly the same thing: nothing! We're exactly the same. But go...! Now, the PS comes, a little anecdotally, to recommend itself—what you are doing is to recommend yourself, to support the government—to do a work that you yourself have not wanted to do or have entered into the State budget. It is absolutely extraordinary and therefore they need to be able to recommend to yourselves that they do what they don't want to do. This would laugh if we weren't dealing with very serious matters. By the way, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has already presented a challenge to you and I have come back to this challenge: are you in a position to ensure that in the next State budget, which will start to be discussed, there are money to build this Pavilion 5 from the Guard's hospital? If you're not there, what are you guys doing? Members of the Socialist Party, who support the government, do they? Don't you vote for the Budget? Put your head in the sand? What are they doing? Think about this, because this responsibility that you have from now on is no longer any responsibility, it is a very serious matter indeed. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not think that with this circus maneuver of the draft resolution the Guardians will drown and shut up. No, don't think about it. The PS and the government have to say once and for all, without subterfuges, eyes in their eyes, whether or not they will start with the second phase of the Guard's hospital. As you know, the second phase of Guard hospital is much more than Pavilion 5 and covers a much broader set of buildings and valences. Do you have that guarantee or do you not? Can you give it here or can you not? It is also time to clarify how and when obscene waiting times will be reduced for consultations and surgeries in that hospital. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to being able to only get sick in a few days, because in others there are no specialists to treat people, what happens in some specialties makes anyone desperate. Until I noted the waiting times, not to be fooled: three years and seven months by a cardiology consultation; two years by a dermatology consultation; one and a half years by a neurology consultation; and almost three years by a ophthalmology or orthopaedic consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u266	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u267	I conclude, Mr President, by saying the following: it is precisely because of this disease, which treats the guardians so badly, that the government also has to answer, but on this it has done as the ostrich. And I'm sorry to say what the ostrich does: put her head in the sand and we can't even know if she's blushing or not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u268	To present draft resolution No 595 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ), Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u269	Mr President, it is not worth waiting for much time, because the dust raised by Mr Peixoto has already laid everything down and, therefore, we are going forward very quickly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is a good day for the Guard and an important day, I think, for the Assembly of the Republic. When the people claim, the Members recommend and the Government does, as is the case, the total consecration of respect for sovereignty and constitutional legality. As a man of the Guard, of this ancient land, full and beautiful, my gratitude for the political support for strengthening such fair petition. Allow me a special greeting to the representatives of MASMI, Movement of Support for Maternal and Child Health of the Guard District, to the first subscriber, Ismael Squideiro Duarte, here present, which is the face of the 18 661 signatures collected in a presence by the Ambassadors of the Movement in all lands of our district. Well, there's everyone. The history of health care provision in the Guard is marked by the Sanatorium Sousa Martins and the Park of Health. The first scientific expedition to the Serra da Estrela, including doctor Sousa Martins, wanted answers to many questions, including the cure of tuberculosis. The cold and dry air of the Guard, a leafy forest and altitude determined the decision to build the sanatorium, opened in 1907. Half a century later, new facilities were built, the same ones where services still work today such as maternity or medicine. The fight for a new hospital in Guarda is being dragged for decades and community membership has strengthened the hope of health professionals and the general population. The Cavaco Silva governments finally chose to build new hospitals in several cities, including Viseu or Covilhã, and the Guard stood in the middle, wounded lamb, with the civil society departure, divided into contradictions. Twenty years later, finally, it was a PS government that met the most important and ancient demands of the Guard : the new hospital. It was a two-phase project. The first phase would be a new hospital, a two-storey building, plus two underground parking, modern and ready for everything, including even, see there, the COVID-19! Some, so light as to criticize and demonstrate their ignorance, have only now discovered that it served the alleged waste of two large parallel corridors, for dirty and clean, positive and negative. The justification for ULS Guard's choice as a COVID hospital, the first in the central region, was also there. Once at the service the new hospital would then be executed the second phase of the project: the recovery of the facilities of the 1950s. This alone justifies the importance of this second stage. Does anyone think that the new hospital, not to be expected to recover the « train building» — the nice way in which we identified the old part of the hospital — would it be approved superiorly without mother-child service and without medicine? Minister Paulo Macedo, in the PSD/CDS government — listen carefully! — with one sentence, he cut his wings to sleep: the new hospital had been the most expensive in the country by square metre, and not to think of the second stage. But what about maternity, what would it be like? With staff of excellence and internationally classified as « baby-friendly hospital», we could not wait decades. It was then that the Board of Directors of the ULS launched the idea of adapting Pavilion 5 to maternal and child health. Without approved functional programme, without completed implementation project, without authorised investment, the application for PO (Operational Programme) Centre 2020 has not been admitted. The situation in 2017 was an absolute mess. They were worth the commitment and dedication of the new Board of Directors, which addressed Pavilion 5 as a priority. And together, government, Members and citizens, we managed to untie the various nodes and make the project a reality. In September 2019 the Prime Minister, António Costa, said, loud and sound, in the center of the Guard, that the second phase of the Guard's hospital was to advance and advance. The « train building » will be recovered and adapted to various valences that are priority in the region and in the country, without forgetting that it is the nearest hospital to the border territories of Spain. Pavilion 5 is only the first phase of the second phase. The PSD now comes to beat his hand in his chest and to try to save his face, because it was the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Macedo, with the welcome of local social-democrat authorities and leaders, the responsible for canceling the second phase of the hospital. Well the President of the Municipal Council of the Guard can, as he did yesterday, take the PSD pains and demagogically present motions to demand the second phase of the Guard hospital. It will soon serve them this desperate attempt to want to see who more capitalizes to better position himself internally as a candidate or PSD candidate to the Guard House. The guards don't want to know about partisan guerrillas, they solve them inside the house! The guards want and deserve the second phase of their hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u270	Do the play!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u271	And the Guardians know that for this they can rely on the Government of the Socialist Party and on the commitment made in the Guard by the Prime Minister. [[The PSD Member Carlos Peixoto's laughs.]] The motion voted yesterday at the Municipal Council of the Guard, knowing that there would be this session today, demanding this and that, is an atrocious ridiculous. Down there, they don't want anything; only what's bad for the Guard is good for the PSD! [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u272	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u273	I'm done now, Mr. President. So far, all decisive steps have been taken to implement the work of Pavilion 5, this first significant step: we have approved the functional program and the procedure for acquiring the implementation project, whose competitors' proposals are already in the process of analysis and evaluation. The investment of €6,945 000 obtained the prior favourable opinion of the ARS Centre ( Regional Health Administration of the Centre ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u274	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u275	I will finish, Mr. President. As soon as possible, the procedures leading to the execution of the second phase of the Guard's hospital will be followed-CL, fulfilling the commitment of António Costa. As always, the PS is with the Guard to respond to its structural problems, health, rail, cross-border relations. I shall finish with a vote: that the Iberian summit that meets for the week in Guarda, be a success in accordance with our ambitions! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u276	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to congratulate, first of all, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the Maternal Child Health Support Movement of the Guard and, obviously, the nearly 19,000 petitioners—and not only to congratulate, but also to thank them for the opportunity that we have to hold this debate. I believe that the great word that the Left Block Parliamentary Group has to give the petitioners is that they are indeed right. They are right when they say that the population, the guard district, the region obviously needs a better National Health Service. Are they right when they implicitly claim that the National Health Service needs more investment—in fact, what better time than this, exactly, to see that what is needed in the country is more investment in the National Health Service? They are right, the petitioners, when they say that Hospital Sousa Martins serves the whole district—only for this reason, it is of the greatest importance—and it has valences, particularly in the area of maternal-child health, which are of the greatest importance, because if they do not exist there, some of them, probably only in Coimbra, which would force enormous displacements. And they are also right when they say that the work that the professionals there are doing is, in fact, the best that is done in the country. It is unfortunate that the infrastructure conditions do not accompany the work of professionals and the importance of this hospital unit to the region and the country. Therefore, they are also right when they call for the re-qualification of the so-called "Friendly 5" for the installation of maternal-child services, because they say, and we follow this interpretation, that this re-qualification will improve the safety of users and professionals, will improve the comfort and humanization of services, which is obviously important in all areas, especially when we talk about maternal-child health, and will also improve SNS and health in the region, to which we add that, in an area that is often debated with the difficulty of capturing and fixing health professionals, better conditions — re-qualification, better infrastructure, better equipment — it can also be a way to capture and fix more professionals in that hospital, in that local health unit, and there, for example, to contribute to the reduction of waiting lists, of waiting times, in the region. Therefore, the project presented by the Left Block meets the petitioners' demands. We obviously want to re-qualify Pavilion 5 for the installation of quality services of the various valences that make up maternal-child health. But we want more than that. We have already spoken here today in the second stage, which is not a novelty, it did not appear yesterday, it is not something that has not been discussed in the past. Therefore, it seems to us that, in order to meet all this, to improve the National Health Service, to improve the provision of health care to the population of that district, it is necessary to re-qualify the Pavilion 5, but also the second phase is necessary in full. In fact, there are already various projects and discussions on the subject. The buildings of the old sanatorium, from the so-called 'train' to buildings such as the Dona Amélia Pavilion and its twin, must be re-qualified, obviously. No one can understand that, in a country and in a region where there are still health needs, if it is de-used and has been completely abandoned, some completely degraded, almost at risk of overthrow, when research centres could be placed there, as mentioned in the past, services of complementary means of diagnosis, laboratories, endoscopy services, visual health, psychological health, oral health. There is so much that needs to be done in the SNS, there is so much need for health and there is so much built that it is necessary to take advantage and requalify. We therefore follow these demands and agree that it should also be placed on the table, once and for all, the question of the implementation of the whole so-called second stage. With so many draft resolutions, of so many parties, so many words that seem to be consonant, finally, the only expectation is that this becomes a reality as quickly as possible. That's the expectation of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u278	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Duarte Alves has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, the civic movement that launched this petition and all those who have mobilized towards the immediate reconstruction of Pavilion 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins for the installation of the maternal-child clinical area. The pandemic situation we face has shown that the National Health Service is truly the guarantor of Portuguese health. As successive Governments of PS, PSD and CDS have dedicated themselves to diverting SNS resources to private health groups—or, better said, to private groups of the disease business—, the PCP always intervenes in order to strengthen the SNS, its public character, universal, general and free. And we have always done so with the full awareness that the SNS will only fulfill this role if all citizens, regardless of the region of the country where they are, are guaranteed equality in conditions of access to health services. The PCP has denounced, on many occasions, the asphyxiation of material resources and human resources for the proper functioning of the various areas of intervention of the National Health Service in the Guard district. The need to ensure the existence of maternity at Sousa Martins Hospital, as well as the defense of pediatric valence, has been the subject of demands from the population of the entire district and the intervention of the CFP, and it is in this sense that the CFP presents the draft resolution we are discussing today. As has already been said, there are several projects from other parties, but the PCP is the only one that, in addition to the construction of the Pavilion 5 and the installation of the maternal-child clinical area, also recommends that the professionals needed to implement these valences, including specialists in obstetrics and pediatrics, obstetrics, pediatricians, anesthetists, operational assistants, among others. We hope that the other parties will not stay on the flag walls and follow the PCP initiative to strengthen the human resources, even because health professionals in the Guard district have contributed, in a dedicated and generous way, to the provision of excellent health care, particularly in the department of children and women, as has already been mentioned in other interventions, despite chronic underfunding and degradation of facilities. It is also necessary to ensure early rejuvenation of teams so that the experience of these professionals can be passed on to new professionals. Even with regard to the reconstruction of Pavilion 5, it is important to clarify one aspect: we do not accept a minimalist perspective on the requalification of this flag. Investment must have a long-term perspective, with more and better public response, extending the different levels and organizational models of the services to be installed. Mrs. Members, the concern about the establishment of the population in the interior and the birth rate is often mentioned by all political forces—see that we even have a Ministry of Territorial Cohesion. But there is no territorial cohesion, there is no fixation of population in the interior without the guarantee of public services of quality, in particular in the SNS. Decades of destruction and degradation of public services, lack of public investment, responsibility of both PS and PSD governments and CDS have created real entropies to the lives of those who are in the interior regions, from then on in the Guard district. The immediate reconstruction of Pavilion 5 and the installation of the maternal-child clinical area is essential to provide safety conditions for families who wish to have children and thus encourage birth, so important for our country; it is essential to improve the provision of services in the SNS and give proper working conditions to their professionals and thus contribute to the establishment of population in the Guard district. The commitment of the CFP is everything to ensure that this aspiration of the populations is rapidly and adequately met, which requires the Government not only its budgeting but, above all, its implementation, so often set aside in the name of the accelerated reduction of the deficit, which, after all, has served little. The populations of the Guard district cannot continue to wait. This fundamental investment for the region needs to be realized. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u280	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the Guard district, on average, over 800 babies per year were born in recent years, two thirds of which at Sousa Martins Hospital, which has, among other things, the valences of Pediatrics, Gynecology / Obstetrics, Pediatric Emergency and Obstetrics installed in a centenary building. Although the Guard hospital has high quality maternal-child services and recognized merit, with competent and dedicated health professionals, and having adequate equipment, it is recognized the need to improve the facilities of this hospital, for reasons of security, comfort and humanization of services. In view of the evidence that the facilities did not meet the appropriate conditions, in 2016, was announced by the Local Guard Health Unit, the requalification of the flag where the emergencies worked between 1997 and 2014, to install there all the services that integrate the Department of Child and Woman Health. However, in view of the urgency of this intervention and given that the project did not go through an intention in 2018, a petition was promoted, signed by more than 18 000 people, that The Greens take advantage to greet, demanding that the requalification of the Pavilion 5 and the placement in the same pavilion of the maternal-child centre be carried out. The petition reveals the concern of the population of the Guard district regarding the need to improve and have services dedicated to quality maternal and child health, which promotes the health and well-being of women and children. Despite the announced authorization of the Minister of Health, in May 2019, to move forward with the work of requalification of the Pavilion 5, the truth is that only last August opened the competition for « Development of Studies and Projects for the Requalification of Building 5 of Hospital Sousa Martins for Installation of the Department of Children and Women ». Quality public health services are essential to fix populations in the interior and promote birth. Improving and strengthening public services within is a contribution to the cohesion of the territory, and the commitment to health services should be one of the main priorities of this Recovery and Resilience Plan that the Government has presented, and that we have heard so much. The Greens therefore follow the parliamentary initiatives presented here and reinforce the idea that, in addition to providing the hospital with good facilities, ensuring working conditions and quality of services, measures should also be taken to recruit more health professionals, particularly specialists, to the new maternal and child centre of the Hospital Sousa Martins. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u282	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mr André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u283	Mr President, the arrival begins by welcoming the more than 18,000 petitioners for resistance and resilience, because it is indeed resilience and resistance that is necessary. On September 8, 2019, António Costa promised to freeze the second phase of the Guard hospital. I said this at a council, in the City square, according to, it was also recalled today by the Socialist Party Member. Yesterday and yesterday, we learned that you are in studies, that the competition has been opened, that you will continue to wait and that there is no expected date to move forward. This is how we continue in the socialist kingdom, saying that « one day we will do the works we want, it is all a priority». It is important to say that, in the State Budget for 2020, after this proposal has been made, no money has been included for the maternal and child health of the Guard. MASMI considered the facilities unworthy of this century and, nevertheless, was not included in the State Budget for this year no remodelling of the facilities. The big question that remains, and that is what these more than 18,000 petitioners want to know, is this: will we or will we not change things in this State budget? It's just that the other one's past.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u284	I would like to draw your attention to the time spent, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u285	I will finish, Mr. President. Now, it is time to know who is interested in emptying Sousa Martins Hospital, who has an interest in it, what kind of interests there are in it, and, above all, whether the PS, with its left-wing partners, will or will not make available a statement from the State Budget to finally give action to such an important work.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-30.u286	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with no further inscriptions, our agenda is finished. It is up to me now to read the agenda for the next plenary session, which will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. First of all, we will proceed to the joint assessment, in general, of Bill Nos 473 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Approves the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Digital Age and 498 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves the Charter of Digital Rights and a set of additional measures to ensure that citizens' guarantees in the digital field are strengthened. Secondly, we will proceed to the evaluation of draft resolution No. 532 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures to identify and solve the problem of households in an irregular or illegal situation. Then, we will jointly, in general, appreciate Law Projects Nos. 484 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a maximum ceiling for the value of 2. o is 3. studies and postgraduate cycles in public higher education, 492 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Elimination of tips in public higher education and 497 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the change in the value of the tips of professional higher technical courses, 2. o is 3. the cycles of studies in public higher education. Fourth and last, we will proceed to the joint assessment, also in general, of the Lein. 18 / XIV / 1 Projects. a ( PCP ) — Improves the allocation rules and changes the duration and amounts of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit, 491 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Increases the guarantees of beneficiaries of unemployment benefits under the rules relating to vocational training by amending Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November and 495 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends and improves access conditions and periods of unemployment benefit and social unemployment benefit( 17 ). the amendment of the Legal Protection Scheme in Employment ). For today, that's all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. I wish everyone a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 56 minutes.]]
