ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us some information of great interest. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u2	Mr President, very late to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. First, I refer to Law Nos 26 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves an exceptional and transitional regime for the conclusion of debt regularisation agreements within the water and sewage sector, 27 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes and guarantees the responsiveness of local authorities in the context of the disease pandemic COVID-19, 28 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims and 29 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs tax measures and extends the threshold for the granting of guarantees under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. The following Bills were also entered into the Bureau: No. 337 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 13 March, establishing exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic in the cultural and artistic context, which falls to 12. the Commission ; point 338 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April enabling the examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary education, which falls to 8. the Commission ; No 339 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens social protection for business managers, which falls to 2. the Commission ; point 340 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020 of 6 April establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19, which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 341 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Bans the distribution of dividends in the bank, in large companies and economic groups, which goes down to 5. the Commission ; and No 342 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional and temporary measures to support the media sector, including local radios, local and regional press, LUSA - Portugal News Agency and RTP - Portugal Radio and Television, SA, and to safeguard the rights of workers in the sector, which falls to 12. the Commission. The following Resolution Projects were added to the Bureau: No 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the « Emergency Check » for micro and small enterprises whose activity has been suspended, which falls to 6. the Commission ; point 398 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government study and consider the award of an extraordinary remuneration for recognition to professionals in the front line in the fight against COVID-19, which falls to 9. the Commission in connection with 10. a and 13. a Commission ; No 399 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for responding to the needs of persons with disabilities under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 ( initial text replaced at the author's request ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; point 400 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, resolve the computer problems that prevent the increase in the wages of health professionals, which falls to 9. the Commission ; point 401 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary investment in small publishers and self-employed bookstores in response to the economic crisis, which falls to 12. the Commission ; point 402 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government strengthen security measures, including more police in areas identified as drug trafficking, prostitution and crime, in particular at a time when the population is confined due to the pandemic caused by COVID-19 ; No 403 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional social support and economic recovery measures for the city of Ovar, relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus-COVID-19, which falls to 10. the Commission ; and No 404 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow national examinations to improve the final classification, which falls to 8. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u3	Before I get on the agenda, I would like to ask the services to be able to offer the ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are in large numbers here, are able to register for the purpose of verifying the quorum of votes so that they can then act in accordance with their political and personal conscience. I therefore call for this phase of presence to be opened for quorum purposes. We will begin our work with the presentation and discussion of the Implementation Report of 2. the Declaration by the State of Emergency for the period from 3 to 17 April 2020, and used to greet the members of the Government present. For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject of this item is the presentation and discussion of the report on the implementation of the second period of declaration of the state of emergency, which was from 3 to 17 April 2020, such as the honourable Members. Members know, but at this stage, which is certainly the last plenary meeting of the Assembly of the Republic in the context of the state of emergency, I would like to point out that the success of the implementation of the state of emergency in containment and, at this stage corresponding to the second declaration, in mitigating the effects of the pandemic is largely due to the brand that the Government highlights in this report: the deep social awareness of Portuguese society and the way in which citizens have adhered and understood that these restrictions on freedoms were proportionate and appropriate to a challenge we had never faced. This also applies to the great convergence between all sovereignty bodies — the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic and the Government, which carried out this declaration — which marked this second period, on the pedagogical form as the recommendation has always been privileged in relation to an intervention of a penal or repressive nature, which has contributed to generally quite satisfactory results. This period also corresponded to a time when a greater movement of people, including the Easter period, had adequate and balanced responses that also allowed a involvement of the security forces and services, which always had full operational capacity to support citizens, not only in these measures but also in others, from food to isolated elderly, to deliver educational materials to students, preparing the study at home. in this period, it would also highlight the application of specific measures in which the role of the five State Secretaries to whom coordination functions were assigned at the regional level was decisive for a systematic plan to carry out tests to workers and users of the homes of the elderly. in this period, it would also highlight the internationally recognized priority of accompanying migrant workers and asylum seekers as particularly fragile sectors. Finally, I would like to point out that this fortnight was crucial for deepening the results that allow us to be today, although not in this debate, to discuss how to start leaving the state of emergency, as well as the unique role of the National Health Service (NSS ) and health professionals, whose ability to respond, either to hospitalization or to intensive care units, was always appropriate and never even approached exhaustion. Thus, together with this national consensus, we will be able to reach the third stage and, above all, begin to face a future without an emergency state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u5	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: As I have only one minute to talk about a 260-page report on an emergency state against which I voted, you will have to understand that I only make four brief notes. The first is to say that, in this report, it is clear that there has been enormous confusion throughout this second emergency period around the tests, their availability, use and priorities, and the absence of a true test strategy, without which it is difficult to define a strategy for the exit of confinement. Second note: in this second period of the state of emergency, according to the PSP and GNR data contained in the Report, by my accounts, there were 205 persons arrested and deprived of their liberty for some time, it is not known how much, by the crime of disobedience defined in terms of the state of emergency. It was 205 people in 15 days, a number that gives you thought. Third note: there is no mention or reference to the provision of data to the scientific community. It is something we have often insisted on, but today there are still complaints about the access and quality of data by this scientific community. The fourth note— interesting and picturesque! — that is to say, on page 244 of the report, that the Under-Secretary of State and Justice would prefer that the monitoring structure not be included in the report. It would have been a good example of transparency! The Liberal Initiative welcomes the close end of the state of emergency for a number of reasons, one of them being that we will not have to comment on these reports for much longer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u7	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members : We looked at the second state of emergency report and, in fact, it was the Portuguese consciousness that enabled us to achieve the results achieved. We had a second emergency period marked by the release of prisoners, a release which the newspapers did not fail to notice about the renewal of criminal practices that were then true and gave reason to those who, from the beginning, said that this would happen. After all, yes, we had dangerous prisoners out here and, after all, we had new prisoners committing new crimes. She agreed to know how many and she wanted to know how, since, apparently, the Minister of Justice still does not have the data to enable this to be understood. We also realize that, in some parts of the country, we have some uncontrolled immigration, which has generated even new outbreaks, as happened in Lisbon, in some hostels that we will still hear and that we will certainly still discuss in this House. We end up with a confusion between disaster and emergency, which the government will not be able to discuss properly the terms in which it occurs. We went from an emergency to a disaster without even realizing how we will achieve, in a state of disaster, restrictions that are very close to those of the state of emergency. I ask you, Minister : how will we restrict mobility in the state of disaster, since the best constitutionalists in our country question this possibility?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u9	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, how are we going to pass the message to the Portuguese people that we're leaving from an emergency, we're going to a disaster and then we don't know where we're going? It is a great confusion of concepts that should be clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u11	At the quorum check we already have 116 registered Members. I'm asking the ladies. Members who have already registered and who do not want to keep this view on their terminals who load where they say'minimize window'. Others who can arrive can always register. The floor is now for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we read the Implementation Report of 2. the Declaration of the State of Emergency, we remain convinced that the Portuguese would comply with all these measures without the need for this drastic measure which implied limitations on the freedoms, rights and guarantees of the citizens. in this report we are presented with successful air measures, such as in agriculture, where we are talking about channels of marketing food so that it is possible to flow local products. We can then read that the Minister of Agriculture has called for the reopening of the municipal markets, but this is not a mandatory measure, and it is certain that this opportunity has not been taken to extend the number of local markets, many of the time products have been sold, with the problems inherent to small farmers. The question is how many markets have reopened and where were the products intended for restaurants and hotels. In the case of public transport, there was funding for operators to carry out essential services, but it was allowed to reduce schedules and rolling stock, forcing workers to use full public transport and without any possibility of social withdrawal. Has the state of emergency foreseen the guarantee of public transport? And, after 3 May, will it be possible to comply with social withdrawal recommendations in public transport? Life shows that the state of emergency did not serve to combat the jungle in which labor relations were transformed. We can read that the companies that most resorted to layoff were small enterprises and that the averages and large enterprises account for only 4 % of the nearly 84 000 employers. However, the question is this: what percentage of workers represent these 4 %? The problems lie ahead and the measures that have been taken do not stop us, because we continue to see the number of unemployed rise to the exact extent that requests for aid for food and to meet the costs that remain. in this report it was also not possible to understand how many illegal redundancies took place and what the intervention of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) to respond to workers. On the other hand, what we do not read in this report is that environmental protection measures have been taken. We do not read in this report, nor in the previous report, that APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) has maintained its monitoring and that environmental attacks and their perpetrators have been identified. Yes, because they exist! Although some aspects have improved, such as air quality and noise reduction, there are other challenges to the environment, and it is necessary, more than ever, to strengthen the monitoring teams and environmental protection measures, so that it does not fall into the forgetfulness on behalf of a recovery of the economy at any price. More than talking about what the report says, we need to clarify what it does not say and why it does not say.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u13	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, of the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The report we are discussing here today, in line with what has already been the previous one, demonstrates how the Assembly of the Republic decided well when, with broad consensus, it voted favourably either the declaration of the state of emergency or the two renewals that followed it. It is now almost unanimously recognized, even internationally, that the response of Portugal and its citizens was absolutely decisive in order to prevent the extension of the damage caused by COVID-19 in other countries, some of which are very close to us, if they would also reflect in Portugal. And that is, we did not stink at affirming it, a victory for the collective effort of all of us. That is why it is difficult for us to accept that, after a month and a half of a tremendous collective effort, if we are hastening a supposed return to normality and, with that, to hypothesize everything that has been good achieved in the fight against this health crisis. Even more when it is not clear from the report here under discussion is a more serious scenario from an economic and social point of view than the one that already existed when we evaluated the first renewal of the state of emergency. Let it be clear: the economic situation is serious, we are all aware of it, but it was already at the time of the evaluation of the first report. As a result of the suspension of activities, the negative impact on the sectors of restoration, housing, trade in motor vehicles, furniture or textiles, among many other examples, remains the concern about the preservation of employment and the liquidity, or lack of it, of economic operators; the uncertainty about the income of families remains, and we also see the difficulties of the State in ensuring the social support it has linked. We cannot fail to mention — until April was the month devoted to combating violence and child abuse — that remains concerned about the effect that excessive confinement can have on the prevention and support of victims of domestic violence, child violence and violence against the elderly. However, what is also maintained, in parallel with the functioning of essential services that allow the existence of health care, food and other fundamental goods, is a worrying epidemiological scenario, identical to what existed in the first report. Therefore, the concerns expressed at that time and which they dictated—and well! — that the country insists on the precautionary measures it has taken, they cannot be different from what we are expressing here today, just because we need to be different. The fact is that this report shows that the health and physical integrity of citizens must continue to be the priority of the State. It shows that the relief of containment measures is dependent on being able to significantly reduce the likelihood of the virus spread and to ensure the response capacity of the National Health Service to defend the population and its professionals, which, even at this time, we have not yet achieved. There are some gaps and lacks of response, in particular with regard to individual protective equipment, whose supply shortage at the same time exposes the inconsequentialness of diplomatic efforts in the acquisition of these products and the lack of productive capacity on the part of our country of these same goods, absolutely necessary in contexts such as the current one. It is especially revealing that, of the 1151 fans acquired by the Central Health System Administration (ACSS), only 13 were delivered in that period!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u16	I conclude now, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all realize the urgency of having the economy working again, we all realize that every new day the situation gets worse. But what we also realize is that this is a situation that we do not dominate and that, for this reason, it cannot be economic issues — and even less ideological ones — to dictate the lifting of the state of emergency and thus the premature relaxation of the health measures, which are still necessary, as well as the premature end of certain measures to support people, when the social emergency situation remains and gets worse every week. This is still the moment of health struggle; it is the time when the State must take on the protection of people's health and the success of social, economic and labour responses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u17	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u18	I very much conclude, Mr President. The lifting of the state of emergency at this time may even be a popular measure, paying attention to the degree of accumulated saturation, but do not notice what most important each of us has, which is life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u19	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying that this debate today is a bit strange. It is here that we are discussing what happened on the second half of April on the day when Mr Prime Minister is going to present — moreover, he began to anticipate yesterday, in the round of talks with the parties - on the one hand, the passage from the state of emergency to the state of disaster and on the other hand the so-called 'plan of defination'. by saying this, I do not stop thanking the members of the Government for their presence here, but I say that, in my view, the Government should have come to this House today not so much to discuss this report but to present what, as far as we know, Mr. Prime Minister has been presenting and which, as far as I understand, will present later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u21	Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u22	Yes, Mrs. Member, to Parliament! Is it weird? No, it's not weird! Parliament does not only serve to discuss what happened 40 years ago or 15 days ago. It serves, what has been done in other Parliaments by this outside Europe to discuss and to present here, at the heart of democracy, the defination plan — that is, in the opinion of the CDS. On the other hand, trying to be useful, I would like to remind the Government that this report, like the previous report, is omitted in many data, there is a lack of data. There is a lack of data about what the government did exactly and when it began to do so, there is a lack of data about the material that was purchased, about how and when it was acquired, and there is a lack of data about what is being done. Anyway, there's a lot of data missing. And if data is missing, sometimes the self-reliance remains a little. I would say until, from a solidarity perspective, the government could try to avoid, especially in this context, this self-reliance, because, often, this self-reliance is very close to propaganda. I am thinking, for example, of a recent interview given to various social media bodies, including international ones, by the former Member of the Health State Secretary, our former colleague here, in this House, in which he says « we have begun to prepare everything since the end of January». However, this report does not say, as the previous report did not say, when the Portuguese Government — and the CDS has already asked it orally and in writing — began to acquire the essential equipment to combat this pandemic. You don't know! So this kind of statement then collides with reality, as it does with reality—and Mr Minister often spoke to us about Portugal as the example of a country of integration of immigrants, etc. — the overwhelming image of the hostel where the immigrants lived in the sauce, without a minimum of conditions in terms of facilities, as the reference to the layoff actually shocks, a large measure which was changed five times, but a good measure, with which we agreed and approved. But yesterday Mr Economics had to come to say that it was really a disappointment, because 40 % of the applications from companies for membership of the layoff were not even approved, and we know that many of them on strictly bureaucratic matters. In other words, this idea that "it went well, we did everything well", then it shocks, objectively and directly with reality. As the issue of homes, the delays of the material, the delays of the tests, etc., still shocked the reality. , as the question of the prisoners has shocked the reality - and I am no longer talking about the cases in which the decision was reviewed, the deliberations. As we have said, the guarantee has not been approved. And then what happened? It happened that dozens of prisoners were “deposited” in the campsite in Monsanto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u24	I conclude now, Mr President. I just want to say the following: Mr Minister continues to defend the idea that there is no need for sanctions. I give you a suggestion, Mr Minister: a lot of attention when it comes to the state of calamity, because, if we are to definate, we need to be much more rigorous in what everyone can and cannot do.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u25	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u26	In other words, if we are going to determine the mandatory use of masks, it is necessary, first, that they exist and then that those who do not comply with this use have some kind of sanction. In that case, Mr Minister, sympathetic and pedagogical discussions will not be enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u27	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u28	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, Minister of Health, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As the PCP has been saying over time, the state of emergency is not equal to the response measures to the epidemic and the end of the state of emergency does not mean the end of the measures that need to be maintained to combat the epidemic. This distinction now begins to become clear, despite the fact that, in the last month and a half, both things have been confused. They're not the same. The state of emergency is now coming to an end, but measures to prevent and contain epidemic outbreaks must be maintained. They will have to stay there at this time that we are living, certainly for much longer and, as everyone easily understands, no state of emergency or state of calamity is necessary for people to wash their hands, meet the respiratory label and social distance. Mr Minister, I would like to make it very clear that, in the view of the CFP, it is not inevitable, nor obligatory, to move from the state of emergency to the state of disaster. In any circumstances, the measures to be taken must be in accordance with what is necessary, proportionately and strictly appropriate to what is necessary to combat the epidemic and to enforce the rules against the epidemic. The Government has submitted a report on this second fortnight of the state of emergency which is a factual report of the measures taken, of the capacity to mobilise the means necessary to ensure those measures which have been decreed, i.e. a factual report of what has been done. The first report had one point that we thought was very interesting and that could even be repeated in all reports, point 4, where it was aware of the measures which, before the state of emergency, had been decreed. And why is that point 4 important? Because he looks at the measures that will need to be kept ahead, that nothing has to do with the state of emergency or the state of calamity. They are public health measures, of social response, of economic response, of response in many sectors which need to be taken into account and kept forward here, because they are truly essential to respond not only to the public health problem but also to other problems that have accumulated, in particular the problems of violating workers' rights and the arbitrariness that have been imposed on them — the pretext of the state of emergency and, from here on forward, we will see the pretext of what — the problems of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the problems of farmers, precarious workers, workers in informal situations, who are faced with a very large circumstance of vulnerability in their lives, with dramatic impacts, and truly dramatic situations are created in the lives of those who have lost the conditions of subsistence. These are measures that relate to the increased production capacity of the country, with the strengthening of national production, not only of fans and other equipment, which are absolutely essential to cope with the epidemic, but with the strengthening of the national production capacity to meet the needs of the Portuguese country and people. That is why, Minister, we wanted to say that, on our part, we have a clear idea of the measures that are necessary and of the response that is necessary to the problems of the country and, as we have said so far, that was not the declaration of the state of emergency, which is confirmed in each report. The state of emergency was not required because the Portuguese generally and voluntarily complied with the rules that were decided. from here forward, what needs to be focused on is the creation of objective conditions, materials, schools, daycare facilities, businesses, factories, trade services, public services, so that public health rules can continue to be met. And for that...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u29	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u30	I will finish, Mr. President. And for that, I repeat, there is no need for a state of emergency or a state of calamity. [[Congrats from PCP MP Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u31	I give the floor to Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we evaluate the application of the state of emergency, something exceptional in our democracy, we realize that soon comes to the epidermis of some right its dream of a generalized repression, a generalized suppression of rights, a militarization of the state. Well, none of that happened and still good. The first conclusion I wanted to mention, and that we subscribe at all, of what is written in the report submitted by the Government, is that the population in general has complied peacefully and in a voluntary and immediate manner with both the recommendations of the security forces and services, both the public health indications. I stress, in a peaceful and voluntary way. This is essential to give a great greeting to the Portuguese people, who have shown themselves to meet this huge challenge. But the application of the state of emergency in this second fortnight also shows what the Left Block had already said: workers are not enemies in response to the pandemic crisis, they are, before, fundamental allies. That is why, when Mr President of the Republic intended to place the right to strike and the right to resistance as freedoms that would be restricted, as rights that would be restricted in this period of the state of emergency, he did so in an absolutely disproposed way, because reality shows that if someone had a sense of deep responsibility were the workers and the workers of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u34	And I would like to greet them, all those who were in the front line to ensure that nothing was lacking in response to this pandemic crisis, health workers, essential service workers, force workers and security services, which ensured that the country did not close and continued to respond to the pandemic crisis. I believe that this greeting is due at this particular moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u36	But this state of emergency is not legitimate, as some seem to want to understand, they run into the law, to which the state of emergency does not provide coverage. For example, illegal and wild layoffs in labor relations are not foreseen in the state of emergency, they do not have legal coverage in the state of emergency and should therefore be punished in an exemplary manner. In this regard, we can point out one of the missing things, which was a much greater reinforcement of the ACT to ensure that the wild attitudes of some employers did not happen. And if I welcomed the responsibility of many workers and many workers who did not lack the country, we should also point the finger to shareholders who began exporting dividends out of the country, decapitalizing businesses and the economy. We asked: could the state of emergency be used to prevent this decapitalization of the country and of companies? I could and should, but it wasn't. I believe that these are the criticisms that we can point out in this context. But I end up in the same way as I did. The dream of putting the military on the street, of removing freedoms indiscriminately and of encroaching on people's rights indiscriminately, in the state of emergency, did not happen, and did not happen for two reasons: on the one hand, because, fortunately, this right has no weight in the country to determine public choices...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u37	Let's see the next one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u38	...and, on the other hand, because our people show that they have much more credit and responsibility than that right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u39	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As most people know, the PSD, both inside and outside, has supported several government decisions on the state of emergency. That is why, when he diverges, he does not do it because he is opposition, he does not do it because he does not do it for duty or for piccardias, he does it because he is convinced that in some cases the government did not do what it should or was beyond what it should. in this period which we have analyzed—and in fact, public opinion out there has already discussed widely from a factual point of view, but we must comply with the law—, they jump to the point of view, in our view, a omission, inefficiencies and indignation. The omission is based on the fact that the managers of micro and small and medium-sized enterprises have unjustly been without support for the closure of their activities, which makes some of them now live with « the rope in the throat ». The PSD presented a draft for this disregard to be corrected, hoping that next week when it comes to the debate, all parliamentary groups will be able to decide what the government did not want to decide on this matter. On the other hand, as far as lawyers and applicants are concerned, the issue is not the same, it also requires proper weighting, because they have also stood aside from any financial protection and — imagine! — they have not even received the obvious, which are the late fees that the State owes them for the provision of services within the framework of legal aid. There is only one call of attention to the government. Inefficiencies, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers and Mr Secretary of State, it has to do with the bureaucratic lines of support for companies, which have already been focused here, which either do not arrive or arrive late and bad hours, and may arrive so late that when they arrive, companies have not resisted the delay. And here, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, or the process is agile, and it has to be fast, or the damage is irreparable not only for the companies themselves but also for the country. Finally, the outrage has to do with the pardon of sentences to prisoners, which we have all realized that it was an airy ability of the government to solve a structural problem, that of overcrowding of chains, to the blight of a conjuncural problem, which is that of the COVID. If the justification was public health, putting out the oldest and those who had health problems, then, Mrs. Ministers, what we learned after the Monday pardon of the President of the Republic, was that 14 people were released under these conditions. Look at this ridiculous thing! in these conditions, with health problems and elderly, 14 people were released and the government arranged a magical formula to put out 132 times more prisoners, i.e., 1853 people, many of them not having these needs, neither physical nor old, and many of them without home to live, without family to welcome them, many even contaminated, as happened in the Azores, propagating out here what they got there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u41	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u42	Finally, Mr President, saying that this absurd prowess — the adjective is mine — has been achieved and it is even this bizarre thing that we believe that the government should explain to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u43	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : First of all, I would like to stress what we are discussing at this item on the agenda, which is the assessment of the report on the implementation of the state of emergency declared from 3 April to 17 April 2020. Indeed, the object relates to the measures and to the restriction of fundamental rights and the way in which they were exercised. in this sense, of course, the government contextualizes the report with additional information on other relevant aspects of the protection of people and businesses and on incentives to the economy, but, as Mr. João Oliveira stressed well, we distinguish well both things: one question is the evaluation that we make in the way institutions have been able to address the state of emergency and to restrict, in a proportionate way and within the limits set by the Decree of the President of the Republic, the fundamental rights, another question is to make this discussion, and we will have other opportunities to do it, as in the next item on the agenda and in the fifteen debates that have been held. So when Mr Telmo Correia says that it seems ridiculous that we are having this discussion in this context...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u45	I never said that! I never said « ridiculous»!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u46	... or when the NAP says, as it did recently, that we have tomorrow the end of the third period and we are still discussing the second, I say no. at this point in the agenda we are discussing what the law determines us, and it is essential that Parliament discuss, which is the vote on how the implementation of the state of emergency went. We will have the opportunity to hold these other debates, which are scheduled, in particular within the next item on our agenda. Secondly, we are not discussing the legislation adopted at various times either. But since it is alarming again around it, it is also important to note and point out again that the measures adopted in this House, particularly those relating to them, and even now have been referred to by Mr Peixoto, the forgiveness of sentences, are not a file to solve a problem, the problem is that there is overcrowding of prisons and this problem cannot go unnoticed by Parliament when it decides what humanitarian measures it is that it adopts to prevent infection in prisons, among the people who are there and who also have rights, in particular their right to health. Let us not forget that the fact that we are in a state of emergency does not mean that we are not unlawfully committed, does not mean that other people are not arrested and arrested and that these people do not enter prisons, and that when they enter, they may contaminate the others, who are already there, with the virus that they may have captured abroad, if they themselves are contaminated. Consequently, the possibility of having adequate lotion in prison establishments, releasing only those cases that are criminal baggage, which are not dangerous crimes, because, these are excluded, and putting less pressure on the system is a logical, rational, public health and humanitarian measure. As for the second aspect, Mr Peixoto, it is his own intervention that contradicts himself. It says the 14 pardons are ridiculous, but this is the demonstration that, in fact, the measure is geared to the essential, it is aligned to what was needed and to cases that, evaluated the clinical and medical reports, S. Ex. the President of the Republic considered it necessary to grant the pardon and, in this context, to allow the exit. It is therefore a proportionate, appropriate measure and, yes, it should not be deserving of the social alarm that attempts to build without a basis of facts. Mr Ventura said 'we don't know' We know, yes! The Minister of Justice, yesterday, at the parliamentary hearing in which he was present, said twice: she referred to the initial intervention and then repeated to her, when she arrived in the midst of the intervention, how many people actually complied with this measure. Therefore, the data are available, they are being evaluated and we must face this point with the seriousness it deserves us too. This report highlights precisely the differences and, in this respect, Mr Minister, we thank the notes it leaves, in particular with regard to the question of the Easter period, which was relevant. We know that it was a particularly difficult time for people, since they had to make a greater sacrifice, because it was a time when they would normally be with their families, we know that it was a time when believers were deprived of their worship in collective terms and therefore of the periods of the state of emergency this was perhaps the most delicate and complicated. And in this context, in fact, the state of emergency cannot fail to reflect what has been decreed, i.e., Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, 205 people arrested is something to think about. Well, that's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u47	What's going to happen to the detainees? Are you prisoners?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u48	It gives thought to and demonstrates the need to declare the state of emergency, because these cases are precisely those of the non-compliances that have occurred and that would probably have meant non-compliance with the confinement. Now, the fact that it is only 205 demonstrates something that, I would say, virtually all parliamentary groups have emphasized: there was a generalized welcome and a generalized desire by the Portuguese to properly fulfil this period. For that reason, if anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, for this reason, if we should obviously thank all the institutions, in particular the health professionals, but especially the generality of the Portuguese, it is the degree of compliance they have shown at this stage, which also gives us encouragement and confidence that, in the next phase, when the defination takes place, the very same collective and community spirit is maintained. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u51	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the final stage of this debate, with the Government's closing interventions. The first intervention is for Ms. Minister of Health, Marta Temido, who I also take advantage of to greet. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over this period, over this period, the National Health Service has once again shown its capacity, robustness and adaptability in all areas. In response to COVID-19, in particular, it was possible to perform a significant set of diagnostic tests that were not initially expected. The test strategy was based on the clinical need, always and only on the technical recommendations of WHO ( World Health Organization ), ECDC ( European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control ) and of course the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ). We passed from 80 000 tests in March to 144 000 tests carried out during this second renewal of the state of emergency, which shows what we have achieved. On the other hand, in terms of access to data for research, all complete requests submitted to the Directorate-General for Health ( 57 ), all those who had fully completed data ( 21 ) were already answered and the others are under review. With regard to the start of the acquisitions, we did so in an aggregate manner with the Joint Prosecutor's Office of the European Union from 6 February. More, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have particularly improved the situation and the results of the country. On 15 April, at the last meeting of Infarmed ( National Medicines and Health Products Authority), we had 643 cases, 32 deaths and 1200 patients hospitalized; yesterday, we had 295 cases, 20 deaths and 936 patients hospitalized. This was the effort of many, but it was the effort, above all, of the National Health Service, which treated this emergency as what is, that is, a health emergency but not a totalitarian emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u53	You have the floor to conclude the debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate here is not a mere legal obligation, it is a necessary debate to be inserted into the vote that for the Government is essential in a truly exceptional situation. This unique challenge in our lives did not begin with the declaration of the state of emergency. The Government had previously taken a number of measures: from the replacement of borders to the adoption of restrictions on movement, to the adoption of health control measures. It is true that the Portuguese and the Government had already adopted a set of necessary measures before the state of emergency, but the national consensus that enabled all the sovereign bodies to meet, faced with this challenge that we have never had in democracy. This state of emergency, which none of us wanted to be declared and of which we want to leave as quickly as possible, proved appropriate, taking the necessary and proportionate measures to respond to the dimension of the challenge, but does not end here. Therefore, maintaining this dimension of cohesion, which is, in fact, reflected in the international assessment of how Portugal faced the state of emergency, will be even more necessary in the next phase, because this challenge does not end here. The state of emergency did not suspend democracy and commemorated on 25 April; the state of emergency did not suspend the rights of workers and the celebrations of 1. the May state of emergency will be properly carried out; the state of emergency gave priority to the public health response and the National Health Service met the requirements; the state of emergency proved appropriate in the minimal compression of freedoms for the result that we together achieve. There is an economic dimension of this crisis that will not be hidden and that will still be discussed in the current debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u55	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u56	For this economic issue too, the Government has, in due course, given the appropriate response on these various fronts: on public health, on the collective effort to maintain the limitations necessary to contain the pandemic and the scale of the economic and social response.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u57	Mr. Minister, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u58	This consensus, involving the Assembly of the Republic, is essential to achieve the results that we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u59	We will enter the second point of our agenda, which is generally discussed in the Bill No 26 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves an exceptional and transitional regime for the conclusion of debt regularisation agreements within the water and sewage sector. I call on the Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês dos Santos Costa, to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u60	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I ask you today to approve the bill that allows, exceptionally and transitionally, the conclusion of debt regularization agreements for municipalities and municipal authorities in the water and sanitation sector. The debt regularisation agreements so far have reached a value of EUR 70 million. Therefore, the loan contracted with the European Investment Bank ( EIB ) still has a EUR 130 million strike which the current crisis context, caused by the coronavirus, advises that they are now mobilised, with advantages to the Water Group of Portugal and also to the municipalities. The situation of the disease pandemic COVID-19, in the second quarter of 2020, will require the municipalities to make a very high financial effort. Therefore, debts to companies of the Water Group of Portugal can rise. This initiative enables the conclusion of new debt regularisation agreements on invoices between April and June 2020, provided that municipalities liquidate at least 50 % of their value. Therefore, only the remaining value of 50 % can be the subject of the conclusion of these agreements. These debts do not exceed interest due for the period from the date of expiry of the respective invoice to 30 September 2020 and may be paid over a period of 25 years. The law before you also has a mechanism that allows the limits of municipal debt to be exceeded under these agreements. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in addition to this bill, would like to recall the measures we have taken in two key areas, to deal with the emergency period we are still living. In order to ensure continuity and non-interruption of the provision of public water supply services for human consumption, we guarantee the functioning of all systems, of access to reservoirs, and of maintenance and repair operations. We also guarantee control of the quality of water for human consumption, in accordance with the guidelines of the competent authority. The same happened with waste water collection, drainage and treatment systems. We have also done so by ensuring customer support services under telework in order to protect them, and, by applying the principle of security, we promote the reversing of workers in companies, avoiding direct contacts between teams. In the waste sector, in order to protect workers in the sector, to avoid contamination and to ensure the proper disposal of waste, we preferred disposal by incineration, especially in the metropolitan areas. We also suspend the obligation to pre-treatment of urban waste intended to land and also allow the extension of operating hours and the increase in storage capacity of urban and hospital waste management operators. We must also add the enormous joint effort between the Portuguese Environment Agency, the ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ), the management entities and the municipalities in the monotorization of essential services during this state of emergency and also in the information to the public, which these entities also provided on the proper deposition of waste. I remember: masks and gloves on the floor, no! That's what we did. We now call on you to pass this bill so that we can continue to provide an adequate response to this moment of crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u61	I have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a government law, in general terms, deserves the agreement of the NAP. However, we have to make some repairs and make some calls. The first repair relates to the fact that the Government's proposal covers only the municipalities that form part of a multi-municipal system in the area of the Waters of Portugal Group, leaving out the remaining municipalities, i.e., we are talking about 122 municipalities that remain outside. We therefore leave the appeal to the Government to seek to ensure that similar solutions to which we are now going to approve apply, for reasons of justice, to these same municipalities which are not covered by this law and for which this budgetary strike would also be very important. The second repair relates to the time limits for regularisation. In the view of the NAP, although this flexibility is positive in December 2020, in view of the data we currently have, the financial situation of the municipalities will not be better than the current one. We therefore call on the Government to make efforts to ensure that the amount of EUR 130 million, associated with the debt deferral package, is increased and has an extension of the regularisation deadline by December. The last repair relates to the fact that the Government's bill does not reflect some aspects of social and environmental justice that, for the NAP, are always essential, even more so at the exceptional time we live. We are experiencing a socio-economic and environmental crisis in which social support measures are urgently needed for families with high income breaks, something that, at the municipal level, can be done, for example, by means of the social water tariff. Also in terms of water supply systems, one of the major problems is water waste, because, according to the Portuguese Consumer Defense Association, the Portuguese municipalities waste 180 million cubic metres of water per year, a quantity that would fill 193 Olympic pools. Acknowledging the urgency of these solutions, the NAP today brings the vote on the creation of positive reinforcements for municipalities that already welcome or are available to host a set of solutions that respond to these social and environmental concerns, including through the implementation of the social water tariff and efficient water use measures, such as minimization of losses and the creation of systems for collecting and reusing rainwater. With the proposal that we bring forward, the municipalities willing to move forward to such solutions, or that they practice them, will be supported not by 50 %, as in the Government's proposal and the others, but by 70 % of the value of their debts for the months of April, May and June. In conclusion, I would just like to say that we have to have the courage to do better. We don't want to continue the path that brought us here. We must realize, once and for all, that dealing with the health of the planet and people's health are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u63	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Authorities have been on the front line in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The autarchs, due to their natural proximity to their populations, know well where they must act, how and when and, in this pandemic, they have not spared any effort for the well-being of their populations. Therefore, all measures intended to support the authorities and their authorities will always have our support. In the specific case, we support the exceptional regime that is intended to be set up for the authorities. They will thus have special conditions to regulate the debts inherent in the provision of water supply services for the period from 1 April to 30 June, as proposed, until the added difficulties that may arise for the early payment are related to the support that the authorities themselves have given to their populations, in an attempt to reduce the negative impacts that the state of calamity has caused on families and businesses. It seems to us, however, that the proposed scheme may in time contradict what is provided for in the law of local finances and that it is to prevent the proposed amendment of the PSD from being presented, i.e. to correct what we believe should be corrected. We agree with the fact that exceptional situations, such as the one we live in, impose exceptional measures. The authorities need such measures and the government must implement them. We will therefore support this measure under the conditions laid down. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u65	Mrs. Unregistered Member, Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards the regularization of indebtedness in the water and sewage sector, I would like to stress that this Government initiative needs to increase the limit to EUR 150 million. I would also like to mention something which, in my view, is more or less obvious: water is a fundamental right. Water is not a commodity. It is necessary for water to remain in the public domain and not in the hands of private entities to be the object of profit.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u67	I now give the floor to Mr Ricardo Pinheiro of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Dear Members: I begin by complimenting them and making an absolutely fair reference to the reinvention capacity that the local power has had in recent times in relation to the fight against the pandemic. It was extraordinarily important to see how each autarch, each autarchy managed, in an absolutely exemplary way, to leave its model of work and performance and to articulate, in full partnership, with the health sector and with the sector of support for the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity). It is never too much to remember that local power has, in fact, this capacity and this spirit of proximity, achieving, at a very short time, creating and doing absolutely incredible things, in this case in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19. The way in which the Government and the Ministry of the Environment had the ability to realize that there was a line of support to the European Investment Bank and that this line, contrary to what has already been said, had been used only in EUR 70 million by 200 municipalities, which had incurred debts to the Waters of Portugal, well represents the open way for each of the authorities to choose the way to cancel these same debts to the Waters of Portugal group. The way in which these EUR 130 million can bring more cash to the authorities, but also to economic society, especially at the national level, is extremely important. It is important to realize that these authorities want to conclude this agreement, beginning with 50 % of the debts to the Waters of Portugal, both in the business sector of the State and in the multi-municipal and inter-municipal enterprises, and it is extremely insightful to realize that at a time like this, it will be possible to inject money completely liquidly with each of the municipalities, from each region and at the national level. I would also like to leave a relevant note to a country that was whipped by COVID-19. The Italian Prime Minister announced a few days ago that he had a line of EUR 200 million for 5000 municipalities throughout Italy. As set out in the proposal for a law, for some 200 municipalities which had debts to the Waters of Portugal, EUR 130 million is brought immediately to Portugal. We welcome the fact that there is this ability of articulation and speed in relation to the response needed to deal with payments or to contribute with agility to ensure that local power responds to its populations in the most assertive and rational way possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u69	I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have already identified and mentioned, combating the pandemic has very significant economic and social impacts. Obviously, local authorities are also affected by this reality. On the one hand, the increase in unforeseen expenditure in combating outbreaks and in supporting the population and in reducing revenue. With regard to water supply and sanitation, it is expected that there will be a reduction in revenue due to non-compliance with families, which have seen their income reduce, or because of the approval by the municipalities of exemptions or the reduction of the values charged by the supply of water. Therefore, it is true that municipalities do not have financial conditions at the moment to ensure payments due to high-level systems, whether they are multi-municipal or public partnership in water supply and wastewater sanitation. This obviously requires exceptional measures to overcome this difficulty. The Government brings a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic which is conditional on the contract concluded between the Waters of Portugal and the EIB, developed under Decree-Law No 5 / 2019, which lays down the procedures necessary for the regularization of the debts of local authorities in the water sector and waste water sanitation, which raises many doubts. It is a diploma made in accordance with the interests of the Waters of Portugal, which does not guarantee contractual freedom, by imposing conditions in the form of conclusion of payment agreements with the authorities, disrespecting the autonomy of the local power. In the State Budget for 2020, we proposed that municipalities should be able to conclude debt regularization agreements without being subject to the conditions imposed by the government. We believe that the measures to be taken to improve the management of the water and sanitation sector go through the defence of their public management, respect for local authorities' autonomy, guarantee the economic accessibility of users — which presupposes the existence of financial mechanisms to support the sector — by eliminating the remuneration of their own capital, by reducing management fees and improving efficiency as essential conditions for reducing tariffs and the corresponding reduction of the charges of municipal authorities. It is in this sense that we present amendments, in particular, that during 2020 the distribution of dividends for the financial year 2019 is prohibited for companies in the business sector, managers of multi-municipal water and sanitation systems, as well as the suspension in those companies of the mandatory payment rule of own capital, reducing to the value of the consumer price index, the difference applied in the tariff reduction already in 2020, and the Government should issue guidelines in the same sense for public partnership. We also propose that the 2020 level of recovery of expenditure does not prevent access to Community funding for investment in the sector. It is essential, in our view, that the conditions be created so that municipalities can invest in water and sanitation infrastructures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u71	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to begin by congratulating the honourable Members. State Secretaries present here and say that we perceive the concern of the Government and therefore submit the proposed law under discussion. It is a concern, which we would say positive, with that which should be the financial strike for the authorities themselves at the moment and in the context in which we live, but it is also a concern with the managers of the multi-municipal water supply and wastewater sanitation systems. So we realize this concern. The importance of local power in responding to COVID-19 has already been discussed in this debate. All this is important, but it is also important that there is concern about the real economy, about companies. The Ministry of the Environment, which is concerned about the authorities, should also be concerned about companies. The Minister for the Environment himself—I know that he is not the Secretary of State, but the Minister for the Protection of the Environment—should give instructions to companies themselves that protect the payment of debts to suppliers. I bring you the example of the Lisbon Metropolitan, a company with 100 % of public capital, which responds to its suppliers with an e-mail starting like this : « For issues related to cash difficulties, it is not possible for the Lisbon Metropolitan to meet the payment deadlines established with the suppliers ». Therefore, the State, which is so concerned, should set an example and proceed to the payment of invoices it has for settlement. This would be the best example the State could give to the economy by injecting money into these same companies. As an example, only State-owned suppliers' debts with 90-day payment-term invoices now account for around 550 million euros. These EUR 550 million would be very useful for companies to have another strike. And this is not a favour, it is an obligation and an example that the State itself must give.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u73	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative, which the Left Block recognizes is necessary and important for the liquidity that municipalities today must have in response to the COVID-19 crisis, is justified by the forecast of generalization or a very significant increase in the failure to pay water bills by final consumers. That forecast is relevant. We are going through one of the worst economic crises of the last century and preparing it is an obligation. The proposal that the Left Block makes has to do with a failure that, for two years now, the Government has been slow to recognize, that it is the application of the 2017 decree that would apply to the water sector the same rule of the social tariff that is already applied in the energy sector. This decree-law, which we passed here, never had practical consequences because over time the municipalities had no interest in applying it, since the costs of its application, the costs of the social tariff run through the way of the municipalities. The proposal that the Left Block makes is that the part of the debt that could be included in the payment agreements that are now on the table is not 50 % but 70 % for the municipalities that would accept to apply the social tariff as provided for in the 2017 Decree-Law. The financial strike that would be created by this way would enable municipalities to face this problem and it is critical that this social tariff becomes existing and applied by municipalities. The same logic that leads to this bill, which is the expectation that consumers will not be able to comply with the payments of their invoices, must lead to the generalization of the social tariff, so that the most deprived families can cope with these commitments, without necessarily going through a major non-compliance. Today, what we see is that this social tariff is not actually applied. According to DECO, one third of the municipalities do not have any kind of social tariff. Most municipalities have a social tariff covering a very small part of their municipalities, because it is not applied according to the transmission of data by social security and tax administration, as is the case with the social energy tariff. There are a residual number of beneficiaries in the municipalities that apply—and they are not all! — a social tariff and, even in these councils, the discount is very small and does not correspond to the standards established by the 2017 Decree of Law. Therefore, what should be done, even in line with the recommendations of the Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services, would be to stimulate, by this way, and at this time when the problem is identified and we have a palliative which is the social rate of water to apply, the municipalities finally put into practice the social tariff and its allocation automatically to all the deprived population, using, for this, the devices that are already within their reach, so that the right to water is more effective in our country, without prejudice to other measures that, in good time, the Block must present on the guarantee of this access, on upcoming occasions. That is the proposal for an amendment which the Bloc proposes and hopes that the Government will be able to accept and that the Socialist Party will be able to adopt. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u75	To close the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would just like to leave a few brief notes on the questions that have been raised. In fact, the municipalities covered are those under the debt regularisation agreement with the EIB. We are talking about the municipalities of multi-municipal systems—are more than 200 municipalities covered by this initiative. As for 50 %, I must say that this is not a random number. It is, in fact, the number of being the minimum common denominator to ensure compliance with current costs associated with high entities and therefore it is the value that we can achieve in order to meet all essential services of high and low levels in the case of water and sanitation. With regard to the social tariff, it is in the sphere of competence of municipalities to want to adopt it and, therefore, it should be the municipalities to integrate this tool, if they so wish. I leave a final note only to reinforce the extraordinary interaction that took place between all management entities. We are talking about systems of more than 300 "low" companies and also of management entities "high" that during this state of emergency have made very great efforts to articulate themselves and ensure essential services to all citizens and that they have been going through this period in various areas, including in terms of solidarity, for example with the distribution of PPE(individual protection equipment), among others. I must therefore stress the spirit of collaboration and dedication of the entities and all the institutions in the area of the environment that have always worked, they have never ceased to function, always serving the public service and the citizen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u77	We will move on to the third item on the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the Bill No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes and guarantees the responsiveness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, Jorge Botelho, whom I also use to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to welcome and express, of course, given the subject to be dealt with here, the Government's willingness to continue to support the authorities, to give them more working conditions and to work hard to improve their liquidity in order to overcome these difficult times that we are going through. I would also like to welcome — indeed, I could not stop doing — all the authorities of the country who, in a very proactive way, very close, very dynamic and with a great spirit of work of proximity, are doing what they can, and often, what they cannot, in order to achieve all social situations. The Government, both in the Council of Ministers and earlier in the Assembly of the Republic, has accompanied a number of proposals and needs which the municipalities have brought to us, in order to ensure its liquidity, the improvement of working conditions, a set of conditions that are necessary to put means at the disposal of the municipalities. Today, we are working on this proposal which is under discussion at the Council of Ministers and comes to the House in the form of a proposal for a law — in a very important area, both at the level of the Municipal Social Fund, with the expenditure to be selected within the framework of the COVID-19, for eligibility of the Municipal Social Fund, as well as at the level of a very important issue, which is the realization of the capital of the FAM ( Municipal Support Fund ) with a moratorium that is proposed and also, of course, at the level of the amortization of the loans of the 13 municipalities which have contracted them and whose financial significance amounts to about 26 million euros, so as to give more liquidity to the municipalities. Obviously, we are constantly concerned about finding solutions and is this dynamic, the close articulation that has to be made with the municipalities in permanence, which makes there a work relationship that flows, a constant relationship between the local power, the proximity of the populations, and the central administration, to give conditions, to give means, to give law, to give standards, so that everything is done within the framework of speed, normality and legality. Obviously, I cannot help but say that, at local level, work is done very closely with all civil protection agents and with a multiplicity of entities. I think they're all doing a very busy job giving conditions to the populations. As for the rest, also the Assembly of the Republic — it must be recognised — has done everything to ensure that local power can be conditioned. It is essential to say this, as it is essential to say that the local power, this government and this Ministry are very committed to providing conditions for all to be able to work as actively and effectively as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u79	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a general rule, the NAP is in favour of proposals for strengthening the means of local power. It was also with this objective that we proposed, during this month, this headquarters, the creation of COVID-19 credit lines, without interest to the municipalities. We therefore agree with the suspension of contributions to the Municipal Support Fund and the fact that expenditure on combating the new coronavirus is eligible for it. However, we must remember that, in order for this measure to represent an effective strengthening of the capacity of action of municipalities, it is necessary for the Government in the forthcoming amending budget to provide for a strengthening of funds from the Municipal Social Fund. In addition, already last January, the NAP warned that the amount entered in the 2020 State Budget for the Fund is equal to the amount entered in the 2009 State Budget, which means that it is not enough to cover the costs with social policies of the municipalities, especially to meet the current challenge that we all face and to which municipalities also have to deal with, which is the COVID-19. We stress the request of ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), which basically says that the use of this moratorium should not be interpreted as a cause of an increase in debt, in particular in interest, penalties or liability for non-compliance, and that it would be good for the Government to clarify this issue today. It is important to ensure that municipalities that wish to do so can receive the results distribution money from the Municipal Support Fund and, therefore, we bring this proposal. We also need a strong local democracy and, to that end, it is necessary to guarantee the powers of supervision of the municipal assemblies and the assemblies of parish. We therefore appeal that Article 7 should not be approved. the B of Law No 6 / 2020, proposed by the Government, which in our view is disrespectful by the municipal deliberative bodies, and which, as pointed out in particular to ANMP and ANAFRE ( National Fregues Association ), was even redundant. In contrast, the NAP proposal aims to ensure the transparency of the action of municipal chambers in the exceptional context of combating COVID-19. It would be incomprehensible if the Government had to take account of the exceptional measures it is taking with Parliament, the municipal chambers should not have to do so. We would also like to stress that the Government should seek to present a diploma seeking to strengthen the financial resources of the parish to address the social and economic impacts of COVID-19. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are bringing forward a proposal to postpone the completion of the decentralization process for two years, because at the moment it must be clear to everyone that there is no conditions for it to be fulfilled within the time limits which are set. It is unthinkable that, in January 2021, municipalities have the ability to ultimately assume decentralized competences and, in addition, as we know, this could bring an additional focus of tension between the municipalities and the central power, which is not, at all, desirable at the moment. Let us be clear: we all, who are here, want the viability and completion of the process of decentralization, but at the moment we must appeal to the common sense of reflecting and delaying this date, so that municipalities can make this decentralization properly and in dialogue and coordination with the government. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u81	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important legislative measure. My only question is that it only refers to municipalities and does not go further specifically with measures for the bridging boards, especially because, in an environment of pandemic and fighting the COVID-19, it is exactly the bridging joints that give a more immediate and sometimes more effective response to the most vulnerable populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u83	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese municipalities took on a first challenge to meet the needs that the pandemic brought. From their own budgets were called to respond to the needs of their municipalities and the proximity and knowledge of the territory were essential in preventing the spread of COVID-19. However, we cannot accept that every step that is taken in the containment of the pandemic and in the creation of measures that can minimize its impact is another step in the transfer of responsibilities, which are not from the municipalities but from the government. Now is the time to look at concrete social measures, especially in the difficulties they will have to face, with the number of unemployed people increasing every day and contributing to the increase of social problems. The Greens reaffirm that the competences and autonomy of local power must be respected, that employment, housing, education and the need to strengthen the National Health Service networks are the responsibility of the central government and that we will not accept that they push over the municipalities spending on the responsibility of the central power. That is what we read in the opinion of the Portuguese National Association of Municipalities: that this bill, which is announced to promote and guarantee the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, appears inadequate, vague and poorly rigorous. thus, we maintain reservations about this proposal, because in situations such as the one we are facing today, in which there are no magic solutions, it is necessary to hear who is on the ground and who feels the difficulties. In order for municipalities to be able to provide additional follow-up answers to hundreds of thousands of citizens in isolation and with economic difficulties, they will depend, above all, on the support and legal conditions they have to intervene. The Municipal Social Fund is to finance expenditure relating to the tasks and competences transferred from the central administration to the municipalities, associated with social functions such as education, health and social action. The municipalities are asked to strengthen their support for the SNS and to complement some of their needs. The municipalities will be asked to meet the needs of reopening schools — whether they are daycare or secondary — in particular the strengthening of cleaning teams, or the transport of schools. We stress that we will not be following up, even now or in the future, anyone who wants to push to the authorities that are not theirs. Nor does it seem appropriate for us that if the authorities are to take on what is to be assumed by the government in this difficult situation. I cannot but emphasise the support that the local democratic power, which conquered April, has given at this stage to the people — the municipalities, together with the parish — who, in addition to the proximity, strives not to leave anyone behind. This will be the role that will continue to be important in the future and therefore it is necessary that the measures taken do not undermine this very future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u85	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the midst of so many uncertainties, one thing we can be sure of, that local power does not lack the population. The action of Portuguese authors has been absolutely remarkable in terms of support, commitment and proximity, mobilizing means, resources and organization. Its contribution in response to the epidemic situation and in mitigating its social and economic impacts is unquestionable and decisive. in this context, we are required to be able to create the procedural, material and financial conditions so that this action can be even more fruitful. It is also important to realize that the autarchs are playing a role in a script that was not written and that, too, they should not be victims of a closer view of legal precepts. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's times are not compatible with in-depth legislative processes, which obliges us to further improve diplomas already approved, as is clearly the case with this bill, without it coming to the world from there. The important thing is that we can always move forward in the right direction. To move forward in the right direction is also, as the PSD proposes, to eliminate inadequate requirements at the moment, as is the case with the decision to assume responsibility for solidarity by local authorities in situations where debt regulation agreements are concluded by municipal or inter-municipal undertakings. To advance in the right direction is, as the PSD proposes, to allow municipalities to deduct costs with the acquisition of equipment, goods and services in the fight against the effects of the pandemic to the value of benefits to the Municipal Support Fund. To advance in the right direction is, as the PSD proposes, to grant the same 12-month moratorium, either for municipalities to realize the capital of the Municipal Support Fund, or for municipalities with financial assistance loans to amortize the winning capital. To move in the right direction is, finally, and as the PSD proposes, to strengthen the ability to respond to fregueses in the provision of services and support to people in a vulnerable situation. It should be pointed out, it should never be forgotten that the juntas de freguesia are not minor authorities. They are, very often, the first door to which the most deprived people beat to ask for help in the purchase of medicines, food goods and clothing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u87	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this pandemic period, the authorities have in many cases been the great and main representatives of the state, especially for those who are either not sick or are asymptomatic and also for those who go through the greatest difficulties. In many cases, when it began to realize that what the government announced in theory was not working in practice, it was the authorities, it was the municipal chambers, it was the councils of parish, as were the social institutions, which were there. I could give, not tens, but hundreds of examples. I would like to remind, for example, the President of the City Council of Gaia — who I suspect is even suspicious of not being a socialist — who said, after seeing days and days waiting for tests, that the City Council would be advancing with these tests, because simply the ARS (Regional Health Administration) of the North would not respond. So as time passes, it is becoming increasingly evident that, between the announcements that the government makes and the reality that the Portuguese are living, a world of difference is going on. I would like to make it clear that it will not be by the CDS which will be hampered solutions that facilitate both the authorities and the government to respond to the needs of the population. But it's been a month and a half, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, therefore, that the government should, rather than walk every week asking for a blank check after a blank check, start bringing this House information and transparency. The authorities will need much more money than is expected in their budgets, such as the State, so I believe it is the function of this Parliament to know how much, or at least to have an approximate estimate. It's not reasonable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue here, week after week, to approve greater indebtedness, to approve accounts that will remain for later, without ever asking, after all, how much they will be. That information is not for us to know; it is for the Portuguese people, who will pay them, to know what we are talking about. I think that the legislation brought here is not a problem in itself, but we should start having data, and clearer data. I believe that, rather than spending several afternoons discussing a rain of proposals, in which the debate, frankly, is all less productive, this would allow us to make it clear to the Portuguese what the situation is. I believe that this is also a function of Parliament and that this would be preferable, rather than adopting legislation behind legislation that authorizes the government, authorizes the authorities, authorizes the joints, but we never know exactly what to do, or in what sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u89	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To ensure the economic and financial balance of local authorities should be a concern present at the moment, in which it is expected that there will be a significant reduction in revenue, as we have already mentioned, at the same time as an increase in unforeseen expenditure in the context of the fight against COVID-19. In view of this reality, the intervention of the CFP has been crucial for the adoption of a set of proposals allowing authorities to have more financial availability in this period. The Government also brings a proposal for legislation with specific measures aimed at the authorities, on which we want to mention the following: firstly, to consider the expenditure associated with combating outbreaks eligible for funding through the Municipal Social Fund is disproportioned. The National Association of Portuguese Municipalities itself, in its opinion, says that this proposal is inadequate, in addition to vague and of little strictness. Second, on the Municipal Support Fund, what should be considered was the end of the participation of municipalities in the FAM's social capital, as proposed by the CFP, in the context of the discussion of the State budget for 2020. It must be the State to ensure the existence of a financial recovery mechanism for municipalities financed by the State budget. In any case, we will follow the 12-month moratorium proposals for capital benefits by the municipalities. Thirdly, as regards the depreciation of financial assistance loans, we do not follow the proposal for the amount of the moratorium to be distributed by the remaining capital benefits. We understand that the most appropriate solution goes through the extension of the loan for the moratorium period, as the CFP has proposed to amend the initiative we are considering. Fourthly, on the dissolution of municipal companies, it is obvious that the entire year of 2020, regardless of its area of intervention, is conditioned by the outbreak of COVID-19 and this has, of course, impact on its activity. therefore, in our view, there is no need to refer to the evidence of the effects of the emergency situation resulting from the COVID-19 in this fiscal year. It is sufficient to consider, as we propose, that in 2020 the exercise does not relate to the verification of the conditions leading to the dissolution of municipal undertakings as provided for in the law. Fifthly, the current situation requires exceptional measures to be taken, it is true. However, this should not be an excuse for the concentration of powers, nor for minimizing the role of executive and deliberative bodies. The CFP therefore proposes that information duties be maintained to the deliberative body and not suspended, as proposed by the Government. The CFP also proposes that the deadlines for the provision of accounts in ERSAR that have expired in this period be extended and also an amendment to the Public Contracts Code, with the aim of supporting the local economy and contributing to its recovery in the coming years, limiting the hiring of a given entity to one year, thus allowing new contracts with that entity to exist in the following years. thus, it also contributes to solving problems that are practical in contracting goods and services, in means where the local economic fabric is more fragile, with difficulties increased in meeting the needs of public authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u92	Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: To the energetic action of the Government and Parliament at this stage of pandemic, with the adoption of legislative and regulatory measures appropriate to the fight against the spread of the virus causing the COVID-19 and to the reduction of its impact on society, the dynamic action of the municipalities and the fregueries which, at their scale, have contributed strongly to meet the immediate needs of their communities, faced with situations of shortage and difficulty, for which they were obviously not prepared. The diversity of the measures that the authorities have taken throughout the national territory is not only evidence of the dynamics of local power, as evidenced by the heterogeneity of our communities, for which the answers are not, nor have to be, exactly the same. The democratic local power has thus, in a generic way, responded quickly and effectively to its obligation, even exceeding what would be its strict competence. To the municipal chambers and to the freguesia boards, our recognition. However, at the moment, the authorities are either breaking revenue, either by increasing expenditure and investment, faced with unexpected financial or treasury difficulties, to which the State has been sensitive. Evidence of this is the successive measures taken in the Assembly of the Republic and by the Government to expedite the decision-making processes of local authority, suspend time limits and comply with municipal or parish obligations or also simplify procedures. Such measures result, among other things, from the articulation and auscultation that the Government has maintained with local authorities, adapting its action to what, in the field, is being lived and experienced by their communities. It is in this framework of partnership and collaboration that this bill is inserted which we are currently discussing and which, among other aspects, relieves the treasury and finance of local authorities, allowing them to direct them to respond immediately to people's needs. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group obviously accompanies the Government's proposals contained in this bill that we are discussing and adding to it, on a parliamentary initiative, the possibility that, in exceptional situations duly substantiated and directly related to unfavourable expenditure associated with the fight against COVID-19, both municipal chambers and fregetes may borrow, without prejudice to the subsequent submission of ratification by their assemblies. We are also — the Socialist Party — available to accept some of the suggestions that, in the opposition, have entered, as they contribute to the improvement of the initial proposal and do not contain the necessary balance of the legal framework. Finally, we take advantage of the efforts, dedicated commitment and support given by the mayors of the town halls and the parish councils to welcome the government and, at the same time, to their populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u94	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Proposal for Law No 27 / XIV / 1. the aim is to increase the capacity of authorities to respond to the health crisis, to decentralise decisions, to simplify processes. Therefore, it is not surprising that the Liberal Initiative will support this bill, although it should be said that there is time for these various legislations, which simplify the processes and increase the funding limits of the authorities, in fact have a more comprehensive explanation, either in the framework of the Reform Budget or in another. Therefore, the amendments either to Law No 4 - B / 2020 or to Law No 6 / 2020 will deserve our support, especially because they actually approach people's decision-making power. But let us give a warning: that this situation and the COVID-19 are once again no pretext for delaying the process of decentralization sine die. If there has to be a delay of deadlines to implement what is provided for in Law No 50 / 2018, we use that period to transform that law into an effective decentralization by transferring not only implementing powers but also decision-making powers. If we transfer the implementing powers and also transfer the decision powers, then we will be faced with liberal decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u96	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Very synthetic and direct, I will say that the analysis that the Left Block makes on this bill is positive. Moreover, it reinforces what we had already said when we discussed Law No 6 / 2020, which came out of the Assembly of the Republic for weeks. Changing payment deadlines for the FAM was obvious to us. It was the PS and PSD that at the time did not want to follow the proposal of the Left Block. It will be approved today, with the delay of the 12-month payment period and the extension of the maturity of the credit debt with the GEF. On the other hand, they relate to reimbursements from the Municipal Social Fund. in this case, the dilatar of deadlines also makes sense. Why? For a very simple logic: the cash problems that currently exist are not only specific to companies or families, they are also specific to the authorities themselves. And since these are the gateway to many of the answers that they have to give in this case of the pandemic, either in social matters—because they know very closely many of the foci of social deficiency that grow in the days that run— either in matters of aid to the state as regards the implementation of spaces for testing, of strengthening spaces for hospitalization, etc. It makes sense that they have this support from the treasury point of view. What is the only thing we can see in the Government's proposal and also in some amendments? It is that, behind the idea of the state of exceptionality, the deadlines for tabling accounts are extended, in particular the reports of expenditure. Realizing that there is difficulty in making them as thorough as possible at other times, we believe that at least information simplified by executives should be given to deliberative bodies, not to shoot forward. I believe that is the minimum requirement that democracy makes in this context. But, as I said, the main point is to give the authorities the ability to also be agents of response to the pandemic period and agents of response to the social crisis that is growing in the country and, therefore, from our point of view, this bill and the vast majority of the amendments that have been tabled deserve our positive vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u98	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u99	Mr President : We have 13 % of the municipalities that already have more than 100 cases of COVID-19 in Portugal. Mr Fernando Paulo said that the Government and the Socialist Party have been sensitive to the matter relating to the expenditure of the authorities. Let's see. We just have to go through a piece of news about what happened last week: the author of the port says that the Minister of Health called her to apologize; the author of Ílhavo says that there are no tests; the author of Aveiro says that the equipment is not coming... I don't know where the Socialist Party is being sensitive, because, in fact, we just go through a role of news and we see all the city halls — except some of the Socialist Party! — to complain about the lack of equipment. But, in fact, it is necessary to say the following: what this law brings us here today is a request for a blank cheque for expenditure, which can even make sense, but, just as happened with the money they wanted to transmit from one programme to another, again, they do not tell us why it will serve the money! [[PSD laughter.]] And, in fact, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles said, we hardly know what we are doing here, because we are adopting rules for you to spend money, without knowing what you are spending it on. The fact is that we have two very specific situations that show how the PS has been'sensitive' to them. On the question of VAT (tax on value added) on medical equipment, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs—and I am glad he has arrived—he said to me: 'It is not possible, because the European Commission, the European Union...', etc. Here comes the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and says: «We will follow the measures of Dr. Rui Rio, in this matter. If it is the Arrival, or the Left Block, or the Communist Party is saying, the answer is: "It doesn't give, it's illegal, it doesn't serve, it's unconstitutional"; if it's the Democratic Social Party saying so—because now it's good," the answer is: "Let's see if the thing even goes on. Do not keep on seeking. ” But we still have more...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u100	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u101	I will finish, Mr. President. But, as I was saying, we have more: we have the government to say that the authorities will not miss anything and we have all the authorities to complain about, as they did yesterday, with the homes and with the tests. Therefore, at least this House would like to know what the money will be spent on, because if we look at this bill, there is something that we are sure of — and I will finish, Mr President —...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u102	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u103	...that we don't know what the money will be for, and Parliament can't work like this. Or they say what it is or, then, they don't bring laws to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u104	To close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State for decentralization and Local Administration, Jorge Botelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues of the Government : I would like to leave two or three notes to end my participation in the debate. The Government is concerned, as it has always been, with the conditions of sustainability of the authorities, that we do not want them to go through what they have been through a few years ago. This is a fundamental point of honour, both on the part of the Government and on the part of the authorities. With regard to many funds which were allocated to a number of headings—and therefore we are doing more liquidity conditions, exceeding some procedures at this temporary stage—and which, depending on time and limitations, will not be spent, the authors will surely refer them to other matters, which have to do with the conditions of the population, with the tests, with the CAT(temporary reception centres), with all these issues related to people, with their living conditions, with their social condition. It's important that you say this. The second note I would like to leave is that, despite the simplification of the budgetary changes allowed to the executives, who went through this House in an earlier review, the activity of the municipal assemblies is not suspended. They were able to meet in a different way, but nothing implies that in the locals, in the municipalities, they do not meet in the various ways: or presenceal, with security conditions, or digital. What we do not want is to throw any obscurantism on the process. In the name of speed, but, of course, in the scrutiny that is done by the municipalities, all expenses can be scrutinized. The third note I would like to give is on an issue which I also consider essential: we bring, and we will bring, all the proposals that help the municipalities and surely the honourable Members. Members will be available to approve them, because helping municipalities is helping the populations is helping the proximity. We know that the enormous scrutiny that is made by the 308 municipalities of the country, 278 on the continent, is guaranteed that things can run well at this very complicated stage for the populations. All the proposals we have brought forward, all the proposals we have received and all the proposals that we are available to make viable are intended to improve the living conditions of the populations. That is our purpose and, I think, is your purpose. The proposals which are under consideration today in this House go so far, but obviously — and with this end — are proposals that, at the level of the Municipal Social Fund, open a door to the eligibility of expenditure on goods, services and equipment identified in a budget amendment, with a heading called 'COVID-19'. I think this is fundamental so that we can have an accounting principle of how much we will spend after this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u106	We will move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 29 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs tax measures and extends the threshold for the granting of guarantees under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. To open the debate, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we bring today to the Assembly of the Republic has two themes. The first is to authorize the increase in the threshold of guarantees, either the guarantees provided in respect of credit insurance, or the guarantees granted by the State to the Counterguarantee Fund or granted by other public legal persons. This is a measure within the framework of measures to support companies and their access to finance. The second is the VAT area and we have two proposals. One of them is to support national companies and to place them on an equal footing with companies from other parts of the world. In particular, what the European Commission decided at the beginning of the month was that it was possible for imports into national health services, institutions and charitable organisations that such imports of personal protective equipment and equipment for the provision of the National Health Service could be exempt from VAT. The proposal that we bring here today is to extend also to internal and intra-Community operations this exemption of VAT, either for the acquisitions that the authorities make after they give free to the municipalities, or for the acquisitions that the IPSS makes and then give to the municipalities, or for the acquisitions that are made for the National Health Service so that they can respond to the pandemic, or for the acquisitions made by the private sector hospitals that have contracted with the National Health Service this same treatment of the pandemic. The legal basis is clear: although the European Commission has limited this exemption to imports, Portugal considers that the limitation, even if temporary, to imports would be a violation of the principle of neutrality in the sense of free competition and therefore extends the exemption to acquisitions provided by national entities. The second proposal has no legal basis. It is a matter of granting the reduced rate for sale to the public of masks and gel solutions for skin disinfection. However, what has happened was that the European Commission has been wrong in this matter, only saying that the current directive does not allow and that the proposal for a directive which has reduced rates, if approved, would allow. This led the Member States to carry out consultation procedures between themselves and Portugal to conclude that the Government could propose to the Assembly of the Republic the adoption of this measure, although with limited effects, to deal with the current pandemic. It is in those circumstances that we bring the proposal here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u108	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of this public health crisis, caused by the new coronavirus, that the NAP has been alerting itself to the need to take steps to prevent access to personal protection goods, such as ethyl alcohol, disinfectant gel, gloves or masks, from being a luxury or privilege accessible only to some. As long as the government thought whether or not to take action, the weeks passed and prices shot. Pay 10 € for a mask of the most basic or pay 20 € for an ethyl alcohol bottle became the new normal in Portuguese life. With the practice of these prices, many citizens have been prevented from protecting themselves, among them, many of which are found in risk groups. The situation reached such a point that ASAE ( Food and Economic Security Authority ) detected products to be sold with profit margins exceeding 1000 %. These situations, in which companies take advantage of the public health crisis and the fear of people to gain, more than immoral and inhumane, are absolutely criminal. And under these circumstances the State cannot turn its back. Only after more than a month had passed after the start of the crisis situation and after the rejection of a NAP proposal by Parliament, with the vote against the PS, the PSD, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative and the Abstention of the Arrival and the CFP, in which the Government finally decided to set limits on profit in these essential products as a form of prevention of contamination with the new coronary virus. And this is how it proposes, with more than a month's delay and damage to the Portuguese portfolio and health, to the Assembly of the Republic a reduction in VAT in respect of skin disinfectant gel and respiratory protective masks. These are urgent measures for the lives of citizens, which are only late, and they naturally rely on the support of the NAP. However, on this occasion we cannot fail to make two brief remarks on this proposal from the Government. First of all, it should be noted that the Government's proposal refers only to masks and disinfectant gel, leaving out other important goods for the prevention and combat of COVID-19, such as gloves, ethyl alcohol, visors or protective facts. For this reason, the appeal remains to the honourable Members. Members for the approval and acceptance of the NAP proposal, which aims precisely to correct the manifest inconsistencies in the Government proposal. Secondly, we would like to point out that these measures proposed by the Government will only effectively combat speculative prices if the Government takes additional measures to ensure, on the one hand, the strengthening of human and technical resources for monitoring purposes and, on the other hand, to ensure a significant investment in the national production of these equipment, so that we are not as dependent on the outside. Finally, at a time when the return to normality is discussed, one of the minimum aspects that, in our view, must be guaranteed is the massive provision of individual protective equipment since day 1 of the resumption of activities. Let us hope that the Government will be able to stand up to this moment when it is required to be effective in the name of health and life of all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u110	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Proposal for Law No 29 / XIV / 1. in fact, as Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs said, two different matters. As regards VAT, it equates intra-Community transactions with extra-Community transactions, which the Union has already exempted, as can be read in the articles listed in the Annex to this initiative, and reduces its rate for masks and gel solutions. Mr. Secretary of State, I accept your explanation. I hope it is not even a temporary reduced rate, because I do not see why the acquisition of masks and gel cannot be comparable to the purchase of medicines. But we'll go there. That's not the point. Secondly, it seems very good to us that the limits laid down in the Budget on public guarantees, such as credit insurance, security insurance and investment insurance, as well as the ceiling for the Mutual Counter-Guarantee Fund, are extended by EUR 1300 million. Therefore, our position will be favourable, because we consider it essential that there is liquidity in the economy. In fact, this will reduce the probability of these counter-guarantees ever being executed. But this is only true, sirs. Secretary of State and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if the measures come out of the paper. Judging by what has been the route and track record of credit lines as collateral and the layoff regime, the probability of this happening is not enormous. In the case of credit lines, the arrival of money to companies is the check-out and with huge complaints about what the Portuguese Mutual Guarantee System ( GSPM) is, among others, for example, being bureaucratically asking for. On the Layoff regime, the Minister for Economic Affairs himself yesterday apologized because only 61 % of the requests were supported. I therefore leave here my support for Bill No 29 / XIV / 1. the, but I also leave a warning, also a small reminder: only the measures that come out of the role are that help the economy and people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal presented by the Government today is the first correction to the State budget for 2020 and covers two completely different themes, for which we have three minutes to intervene. This amending budget — this is a amending budget if we consider that, as the Council of Public Finance says, it consists of an amendment to the State budget, subject to the approval of the Assembly of the Republic — it has two fundamental aspects. The first has to do with changing the VAT of masks. Obviously we agree with this measure. Just sin late, it should have been presented longer. The CDS proposes, in fact, that it be extensible, at least, to gloves and visors. I think we will all agree that we are not facing objects that people can even choose whether or not they want to acquire, we are facing absolutely essential goods to the world in which we live. So from our point of view, this proposal is only late, but we are obviously in favour of it. We also propose the extension of the VAT return regime to IPSS light and gas. Basically, what we are proposing is that, to help the IPSS, at least in some things, they do not pay a part of VAT. This is a rather moderate and responsible proposal. Secondly, this amendment to the State budget refers to a matter that is completely different and has to do with the State guarantees. On this subject, Secretary of State, I would like to know what we are going to vote on. It is clear that we will be in favour of increasing the ceiling, because that depends substantially on the support that the State is giving to the economy. But what is proposed is, on the one hand, an increase in the ceiling for credit insurance — it should have already arrived; although it is coming, it is only worth arriving now — and, on the other hand, an increase in the ceiling for the Counterguarantee Fund and the assumption of guarantees by the State. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to know whether this corresponds to what the Government has announced more than one month ago, i.e. credit lines guaranteed by the State, amounting to EUR 6 billion. I would also like you to tell us if, of these 6 billion, at least 6 million have already come to the account of some company. It is that what we have heard, that we have heard over the past week and that we continue to hear is that this money, purely and simply, is not coming. In short, in the light of this first amendment to the State budget, what I would like to know is whether you can tell us whether what the government is systematically announcing in theory has already worked in practice for some worker or company.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u114	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will vote in favour of this initiative. I therefore welcome the PSD for proposing VAT reduction for protective equipment. What we call 'essential goods' is, in fact, vital goods, because they are fundamental to our safeguarding, to our health and, above all, to our survival at a time like this. This reduction in VAT means an increase in the guarantee of survival of thousands of individuals who take poor incomes, and some do not even take them. This is something, indeed, absolutely fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u116	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: As regards the exemptions from customs and VAT exemptions on imports of goods necessary for combating the virus, as well as the reduction of VAT on goods such as alcohol-gel, ethyl alcohol or protective masks, we agree. However, we must not fail to say that these VAT reductions must be accompanied by a strong monitoring by the competent authorities of the prices that are being applied in these products. Knowing the speculative price increases in recent weeks, the Government cannot allow this reduction of VAT to be fully absorbed by marketers, maintaining the final price, and has instruments for this, such as fixing maximum ceilings. We will not follow the amendments which aim to extend the reduction of the VAT rate in respect of goods which are not recommended by the DGS for generalised use of citizens. With regard to the increases in the limits of the guarantees provided by the State, we cannot fail to note that the Government's option of using banking brokerage as the only instrument to bring support to companies has proved insufficient and problematic, especially for micro and small enterprises, who are getting out of these support. Last week, we heard the representatives of the five largest banks and it became clear that these support comes to large and medium-sized enterprises, especially those who are used to dealing with and competing with the various support programmes. The micro and small enterprises, which are the ones most in need of support at the moment, are confronted with a huge bureaucracy, with the need for documentation beyond what is protocoled and, even when they comply with this whole bureaucracy, are subject to the risk assessment criteria of the bank, which are prior to the outbreak of the epidemic and which are removed from a reality that is completely different today. Who determines, in the current context, whether a company is viable or not? Who says that a company that has had an occasional non-compliance with a bank is automatically considered inviolable? And those who are performing a PER(special process of revitalization)? And those who have negative results because they recently started their activity? Are they considered automatically inviolable for these reasons? Oh, my God! These hearings have shown that other solutions are needed, such as the creation of a public fund to support the treasury of micro and small enterprises, providing zero interest, as the CFP has defended. If this fund does not move fast, we are faced with the possibility of closing thousands of micro and small businesses, which, in the context of an economy like ours, would be an economic and social disaster. We do not oppose the fact that the State guarantees may have limits above those in the State budget, because the current situation so requires. But we want to make it clear that for the CFP the extension of guarantees provided by the State must, above all, be directed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperatives, enterprises in the business sector and not to cover the needs of monopoly groups and the use they can make of the current situation. If the Government and the Assembly of the Republic approve the five draft laws submitted by the CFP on support for small and medium-sized enterprises, there, yes, we will be giving the appropriate response to the effort that so many micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have made to keep the country running. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u118	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country is living a critical moment, a pandemic crisis, and is plunged into an economic and social crisis which, to which everything indicates, will be the most serious that any of us present in this Chamber have already lived. It is therefore natural that the Government needs legal instruments to minimize the impact of this situation, and this bill is another such instrument. We note that this diploma welcomes what the President of the PSD proposed a few weeks ago: the reduction of VAT for individual protective masks and disinfectant gel. This proposal to reduce VAT to its lowest rate is essential for the protection of citizens in the face of the pandemic crisis we are experiencing. As a requirement of the Directorate-General for Health, the use of these products is therefore essential. It was Dr. Rui Rio that the proposal and the PS and the government welcomed, so we are all working together in the same direction and with the same objective, something that I would like to welcome. At the same time, this bill brings the first correction to the State budget. And this correction is important, because it increases the State's guarantees to loans to be granted in the financial system and increases by more than 300 % compared to the value which was entered in the budget. And only the 300 % increase in this ceiling shows the perspective of the scale of the economic crisis we can live on. Is that enough? We don't know. But God wants us to do this and to stay very short, because that would mean that the economic impact would not have been so serious. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can now be proposing increases for public guarantees of 8 billion, or 10 billion, or 80 billion, or 150 billion, but if this money does not reach the companies we are doing here, it is useless. And because we do not want it and do not expect it and because what is at stake is the national interest, we ask — consider the word they want — for the government to do everything it has to do, like ending the bureaucracy, to use its judiciary of influence with the financial system and to give direct guidance to the mutual guarantee societies so that this money will quickly reach the companies in good time. If not, we lose all, lose Portugal, and that is not what none of us want. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u120	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The fight against COVID-19 is indeed a challenge for all of us, and ensuring that we have all the necessary means to do so is a responsibility of the State. In tax matters, we consider it to be of the most fundamental justice that the goods and equipment needed to combat the pandemic deserve differentiated tax treatment, particularly in the context of VAT. This issue has been addressed here in Parliament for some time now, as already mentioned by Dr. Rui Rio and Mr. Prime Minister. We therefore believe that there is a broad consensus on this matter, and that is what is on the table today. In the background, what do you propose? A full exemption or zero rate for intra-Community transmissions and acquisitions of goods necessary to combat this outbreak of COVID-19 by the State, public bodies or non-profit organisations, as well as the application of the reduced VAT rate to intra-Community imports and transmissions. I would like to say, with particular relevance and emphasis, that when the country prepares to leave its confinement gradually and progressively, it is necessary to ensure that all people have at their disposal the necessary means of protection. Masks and gel are recommended, in particular, by WHO and by the Directorate-General for Health, so it makes every sense that they are taxed at a reduced rate. This diploma also has another aspect, which has already been clarified here, on the basis of the European Commission's decision to authorize the Portuguese State to approve support up to EUR 13 billion, which is the need to promote investment insurance and the support of the State for these credit instruments. In fact, in view of the large number of requests which the economy itself is showing, on the basis of the values existing in the applications, it is necessary to increase these numbers of guarantees. Article 161. that of the State budget provides precisely a set of limits, a set of ceilings, and, both from the perspective of exports and from the perspective of insurance and support to guarantee funds to leverage and allow mutual guarantee companies to provide the necessary collateral support, what we have on the table today are increases for security insurance up to a limit of EUR 3 million, against mutual guarantee up to EUR 1300 million and a ceiling of EUR 7 billion in the case of guarantees for other public law collectives. We are therefore, on the whole, setting limits on the order of EUR 11 300 million, which enables and ensures the conditions that we all want, i.e. that the requests that the entrepreneurs submitted for use of credit lines are speeded up as quickly as possible and that they arrive at the companies. Finally, referring to the fact that the PS is reviewing this text of the bill and will therefore vote in favour of it and are convinced that there will be a broad consensus in the Assembly of the Republic on the proposals announced. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u122	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u123	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: We already know what this bill is about and that it has two objectives. On the one hand, it aims to extend all the guarantees that the State may grant, by amending the last State budget, either in terms of credit insurance or companies against guarantee. The measure is positive and will have our vote in favour, but it falls within the framework of the economic support solution that has been found and advocated by the government, which is based essentially on bank credit brokered by the bank. We believe that this measure is insufficient, that it will become increasingly inadequate as the economic crisis progresses and that it is necessary to invest in economic recovery. The measure is insufficient because, on the one hand, as has already been said, there is difficulty in operating credit lines, which do not reach companies that are experiencing difficulties. at this moment, it is very difficult to measure what is a company in difficulty or not. Companies with greater difficulty in dealing with bureaucracy, such as micro-enterprises, and with less relation to banking also have more problems in accessing credit lines. All of this makes it difficult for a company that is already very fragile and marked by micro-enterprises. On the other hand, it must be taken into account that injecting banking credit into companies, i.e. debt, will make our productive fabric more fragile in the future and may make economic recovery even more difficult, creating a problem of solvency. When we join the end of the moratoriums with payments added to the bank to increase debt with more interest and new obligations we may be facing a problem of solvency that did not exist, but that was created precisely because the State did not know how to find other ways to support the economy, for example through subsidies or direct support to the treasury. This is certainly a debate that we will continue to have. The second objective of this proposal for a law concerns the exemption of VAT on imports of protection products — fully agreed! — also in reducing VAT for masks and alcohol-gel. It is a positive measure, which may have sinned late, but that is not the point of discussion. I am glad that it came into force as soon as possible. I just wanted to make a warning: the fall in VAT on such products does not in any way prevent speculation on prices and, as has already been said, does not prevent traders from finally internalising the fall in VAT rather than having an impact on the generality of people who are thus prevented from accessing these products at more affordable prices. We therefore want to know how the Government intends to prevent this reduction in VAT from being internalised by traders and thus to ensure that the consumer price falls. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u124	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u125	Mr President, because it is the government that has to answer these questions — and we hope you will do so this time — I mean, very briefly, that the Secretary of State has given us a different answer today than the one he has already given us. He said that, after consultations between States, they might be illegal, or at least an appearance of illegality, and said that it would be limited. Question : limited to what? Limited in time? Limited in quantity? Limited to territorial expansion? We need to know what will be done. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State said that the measure will now enter into force, which leads us to believe that those who have already paid VAT will not have any compensation, such as the municipalities that complained and proposed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u126	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u127	I'm asking you. Will there be, or will there be, a compensation fund that allows municipalities to compensate for this expenditure? These are two very concrete questions that you would like the Secretary of State to answer, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u128	To close this debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr André Ventura, I am very pleased to answer the question you have just put. The bill is very clear in the following sense: when we are extending the exemption from VAT to national companies providing the SNS and municipal chambers, we are creating retroactive effects on 30 January exactly so that they are on an equal footing with existing companies outside the European area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u131	I would like to underline this, because it is an important measure for Portuguese business fabric, which was able to reinvent itself in the crisis and to produce another type of product that did not produce. Even if the European Commission has not done so, with this measure we are restoring justice within the legality of the principle of non-destruction of competition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government hopes that the reduction in the VAT rate for these products will be accompanied, with great responsibility, by whom it sells them, because we approve the fall in the VAT rate which does not guarantee, such as the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen said - and good! — lower prices of masks and ice. We therefore have the measure to control the profit margin of these companies, but these companies have the social responsibility of, in the crisis, not remaining at the expense of taxpayers, with the tax margin that we are returning, essentially to families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, record the consensus on the increase in the guarantees provided by the State, which Parliament is preparing to authorize. We also reflect the concern of the honourable Members. Members that the measures reach the economy, families, people. We all have this concern, she is not exclusive to some. However, I also want the ladies. Members do the exercise of reflecting that we are doing everything for, in record time, we can create the instruments, operationalize them and make them reach families and the economy. And I'd like to give two examples. On VAT, for example, the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen said that the measure was too late. But I ask: sin late on what? Until now, within the European Union only Austria and Greece have decreased the VAT rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u133	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about the various measures that we have taken, and there are many, I would just like to give the example of the many companies that have quietly joined in the flexible payment of taxes. Mr Duarte Alves, I am going to give you one news: it was not the big companies that joined in the flexibility of tax payments, but they were, in a way, overwhelmingly, in number and in value, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u134	No, they didn't! It was the media, it wasn't the small ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u135	Together, we will continue to work so that all the measures we are designing, operating and putting into practice can serve for what is most important, which is support for families and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u136	We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which consists of a current debate required by the government on the relaunch of the post-COVID economy. To open the debate, Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Good afternoon to all. this weekend will end the state of emergency decreed by the President of the Republic and subsequently renewed. It is the beginning of a long journey, not a return to the normality of our community life. It is the beginning of a new phase, in a long journey of construction of a new normality. We will have to learn to live with the coronavirus, we will have to ensure that our community life, our social life, the way we circulate, we work, we consume if we adapt to the rules and cultural habits, habits of living adjusted to this new reality. So far, thanks to the self-discipline of the Portuguese, we have managed to contain the rate of spread of the disease. Especially thanks to the great requirement in the context of confinement, we were able to consistently reduce the number of deaths caused by the disease, the number of hospitalizations in health services, the number of cases in intensive care units. That is what gives us confidence for this new phase of living with the disease, which will be more demanding, more difficult and that testing-CL will test us all. We will have to be able to leave home and, by doing so, to be disciplined enough to continue to protect ourselves and others. Today the Government has adopted a set of measures and resolutions laying down the terms in which a set of restrictions on our corporate and economic life will begin to be lifted in the near future. These resolutions constitute a first step towards the construction of this new normality. Fortnightly, in a shared way with the other sovereign bodies, with the parties with parliamentary representation, with the social partners, with a number of relevant economic and social actors, we will share the information needed to appreciate the health situation in our country and we will see if we can walk towards the lifting of new restrictions. Depending on this information, depending on the degree of ability of our health services to deal with the most serious cases, depending on our ability to adopt safety rules and to have the ability to monitor the evolution of the disease, we will take the new steps. I would like to share with the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the general lines of these rules. Thus, already on the next 4th of May, Monday, the Portuguese will continue to maintain a civic duty of collection which implies that our travels should be limited to all activities that will be recognized in this new phase. We will allow the reopening of retail trade and services facilities with up to 200 m2 and with direct access to the street. We will also allow the opening of booksellers, car stands and service facilities in the area of beauty care, barbershops and hairdressers. We will maintain the need for telework throughout the month of May. In June, if the conditions so permit, we will gradually lift the requirement of telework so that we can learn how to move with limitations. When travelling in public transport, which will see its limited lotion, we will be forced to wear masks. The same will apply in workplaces where this is justified and where it is not possible to maintain social distance for workers from all establishments open to the public and also for customers of the commercial spaces. We will also reopen the dedicated public services on May 4, but only at the end of the month will we be able to evaluate the possibility of opening the shops of the citizen. In the second fortnight of May, we will assess the conditions for opening the restaurants and cafes, with limits to their lot, to 50%, and with special care, which are being agreed, in terms of hygiene, health and safety for all those who attend them. in this fortnight, we will also allow the opening of commercial spaces up to 400 m2. At the end of the month, if everything allows, we will also open all trade spaces, including shopping centres. Our schools will have presenceal educational activities for the 11th. o and 12. the years from May 18th. Also on May 18, they will be able to open the day-care centers, however, until the end of the month, social support for families will be maintained. From 1 June, we will also allow the opening of the pre-school. Already next Monday, they'll open the libraries and the files. On May 18, they will open museums, public monuments and art galleries. And, at the end of the month, they will open the cinemas, the theaters, the auditoriums and the showrooms, with limitations to their lot. From next Monday, the practice of individual outdoor sports will be allowed. And at the end of the month, it will be possible to resume professional competition in the First Football League. It is a demanding path, it is a path that will require by all Portuguese a degree of discipline, of commitment to our collective life, with the protection of all, so that we can maintain confidence in our ability to, by regaining our corporate life, our economy, continue to have this pandemic under control. And it is with the same confidence that we have verified the behaviour of the Portuguese during the period of confinement that we now see this new phase of our collective life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u138	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since this important debate is important, it is important to divide it into two interconnected periods — the immediate response to the health crisis and the impacts it has had and the economic reconstruction measures, which is also what we are talking about here. And I say they connect because, without immediate answers that defend health, economics and employment, reconstruction measures will be more difficult to achieve and will have a slower pace. The urgent response measures that have been taken are, in itself, a choice on the way ahead. And unfortunately part of the income of the austerity period is already being used in our view. We have, on the one hand, the devaluation of wages, through the dismissal of thousands of precariouss, even before the declaration of the state of emergency, and through the court operated by layoff and support for the follow-up of children. But we also have the nationalization of damage, that is, while the distribution of dividends is still allowed, the State assumes the costs of unemployment. And the shareholders, these, are saving profits in off-shoreers for later fire and ask for state support again. And thirdly, we have the indebtedness of companies and people. Although immediate measures to respond to the crisis, such as moratoriums and credit lines, are important to many, the truth is that we are talking about accumulating debt, which will have a strong impact on families and on micro and small businesses. Therefore, this is a path that, if it is not corrected from now on, will have, in our view, very negative consequences in the future. On the other hand, there are, within several sectors of the economy, those who continue with little or no response: micro and small entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs on their own behalf, something that concerns us very much, which we have already had the opportunity to discuss with the Minister. Despite the attempt to say that no one would stay behind, the truth is that many are staying behind. Thousands of micro-enterprises continue today without access to credit lines or any other existing support. This happens, it seems to us, because we have forgotten the true dimension of Portuguese economic fabric. Just consult the latest data from INE (National Institute of Statistics ) that reveal, without surprise, that are the most affected micro-enterprises with the crisis. at the same time as this happens, abuses proliferate in large companies, which, however, can access state support. And it wasn't hard to have stopped this, Minister. Force the renewal of precarious contracts during the pandemic and prohibit the distribution of dividends, for example, such as the Left Block proposed, would protect jobs, wages and productive capacity of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u141	And we talked about measures that other countries could easily adopt. So we ask: why has Portugal not adopted these employment and economic protection measures earlier? We therefore believe that it is urgent to respond to the problems that have arisen since the beginning of this pandemic and that it is urgent to cut off, from now on, the logic of austerity policies that have come to the fore. And it is necessary to ensure that economic and social support is maintained, such as house rental moratoriums or the guarantee of access to essential and necessary goods beyond the duration of the state of emergency. It is also necessary that these support should reach those who, so far and during this period, have remained and are still without support. The Government disagreed with the Left Block on the measures we have put forward to defend employment and direct capital injection in micro and small businesses for payment of wages. It preferred the simplified layoff mechanism, which has the limitations we have already mentioned: it reduces workers' income, it deals equally with companies that have real difficulties with those who come from profits of millions, and, above all, leaves thousands of precarious workers behind. But here we have to question this specific measure of simplified layoff, which was chosen by the government. Recent news indicates that workers' wages may be at risk for delays in social security. Therefore, a clear response is required from the Government on this matter. Workers will not be free of wages and without any answer only because the government has not properly implemented the solutions it has promised. So, Minister, I ask you: how does the Government explain the delay in paying salaries to workers in layoff and when does it intend to solve this serious problem? A second question has to do with the role of mutual guarantee companies in granting credit to companies. A number of difficulties have been reported, including excessive bureaucracy, which is being asked for, in addition to what has been approved and contained in the legislation, which is obviously creating very great difficulties, in particular, and again, for micro and small entrepreneurs, who are the most disadvantaged. We would like to find out more about these issues. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u142	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the IL, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a sign of defination, the « liberal minute» returns today. And come back with an appeal: on this occasion, we call on the Government to, in the civic duty of collection which it has now designated, add the general duty of daring against fear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u144	But they don't buy beans with daring! You don't even pay the bill of light!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u145	It is because fear has surprised us and paralyzed us and will end up making us prolong and deepen an economic crisis that will make more victims, at various levels, than did the pandemic itself. And reopening a little of the 15-day economy won't avoid this scenario. Gradually, we all have to learn to live with the risk, we have to dare. And the government is the first one responsible for creating the conditions so that we can fulfill our general duty of daring: with a test strategy that does not allow, for example — and I could give many, but I will give this — that an infected person in a factory, in a school, in a community or in an office sends everyone home for 15 days; and truly communicating the risks of contagion at this new stage, what to do in order to reduce them and, in this way, to stimulate daring against fear. So if we want to thank the health professionals and the security forces who were on the front line, more than palms, daring. If we want to thank the waitress officials and the transport workers, more than words of circumstance, daring. If we want to thank the agricultural workers and supermarkets, those of the factories that never stopped, I dare against fear. This is a responsible appeal. We do not argue that if the risks are ignored, we do not advocate that the containment measures are lifted. But we argue that if we do not reduce, with good sense and weight, but quickly, the fear of the disease we have today, we will have much more serious problems and consequences tomorrow. in this tension between fear and daring, the plan that the Government presents today is still too much on the side of fear and, in our opinion, does not encourage the Portuguese to assume the general duty of daring.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u146	Mr President, on behalf of the House, by exceeding the time it had today, instead of 1 minute, we had two minutes of freedom. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new coronavirus has allowed us a first glimpse of what our future will be if we do not change the way we relate to nature. It has shown us the scale of the challenges we have to face if we do not change the path that has brought us here. We need more of the planet than it needs us, and of course we need to change the model of socio-economic development and prioritize environmental policies and combat climate change. History tells us that, after an economic crisis, the tendency is that recovery is based on a productive emergency at all costs and without looking at means. In the coming months, governments desperate to raise GDP (gross domestic product) from their countries will discourage investment in clean technologies and call for delays in the targets of decarbonisation. See what the Portuguese Government has already done on the financing lines for the economy by continuing to support polluting and fossil-related activities. For the NAP, the country's economic recovery cannot be made using taxpayers' money to rescue polluting industries, but targeting it for investments in sustainable models. Taxes should be applied to carbon emissions rather than wages. The economic recovery must reaffirm the commitments to the European Ecological Pact and the Paris Agreement, ensuring a climate-neutral economy, creating green jobs and placing social justice and the well-being of people in front of other interests that have captured the State. In economic recovery, the path must pass through clean renewable energy and energy efficiency. Even if this does not please EDP, it is necessary to support micro-production of energy and the storage of renewables, giving families greater autonomy, reducing the country's dependence and energy poverty. The public health crisis we live in shows us not only that telework is viable and does not reduce productivity but also how urgent it is to bet on sustainable mobility. The country should begin investing in rail on a broad basis and in interconnected networks in public transport that make them attractive for mass use. Public transport has to stop being synonymous with lack of supply, delays and canned sardine. Portugal depends too much on external markets. We must therefore adopt policies to reduce dependence on food chains from outside and adapt forest and agriculture to new climate reality. These objectives are implemented by policies that prioritize our food sovereignty, particularly in organic agriculture, local production, family production and proximity, changing the rules for public procurement and food supply to the canteens and restaurants of public services and hospitals, so that they are predominantly national and sustainable production. But Portugal will only have an agricultural policy at the service of people, health and the environment when the Ministry of Agriculture ceases to be captured by the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). Tourism is also a sector where there is a set of commitments that must be made prior to the allocation of support. There are lessons to be learned from the impact this crisis has had on the sector, and this is the right time to think about a new strategy for tourism that increases its resilience to future crises, based on greater geographical proximity and that values the quality or duration of stays. But responding to this economic emergency also means that the bulk of economic support is directed towards strengthening the social state: for the National Health Service, making it more resilient to crises like the one we are going through, and to protect the income of workers and small and medium-sized enterprises. And we do not accept that they tell us that the path must be that of austerity. People already know this recipe and the terrible effects it implies, and they do not want to repeat it. This crisis cannot be paid by the same ones as ever, who have suffered over the years with successive income losses, with job insecurity and with the degradation of their quality of life. If money is needed, the ruinous road PPPs (public-private partnerships) will be renegotiated, which will be withdrawn only this year from the state’s euro 1500 million vaults and will cost the Portuguese three times as much as their initial cost in 20 years. If money is needed, it will end up with support to cover the holes of the New Bank, which only cost this year EUR 850 million to the country. If money is needed, let us have the courage to implement policies that will deepen transparency and combat corruption in our country, which cost us EUR 18 billion annually. If money is needed, it will put an end to the perverse tax exemptions on polluting products, which cost public coffers more than EUR 500 million per year. If money is needed, a firm regulation of tax havens is required within the framework of the European Union, which makes us lose taxes on the Netherlands amounting to EUR 236 million per year. If money is needed, the aviation sector will be taxed. If money is needed, let us not be afraid to defend a deepening of European integration at the economic and financial level, for example the immediate implementation of debt-emission mechanisms. It is time for a new political attitude. You have the courage to face those who have the most resources but have been touched. There is a responsibility not to finance a euro which is the polluting industries. There is a vision of charging carbon taxes rather than wages. This is where we have to collect the recipe we lack to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u148	You have the floor by the PCP for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : There are two previous issues we want to raise in this debate. The first question is: we agree that you look forward, but you cannot push forward. There are thousands and thousands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises at risk who cannot wait for a desired recovery, because they are waiting for social security responses, bank responses, to whom the government has given the brokerage of support to companies, effective aid which cannot only be used for large businesses and some of the media, forgetting that more than 99 % of our economic fabric is made up of micro and small enterprises. The second previous question: saving the economy is, of course, saving wages and jobs, not saving economic groups and allowing the attack on rights. If there is a lesson that we can withdraw from recent years, there is no growth or economic development if the option is to cut wages and wages. in a situation where external markets will be clearly conditioned, the Portuguese economy will depend even more on the internal market, which cannot be compressed by the current options. A central aspect in this debate is the defence of the fundamental rights provided for in the Constitution, which constitute limits and brakes to abuses committed on the pretext of the outbreak and, at the same time, the basis of the response needed to build a sovereign path of national development. The country needs a policy to guarantee and value wages, to ensure employment stability and to eliminate precariousness, to combat unemployment, to ensure the reduction of working hours and their compatibility with family life, and in particular to require an ambitious programme to expand and strengthen public employment. Immediately, it is necessary to ensure the full payment of wages to all workers, to prohibit lay-offs, to extend social support, to ensure the protection and protection of the health of thousands of workers who perform essential functions. It will be essential to diversify economic activity by promoting, in particular, industry, agriculture and fisheries, combating addictions and deficits that have been dragged down for decades, replacing imports by national production, guaranteeing food and energy sovereignty. As it was exposed in the current situation, it was and it would be a mistake to keep buying out what the country has already shown to be able to produce in here. Immediately, it is necessary to ensure access to income support for micro and small entrepreneurs, to defend small and medium-sized farmers and fishermen and their role in national supply, to ensure the income of small producers and the conditions for the flow of production, to combat the speculation of the prices of essential goods and services and to ensure their regulation. The recovery of public control of companies and strategic sectors should be developed not to socialize losses and privatize again, as happened in the financial sector, but to place companies such as TAP, ANA — Airports de Portugal, CTT, EDP or REN, and sectors such as banking or motorways, at the service of the country's development.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u151	Immediately, prompt intervention is required to limit and prevent the distribution of dividends by economic groups, to buy back shares and to establish limits and controls on the movement of capital. It is essential to launch a strong investment in public services, breaking with its underfinancing, degradation and privatization. Public investment needs to be dynamized, according to the country's development needs in several areas, such as health, social security, education, scientific research, culture, transport, energy and public equipment. Immediately, it is necessary to ensure that the necessary professionals are hired in public services and to ensure their ability to respond, from the outset, to the needs that have been accumulated in times of confinement. In public services there are no more workers, there are fewer workers. It is necessary, in particular in this situation, to ensure justice in fiscal policy, to degrade taxation on workers' incomes and indeed to tax economic groups. Immediately, it is necessary to put an end to the tax privileges of the economic groups, to combat fraud and tax evasion, to put an end to billions of euros spent on PPPs and the bank. The right-wing policy options are opposite to the interests of the workers and the people and the solutions necessary for the country's structural problems. The country needs to recover instruments of sovereignty, particularly at the economic and monetary level, with its release from submission to the euro, a requirement that is even more inconsequential than the false exit imposed by the European Union, adding debt to debt, and which would bind Portugal to decades of economic and social definition. As a matter of urgency, it is essential to reconcile the guarantee of access to large-scale financial resources with measures to reduce the burden of debt. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : These are central elements of an alternative policy that responds to national problems and corresponds to the interests of the workers, the people and the country. That is what patriotic and left-wing policy means, and that is why it is so urgent and indispensable to take this option to overcome the situation ahead. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u152	For an intervention by the PSD, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: in this important debate on the recovery of the post-COVID economy, I would like to begin by saying that the PSD is very concerned about the economy and is concerned, above all, with the lack of support for businesses, which Mr Economics is not reaching businesses in good time. Otherwise, let's see the layoff situation. The government has announced the simplified layoff, but we now see that it is all less simplified, it is a process which involves too much bureaucracy and is hampering access to support. Mr Prime Minister said here, in the last fortnight's debate, that payments would be made on 24th, 28th and 30th April. For today it is April 30 and this support did not reach all companies, as promised. Now, until now, Mrs. Minister of Labour has come to say that payment, in the cases in question, will be made on May 5. I take this moment to ask the Minister, even to reassure the companies who eagerly await this fundamental support for their liquidity, if the Government ensures that it will indeed be on 5 May that this payment will be made, in the face of all the procedures already approved. Another issue that I would like to address, Minister, concerns business managers. On the one hand, if we can say that the PSD welcomes the fact that the Government has listened to it and has come to give support to business managers in legislation, on the other hand, we regret that the government has fallen short of this support. I must tell you, Mr Minister, that you do not understand, and we do not accept that these managers, these workers, these families, are beyond this fundamental support. So the PSD presented a bill...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u154	That's why they voted against ours!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u155	... that will be discussed in this House next week. And we hope it will be approved, because it is fundamental justice to support these workers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u156	You now have the floor by the ENP for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: We all realize that we have a long walk ahead of us, because every step must be taken with our feet firmly on the ground so that we will not lose everything. We know that it is time not to take risks and, on this matter, it seems to me that we all agree. As regards the relaunch of the economy, as we have already mentioned on other occasions, this journey is very dependent on how the government can not only stop the redundancies, which continue to move forward, but also ensure the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which, being fundamental to our economy, are very dependent on domestic demand. And, as expected, even when the country begins to move, the internal market will take time to reach desirable levels, since a very significant universe of families has lost purchasing power, or because they have been deprived of a significant part of their incomes, especially workers who are in layoff regime, or because they have been unemployed, and many even without any social support. But without internal demand, without the internal market, the life of small businesses will continue in a very critical state, even after the health crisis. It is therefore necessary not only to extend the support to people who do not have support today, but also to extend the support that is currently only planned for the duration of the emergency state. And we need to maintain support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, because if we don't go there. We know that the way could be shorter if, for example, the government obliged banks to secure access to credit lines to all small businesses meeting the criteria defined by the government, because what is happening is that banks see access to credit lines to small businesses that understand, even if these companies meet the legal criteria, and in the face of such difficulties small entrepreneurs find no other way out than the closure. If we add to this the small entrepreneurs who have given up, in the face of the high spreads and the conditions required by the banks, we have the size of the small enterprises that could still be in operation and the jobs that would still remain. But in spite of everything, we can draw some conclusions from this crisis and look at it as an opportunity to rethink the priorities that have guided our lives, the way we live, produce and consume and, above all, the relationship we want to establish with nature. Then, and for those who had doubts, this crisis made it very clear that the more strengthened the National Health Service is the most appropriate to respond to crises like the one we are living in. Therefore, this crisis reinforces the need to invest seriously in the National Health Service and the appreciation of its professionals. It has also been clear that we must turn to national production and regain our food sovereignty, renaissance the proximity markets and small distribution circuits, which are absolutely essential for farmers to be able to drain their products. But it is also necessary to give body to the status of family farming, which there is no way out of the role. It is necessary to redequate the role of the State in the economy and place the bank at the service of the relaunch of the economy instead of continuing to transfer public resources to support the private bank, which are indispensable for this desirable relaunch. It is also time to evaluate the public-private partnerships and to put an end to the legal fraud that is instituted and that the tax havens represent and in other immoralities that we have been used to accepting as normal, from the very gift that is given to large companies that, by earning their profits in our country, place their tax office in countries such as the Netherlands, so as not to pay their taxes here. It is EUR millions and millions that can be channeled to ensure support for families in desperate situations and to support small businesses so that they can also contribute to the recovery of the economy. So we're talking about options, because it's about options. But, Mr Minister, under this circumstances, I would like to leave you a request for clarification on two matters which Mr Minister has not mentioned, because I have listened very carefully to him. The first has to do with an issue which, from the outset, has been of great concern to the Greens and in which we have insisted, which is the need to extend support to workers in small businesses under the Layoff regime who have their employees in charge. This subject has already been referred to here by the PSD, which ultimately ended up voting against the Greens proposal which wanted exactly what the PSD now claims.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u158	That's the one! And against the PCP too! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u159	The second issue concerns the guarantee deadlines for workers of temporary work enterprises to have access to unemployment benefit. My question is very simple, very objective and also requires an objective and simple response from the Government: is the Government willing to remedy these two injustices or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u161	For the PS, you now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This period we are living will certainly be known, in the history of the world economy, as the period of great confinement, even compared to another period of a major global economic crisis, which was the period of the Great Depression. It is estimated that the world economy is experiencing a very strong recession and that the accumulated losses of the various economies, in the current year and next year, can be equivalent to the German economy and the Japanese economy. This is to give us the idea of the impact this crisis has on the world economy and on all areas where the market normally works, as in the European area and also in our country. Each country's response was given according to the time when its public accounts and its economy were located, when they had to react, in their territory, to this pandemic of COVID-19. The starting point of our country has enabled the Government to ensure a set of financial resources and availability to build, as quickly as possible, a set of support for families and businesses. Good public accounts and economic growth have been fundamental for us to achieve them. The central state and local administration, which, of course, has already been very well recognized, throughout the discussions this afternoon, are mobilising all their resources, all their means of supporting families and businesses. The Government has said so many times and the PS Parliamentary Group fully endorses it: the best way to protect income is to protect employment. All measures to protect employment are, of course, aimed at protecting income. If the State is in its maximum strength of available means and of all means it can obtain from European entities, it must also acknowledge the effort that families and businesses are making. I leave a word of great recognition to Portuguese entrepreneurs from micro, small, medium and large companies who have made an unsolicited effort to manage and support their jobs. And if we recognize that government measures are appropriate, it should be remembered that layoff already covers more than 100 000 companies, i.e. more than 100 000 companies have resorted to simplified layoffs and 54 % of companies have already resorted to different tax and contribution obligations. As regards the available credit lines of around EUR 6 billion, and for our knowledge of what this represents, it should be noted that in 2019 the bank lent EUR 32 billion to companies, i.e. an average of EUR 2, EUR 8 billion per month, but what is being asked is that within a month, if it lends to companies what is normally allocated in almost 2 months and a half. More: moratoriums and credit insurance are being secured to enable companies to export more, the adequacy of the multiannual financial framework allows for anticipating incentives to businesses and state guarantees are being given. Mr Minister, you have announced a gradual defination — which we fully support — in a predictability framework for all sectors of economic activity. We would like to ask the following question: with what periodicity will the necessary assessment be made to ensure that these measures are actually effective? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u163	You have the floor for the CDS, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u164	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we have a debate called for by the government on the relaunch of the post-COVID economy. But in order to be a debate on the post-COVID, it would unfortunately have to be carried out later when there is a vaccine, when there is collective immunisation of the population. Therefore today's debate should be a debate on how to save the economy during the COVID, i.e. on how to save companies, how to save the income of families, during the COVID period. We will enter, as has been said, in the phase of defination and the CDS hopes that this defination will go well, we have this expectation. However, we have warned that there should be some weighting in age-level defining, in some regions of the country and in some sectors of activity. We would even say that we would have been a little more cautious, but as I say to you, Minister, let us hope that the defination will go well for the sake of the country. The Minister has announced the rules of this defination and it is important that these are absolutely clear, whether for businesses or for families. We live a period of uncertainty and a period of fear. After September 11, 2001, people were afraid to walk on the subway, on a bus or get into an airplane because they were afraid that the person sitting next to them could have a bomb. Today, this fear exists in relation to the virus and contamination. The state and we live in a state of emergency, but society lives in a state of despair with the disease, with the hypothesis of loss of employment, the loss of its company or its business and about its future. Today, we have 380 000 unemployed, we have 1 200 000 workers in layoff. Today, we know that we have more than one and a half million families who have lost income. And this isn't numbers, it's people and it's families. As for the measures which the Government intended to promote in response to the COVID, summarize-CL- them, basically in two, taking the part of the moratoriums: one was the lines of credit and the other was the layoff. The fact is that the Government has had difficulty in implementing these two measures, either in the credit necessary to reach businesses, or also in terms of layoff, which began to be simplified and ended up being complicated. In fact, it is enough to hear Mrs. Bastonaria from the Order of Accountants that says it is a huge confusion. Then we have social security failing payments. Yesterday, Mr Minister, in a gesture, I would even say, in humility, that the government failed to pay the layoff. But the government failed precisely where it could not fail. The CDS, also in the last half-year debate, by the voice of its parliamentary leader, questioned Mr. Prime Minister and warned that the date of April 28 was important, as it was a good sign, of confidence for businesses and for Portuguese, if the State met. The government has, to some extent, aggravated the crisis of confidence in the state, because unfortunately our greatest fears have been confirmed and the date of 28 April, the date of payment to companies, has not been met. Bureaucracy is more than much, and instead of simplifying what should be simplified, 40% of Layoff's requests have been rejected. Today is April 30, the end of the month, and Mr Minister knows, and we also know, that there are many companies and many entrepreneurs who do not have cash conditions to settle their commitments, whether with suppliers or with workers. This is a huge concern! But there is something we can and we must all be sure, in this very House: we don't save jobs if we don't save companies. Layoff works like a kind of unemployment brake, it's kind of a dam. However, there is certainty: if the State and the Government do not comply and do not simplify, 1,200 000 workers in layoffs can quickly move to the side of unemployment, i.e. unemployment and this is open. We are concerned about companies and families that need support not tomorrow, but already as needed yesterday. We reiterate a concern about the partners-managers of micro and small businesses. We are talking about 1 100 000 companies, 1 100 000 entrepreneurs, we are talking about many workers and many companies that need help. The government should set up a direct mechanism to help micro and small enterprises in two objectives: the first is information and the second is follow-up in the processes, either for credit, or for layoff. Finally, Mr Minister, I am bringing you here just one last point. The government made a campaign to say that "it is on", but unfortunately, in many cases, the state has been off.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u165	Mr President, you really have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u166	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I am bringing you here the example of the Portuguese steel industry. We are talking about 4000 companies, in many cases microenterprises, with 11 000 workers and with a turnover of more than EUR 1000 million. This sector is stopped and it's off. And why? Because in order to market these goldsmiths, you need someone to certify them. And who legalizes these same pieces? It's the House of Coin. And the House of Coin was off, stopped its activity. Thus, there is an entire sector that, not by its own will, but because the State has stopped its activity, cannot work. This is bad for the economy, Minister, this is bad for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u167	Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u168	Mr President, actually, we are here for a speech riddle. They say we are going to switch from emergency to a state of calamity, in which the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the Republic have no intervention. We see the government doing what you know best: concentrating what you want. And the President of the Republic looks at this impossible, without even worrying about what is going on. They say we're going to have a state of calamity, but with restrictions. For example, on May 13, when the Fatima celebrations are held, we're going to have restrictions. On what legal basis? This is something we are still going to discuss, perhaps, in this Parliament. On what legal basis are there restrictions on the roads? We'll have to discuss it, too. We will begin the defination, when many companies have not yet received the money they should have received from the first layoff plan that was approved by this House and at least that should concern us — we approve measures that we forget to apply to the entrepreneurs themselves who require them! Some of the sectors most affected by this crisis, such as restoration and others, are left behind in the reopening, without any special support plan. Mr André Silva, it is true that we need money and we can't go looking for it anywhere, but it's not increasing gas oil in gas pumps that's going to get money, nor is it raising travel prices for those who want to do it, nor is it nationalizing companies with Portuguese taxes. It is to the vital subsidies of politicians that we have to go and look for,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u169	Sousa Lara! Sousa Lara!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u170	...is to the public bodies that could be extinct... [[PS, BE and PAN protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u171	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u172	It is the extinction of the public bodies that we have in too much, that we do not need and that we should have been released from them for a long time. It is the real struggle against corruption and the illicit enrichment that we should go to get the money we need to fight against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u173	What about the gold? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u174	It is not putting more taxes on the middle class, on those who support this country and this economy, that we will come out of this crisis! Because today, Mr. and Mr. Minister, if the Portuguese want to get out of this crisis...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u175	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u176	I will finish, Mr. President. There are millions of Portuguese people who see us out there and who are foolish, because the only solution that there is, as always, and once again, is to put more taxes on the Portuguese and that is unacceptable in any democratic country in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u177	Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u178	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Portuguese, all Portuguese — workers, entrepreneurs, students, reformed, women, men, children — took on and fulfilled their responsibilities in the fight against this cursed virus, demonstrated a high civic sense and stayed at home. The country stayed home. The companies also met: they stayed at home and closed their doors without being able to do anything. On the 45 days of emergency, the economy stayed home. In fact, the fight against the virus, in the name of the first priority which is health and life-saving, simultaneously created a brutality of problems in the economy, in businesses and in employment, which, together, we must be able to solve. Mr Minister, the government is responsible for governing and the requirement is such, let me tell you, that there is no room for incapacity or incompetence, there is only room for difficulties and for correct and appropriate decisions at a time which is not normal. It is up to the government to act before a reality which does not reflect a choice, but rather an inevitability. Political options are a choice and the choices of governance for the economy, at the absolutely extraordinary moment that we have all come to live, were — and well! — in order to work to save employment, in order to save businesses. But it is also true that the economic impact of this confinement of companies and the country has created problems with different dimensions in the various sectors of economic activity. Sectors such as tourism, such as restoration, such as retail trade, such as transport, among many others, were forced to a brusque braking and will clearly have more difficulty in booting. There are sectors of economic activity where the response of the Government, Minister, must be much stronger so as not to result in closures and failures of companies which, due to lack of capital or financing, are unable to relocate to the market. Mr Minister, this is a time when the government's options have to respond to the real needs of the economy and businesses. I give only three examples and I would like you to answer, too, the questions I am going to ask, which are very necessary for an immediate and immediate response from the Government. I have already put this question to you in the Committee on Economic Affairs and put it back here: the state must pay all suppliers already. There is no way to tell the economy that liquidity in companies is essential if the State does not immediately fulfil its responsibilities. I honestly believe that the fact that there are State debts to companies is incomprehensible. Secondly, the Government has to respond to credit insurance needs for exporting companies. Even today, a bill has been adopted that goes in that direction. It is important now to set up this initiative and make it happen on the ground. This issue is of the utmost importance for exporting companies, which are facing enormous difficulties today because, essentially, there is a drastic reduction in the volume of credit ceilings for these companies. Thirdly, Mr Minister, the Government will have to consider now the adequacy of the limits for credit lines with the guarantee of the State, with amounts that already respond to the reality of companies. The Minister has also said that and it seems to us that there is the greatest importance of a re-analysis of the ceilings that have already been approved and are being made available to companies, but it is also important for the Government to re-examine and quickly realize that it may be necessary — the PSD has already said so several times in its proposals for the economy — to extend this amount. I think it is essential that the Government assess this point. Mr President, Minister, I conclude with tremendous certainty: more than ever, at this moment of gradual opening of the economy, the Government cannot fail with the country and with the Portuguese. It cannot fail in the transparency of information, it cannot fail in the collective commitment, which has to be this fight against the virus or gradual defination, and it cannot fail in the confidence that it is the decisive and absolutely critical link that cannot be broken between political decision makers, health authorities and all Portuguese. And I ended by quoting Almada Negroes, who told us: “When I was born, the phrases that will save humanity were all written, only one thing was missing — saving humanity. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u179	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Pedro Coimbra, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u180	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The country and the world were surprised by a pandemic for which no one was prepared. We have been able to act in time and with competence and the action of the Government and Portugal have been examples in the most diverse international reference press. Our National Health Service has been praised and has met the enormous challenge, and all its professionals deserve public recognition. That is why it is time, with great care, to start the path of economic recovery. in this sense, Minister, public investment has an important and decisive role for the country. It cannot, therefore, stop and cannot, therefore, be forgotten. I am referring to the structured public investment which has a secure and identified source of funding. This investment generates wealth, preserves and creates jobs, allowing some economic areas of activity to absorb labour rather than others, more exposed to the crisis, will certainly release. Investments such as the IP3 between Coimbra and Viseu, the Railway 2020, the expansion of the meters of Lisbon and Porto, the new central hospital of Alentejo, in Évora, the « Joãozinho », in Porto, and maternity in Coimbra, are just a few examples of the structured, programmed and discussed public investment, which seems essential to me to realise until there is a source of funding identified and secured. Mr Minister, I ask you, therefore, whether the Government has maintained, as it has been keeping public investment programmed over the last few years, with a source of funding identified and secured, as a political priority, even to contribute to the economic recovery of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u181	Let us turn to the end of this debate. The floor is Mr. Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, Pedro Siza Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several Members. Ladies and gentlemen asked me questions about recovery, recovery and economic policies for the future. I would like to try to give a joint answer to these questions. The first note I would like to leave is that, from the outset, the Government said that, in the fight against this pandemic, economic policy would have to face three different phases, with very different needs, for the economic fabric, namely: the phase of confinement, in which the pandemic would have to be contained without destroying the economy; the phase of transition, in which our corporate life would have to be resumed without the control of the epidemic and the phase of the recovery in which it would be essential to ensure the fastest possible growth of our economy. The policy instruments used in each of these phases are not the same. In the first phase, we sought to preserve as much employment as possible, family incomes and also to ensure the preservation of the productive capacity of companies at the time of recovery. These were times when the essential concern was to ensure liquidity to companies by relieving them of commitments, through bank moratoriums, tax moratoriums, through extraordinary support that we were creating for the maintenance of employment and also through the establishment of credit lines. Mrs. Members, the biggest beneficiaries of these support were micro-enterprises: 80 % of the layoff applicants are micro-enterprises; 97 % of the credit lines, with already approved operations, are for micro, small or medium-sized enterprises. at present, 16 708 companies have already approved the State guarantee for their support and half are micro-enterprises and around 53 % of the credit granted under these credit lines is already approved and the money will have to reach the economy in the near future. at the simplified layoff level, at the end of March, we assumed here the idea that it would be possible, by the end of April, to ensure the payment of layoff requests that would reach social security until that moment. Social security has not failed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and all applications made by 10 April will be paid until 5 May. Other payments have already been made on 24 April, on 28 April, today will be paid as well as on 5 May. We had an absolutely overwhelming growth in Layoff's requests: social security officials have gone beyond working day and night. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u183	And now 600 000 Portuguese have benefited from support paid: EUR 150 million have reached the treasury of businesses and the stock market of self-employed people and people in childcare. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This very difficult work, in very short time, that social security was able to mount, was very decisive. We know we can't process everything by the end of the month. We recognize this, but I wanted to leave a very important praise to all the efforts of other employees who — not just security workers, are not just health professionals — are trying to meet the responsibilities at this time. I would also like to say that, at the stage of the recovery, what is important is to be able to support companies in adapting to new health and safety rules at work and at places of consumption. We are going to launch support, which is largely lost, for micro and small businesses to be able to cope with the costs of adapting jobs precisely to these new needs. In the recovery phase, what is important is, above all, to ensure that our economy is growing as rapidly as possible, that our economy is able, as quickly as possible, to dissolve the very profound impact that we are having at this time of confinement and at this moment of transition and that it is going beyond as quickly as possible. There, the needs, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they're going to be completely different. We must certainly ensure that the public investment we have already planned is carried out. We are planning to increase public investment by around 20 % this year to EUR 4829 million. For 2021, we planned EUR 6201 million. This process is and will continue to be implemented. In March competitions of EUR 1160 million were launched. At the moment, we have contracts concluded to start works worth more than EUR 400 million. And we have to do more, we have to be able to ensure the acceleration of the public investment programme that we have already consensualized in Portuguese society. For this, it is very necessary that, together, we can make a pact to allow the acceleration of the ability to put the physical and financial implementation of our public investment on the ground more quickly. The European Commission has given us the opportunity to count on the reprogramming of PT 2020 and to spend between July this year and June next year, which are shared by 100 %. It is a very great support for our investment and our economic recovery, but it will only have an impact if we are able to run at a pace which, at the moment, the whole of the legislation that controls us prevents us. That's why, too, I call the country. We must also support private investment. And support it not in any way, but by mobilising the resources of the PT 2020 — the national resources and the resources of the future multiannual financial framework — to the challenges of the new economy in which Portugal has to stand: to support energy transition, the circular economy and the reduction of carbon emissions; to support the digitisation of our businesses and our economy; to support the process by our industry and our services, of the necessary relocation of the major national value chains, so that they can get closer to the places of consumption. Portugal, the country of the European Union, next to the largest world market, can thus benefit from this process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u184	Would you like to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u185	We will also need to support the capitalisation of companies at a future stage. It is not the time to make measures that bring money to businesses in any way, but to support the capitalisation of companies that really need to do so. Finally, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that at this new stage we protect the most fragile and ensure the coverage of the social support needed for those strips of society that are not yet covered. The Government will adopt measures to cover social cases for which there is not yet an adequate response in our social protection system. And do-CL will do it as soon as possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I ask for the Bureau's tolerance to say the following: the government is not afraid. The government has heard a lot of people two months ago say: "Close everything, close everything, close as soon as possible. At that time, we said that closing a country needed to guard the economy, the protection of the weakest, the construction of all this social network that we are bringing to the country. We closed the country and contained the disease, but now2. o -, you need to open, without fear and with confidence. And this confidence is built up by ensuring that the steps we now take to remove confinement are safe steps that enable us to assess, at every moment, that the replacement of our collective life is done without uncontrolled the disease, without undermining, in this way, the confidence of the Portuguese and showing, once again, to the world, the extraordinary example that our entire national community gives, in a cohesive manner, when it is able to affirm itself in a challenge that is perhaps the greatest of our lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded this debate and will then proceed to the vote. Before that, I would ask Mr. Nelson Peralta to announce several legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to announce a number of diplomas which have entered the Bureau and which have been admitted by Mr President. I begin by referring to Resolution Projects Nos 405 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens about best practices of waste deposition, such as masks and protective gloves, 406 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By replacing the normal functioning of the national final tests, 407 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the exemption from taxation of any extraordinary remuneration paid to professionals in the front line of the fight against the pandemic causing the disease COVID-19, during the duration of the state of emergency, 408 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government make available means of repatriation for the Portuguese, detained on a cruise ship in Japan, 409 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure that children whose parents have lost income are not excluded from day care, protecting affected families and professionals, 410 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the review and modernisation of the network of stations and substations for monitoring air quality in Portugal and the development and implementation of the Air Quality Improvement Plans provided for in the National Air Strategy for 2020, as well as the development of an annual plan for mitigating impacts caused by air pollution to ensure the improvement of air quality throughout the national territory, 411 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By building the new health center at the top of Seixalinho, at Barreiro, 412 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By regulation of the Portuguese Gestive Interpreter's profession, 413 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Specific support for Ovar municipality under exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 and 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new hospital in Lagos with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u188	Mr Duarte Pacheco will continue with this effort to announce legislative initiatives which have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u189	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have also entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 345 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Nationalization of TAP, 346 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Strengthens the social support of business managers, 347 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates support for the income of individual micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs in the context of the response to the epidemic of COVID-19, 348 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the exceptional and temporary measure of the admissibility of suspension of essential service supply contracts in the context of responses to the epidemic crisis of COVID-19, 349 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish the network of contact and support to microenterprises and individual entrepreneurs for access to response measures for the epidemic by COVID-19, 350 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs fiscal measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and 351 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensure access by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and individual entrepreneurs to public support created in response to the outbreak of COVID-19. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u190	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. The examination of the deliberation quorum was carried out in a timely fashion, with the presence of 163 Members at the time this verification was carried out, and we have quorum to proceed with the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No 212 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH) — I regret the death of the Luso-Brazilian writer Rubem Fonseca, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u191	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Rubem Fonseca died on April 15, at the age of 94. The Brazilian writer, son of Portuguese parents, natural of Trás-os-Montes, who emigrated to Brazil in the 20th century in search of better living conditions, suffered a heart attack at home, and ended up losing his life at the Samaritan Hospital, in Botafogo, in Rio de Janeiro. Born in Minas Gerais, Rubem Fonseca trained in law and worked as a police, a profession that ended up being the inspiring muse of his literary work. Considered one of the greatest names of the Brazilian literature of the 20th century, Rubem Fonseca translated into his books the naked reality of violence in the streets, having released his first book, The Prisoners, in 1963. The writer, who was also an argumentist, saw one of his most important books, Happy New Year, being censored for being considered an attack against the morals and good customs of the time. But that's not what kept him from writing. His literary work continued to synchronize in Brazil and to conquer more and more Portuguese readers, even having been thanked with the Camões Prize, the most important Portuguese literary trophy in the year 2003. at the age of 94, the heart of Rubem Fonseca did not resist and stopped, but its work will be remembered forever, either in Brazil or Portugal, where its roots are. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic pays its tribute to the memory of Rubem Fonseca, addressing its sense of sorrow to family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u192	Let us then vote on the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We still have the Vote Project No 213 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the NAP ) — regretting the death of actor Filipe Duarte, who will be read by Secretary Nelson Peralta.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u193	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Filipe Duarte died at the age of 46 on April 17, due to a myocardial infarction. Born in New Lisbon, Angola, on June 5, 1973, Filipe Duarte stood out as an actor and dobrator. in this sad hour, many witness and raise their excellence, character, kindness, smile, humility, generosity, solidarity and integrity. Philip Duarte began his career as an actor in theatre in the 1990s. He was also doubling, for example, Tarzan's voice in Disney's movie with the same name. He played a set of roles in TV series and novels in Portugal, Spain and Brazil, highlighting the roles he played in the series The Ferreirinha, in 2004, Ecuador, in 2008, El accident, in 2018, Matadero, in 2019, and Love of Mother, in 2020. In the cinema, Filipe Duarte participated in several Portuguese and foreign films, of which stand out Among the fingers, in 2008, The invisible life, in 2013, Grey and Black, in 2015, Variations, in 2019, and Mosquito, in 2020. Particularly striking was its participation in the film The other margin, in 2007, a film that exposes a set of prejudices that continue to exist in our society and where Ricardo played, a travetite that rediscovers the joy of living in the company of the nephew who suffers from Down syndrome. The roles he played in the cinema made the public recognize him as one of the greatest players in his generation and earned him a set of nine prizes, of which the award of the World Film Festival of Montreal for better actor, in 2007, a Golden Globe, in 2015, and three CinEuphoria awards for better actor, in 2010, 2017 and 2020. The life of Filipe Duarte was also marked by civic activism in the defence of animal rights, for example in 2012, one of the public figures that signed and publicly supported the petition ‘By a New Animal Protection Law in Portugal’, saying that until we were able to approve these basic laws we would always be smaller than what we could be. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Philip Duarte and expresses sympathy for his wife, his daughter, his family and his friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u194	Let us then vote on the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the draft votes we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now proceed to the other votes. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 26 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves an exceptional and transitional regime for the conclusion of debt regularisation agreements within the water and sewage sector. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We are now passing on to the Supplementary Screen I, to proceed to the vote on this bill in the specialty. We therefore vote points (a) and (b) and the body of Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL were adopted.]] We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add point ( c) to Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]] [[(c) an extraordinary scheme for the distribution of dividends and own capital remuneration of the management companies of multi-municipal systems;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u195	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a point ( d) to Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: (d) a special scheme on the effects of the 2020 rate of expenditure covered.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u196	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira, a member of the non-registered Member, amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Until 31 December 2020 or within a later period to be agreed in the event of proven difficulties, the user entities referred to in Article 2(1)(b) of Decree-Law No 5/2019 of 14 January 2020 may, in their current wording, regulate debts relating to the provision of water supply and water sanitation services for the period from 1 April to 31 August 2020 by concluding debt settlement agreements with the managing entities provided for in Article 2(1)(a) of that Decree until the overall limit of € 150 000 000.00.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u197	We shall vote on Article 2 ( 1 ). o Law No 26 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 2 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Without prejudice to the following paragraph, the amount of the Debt Regularisation Agreements concluded by each user under this Act may not exceed more than 50 % of the amount due to the provision of water supply and wastewater sanitation services for the period referred to in paragraph 1, and the remaining 50 % shall be wholly settled with the respective managing entity until the date of conclusion of the agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u198	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The amount of the Debt Regularisation Agreements concluded by each user under this Act may not exceed more than 50 % of the amount due to the provision of water supply and sewerage services for the period referred to in paragraph 1, and the remaining 50 % shall be fully liquidated, or phased forward within a later period to be agreed in case of proven difficulties, to the respective managing entity until the date of conclusion of the agreement.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u199	We shall vote on Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the IL.]] We move on to the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 2 ( 4 ). o of the bill. In accordance with the CFP's request, we shall vote separately on the two points. We therefore voted first of all on point (a) of this amendment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The amount of the Debt Regularisation Agreements concluded by each user under this Act may exceed by 20 percentage points the limit provided for in the previous paragraph, provided that: (a) the city's accession to the social tariff scheme provided for in Decree-Law No 147/2017 of 5 December 2017 in its current wording, or, in cases where such accession has already occurred, the application of the social tariff scheme to natural persons with a water service contract whose income from the respective family aggregate has, due to the epidemiological situation caused by the disease CVID-19, a fall of more than 20% of the income from the previous month's income or the same period of the preceding year;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u200	We shall now vote on point ( b ) of this proposal submitted by the NAP to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] [[(b) the implementation of a loss control plan and the development of a technical assessment of the implementation of mechanisms to ensure the reduction of water losses and the efficient use of water, including systems for the collection and reuse of rainwater.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u201	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by BE, adding Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The amount of the Debt Regularisation Agreements concluded by each user entity as defined in the previous paragraph is increased by 20% in case the municipal authority applies the automatic social tariff scheme as provided for in Decree-Law No 147/2017 of 5 December.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u202	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, who amends the body of Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CH were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — For the purposes of the previous numbers, until 31 August 2020: (a) municipalities shall notify the managing authority of their intention to conclude a Debt Regularisation Agreement under this Act, by written communication, accompanied by extract of the deliberations of their municipal chamber, indicating the estimated amount and the period of validity of the agreement to be concluded; (b) municipalized services, intermunicipalized services and municipal and intermunicipal undertakings within the water and sewage sector, shall notify the managing entity of its intention to conclude a Debt Regularisation Agreement, in accordance with this Law, by written communication, together with extract of deliberation of the respective executive body, indicating the estimated amount and the period of validity of the agreement to be concluded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u203	We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining rules of Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on Article 2 ( 7 ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the CH and the abstentions of the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to eliminate Article 2 ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP, votes against the PS and the NAP and abstentions to the CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Therefore Article 2 ( 8 ). that of the bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, amending Article 2 ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 9 — For user entities that conclude Debt Regularisation Agreements provided for in this Act, non-compliance with the early payment obligation of invoices and notes and debit issued by the managing authority relating to water supply and sewerage services during the period from 1 April to 31 August 2020 does not constitute an early expiry of the winning benefits of the Debt Regularisation Agreements on a date prior to the entry into force of this Law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u204	Let us now vote on Article 2 ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Distribution of dividends and remuneration of equity 1 — In 2020 dividends relating to the financial year 2019 are prohibited for companies in the public business sector managing multi-municipal water and sanitation systems. 2 — In the financial year 2020, it shall be suspended in the management companies of multi-municipal water and sanitation systems, the rule of compliance with the mandatory level of own capital remuneration, which shall be reduced to the Harmonised Consumer Price Index, reflecting the difference found in the corresponding tariff reduction to be applied in the current year. 3 — The Government shall issue guidelines within its direct or indirect participations in public partnership systems so that, in accordance with its partners, it shall adopt the procedures referred to in the previous paragraphs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u205	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 2. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: Article 2b Degree of recovery of expenditure In water and wastewater supply systems, whatever their nature, the level of recovery of expenditure verified in 2020, or their non-validation, are not impediments to access to Community financing or any other support for investment in the sector.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u206	I wonder if we can vote together on Articles 3. a is 4. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for them. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and IL abstained.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the Bill No 26 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves an exceptional and transitional regime for the conclusion of the Debt Regularisation Agreements within the water and sewage sector, with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]] We shall move on to the general vote on the Bill No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes and guarantees the responsiveness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the ENP.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the speciality of this bill. We begin by voting on the body of Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 1 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected and votes against PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(a) The first amendment to Law No 50/2018 of 16 August 2018, adopted by Law No. 50/2018 of 16 August 2013, adopted by Law No. 73/2018 of 3 September 2013, by Law No. 73/2013 of 3 September 2013, by Law No. 82-D/2014, adopted by Law No. 82-D/2014, by Law No. 82-D/2014, of 31 December 2015, 69/2015, of 16 December 2006, 69/2015, of 16 July 2006, 7 A/2016, of 30 March 2012, of 30 March, 42/2016, of 3 September 2015, of 28 March, 42/2016, of 28 March, 42/2016, of 28 March, of 28 March, of 28 March, 42/2016, of 28 September, of 28 December, 16 December, 11/51/2017, of 29 December, 11/51/2017, of 29 December and of 29 December, 16 December, 31/2015 of 29 December, 31/2015, and of 29 December, 16 December, 113/2017, 31/2015, and of 29 December, 16 December, 113/2015, and 29 December, and 29 December, and 29 December, and 31/2015, and 29 December, 16 December, and 29 December, 16 December, 14 December, and 31/2015, and 29 December, and 29 December, 16 December, and 31 and 31, and 31 December, and 29 December, and 31 December, and 29 December, and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31, and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31, and 31 and 31, and 31, and 31 December, 29 December, 29 December, 29 December, 16 December, 29 December, 29 December, 29 December, and 21 December, 29 December, and 31 and 31 and 31, and 31, and 31 and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31 December, 29 December, 29 December, 29 December, and 31 December, and 31 December, and 31 December, 29 December, and 31, and 31 and 31 and 31, and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31 and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 20, 20, and 31, and 31, and 31, and 20, and 31 December, and 20, and 20, and 20, and 20, and 20,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u207	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. -A of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 3 ( 1 ). the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: ‘1 — A 12-month moratorium on capital benefits to be made in 2020 pursuant to Article 19(1) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording, in conjunction with Article 19(5), is given to municipalities.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u208	We voted on the proposal by BE amending Article 3 ( 1 ). the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: ‘1 — A 12-month moratorium on capital benefits to be made in 2020 pursuant to Article 19(1) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording, in conjunction with Article 19(5), is given to municipalities.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u209	The vote on Article 3 ( 1 ) is therefore detrimental. the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 3 ( 2 ). the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It is as follows: ‘2 — The repayment of the loan guaranteed by the State through the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance pursuant to Article 19(2) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording shall be applied a 12-month moratorium on benefits to be awarded in 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u210	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 3 ( 2 ). the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP and the ENP were adopted.]] [[It is as follows: ‘2 — The repayment of the loan guaranteed by the State through the Directorate-General for Treasury and Finance pursuant to Article 19(2) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording shall be applied a 12-month moratorium on benefits to be awarded in 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u211	The vote on Article 3 ( 2 ) is detrimental. the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. We shall then vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 3 ( 3 ). the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP and abstentions from the PSD, the CH and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘3 — Capital benefits to be paid by municipalities in 2020 shall be deducted from the amount of remuneration provided for in Article 18(5) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording, unless otherwise stated by the municipality.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u212	The vote on Article 3 ( 3 ) is thus detrimental. the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. We move on to the proposal submitted by the PSD to add paragraph 4 to the same Article 3. the B of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘4 — To the value of capital benefits to be made by municipalities in 2020 in accordance with Article 19(1) of Law No 53/2014 of 25 August 2014 in its current wording, in conjunction with paragraph 5 of that Article, the expenditure duly proven with equipment, goods and services for combating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, carried out between 12 March and 30 June 2020, shall be deducted.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u213	The vote on Article 3 ( 1 ) shall follow. o-C of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We now vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 3 ( 2 ). o-C of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The application of the provisions in the previous paragraph determines the extension of the loan for the period of the moratorium.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u214	We then voted on the proposal by BE to amend Article 3 ( 2 ). o-C of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘2 — The application of the provisions in the previous paragraph determines the extension of the contractual periods of the loan for 12 months.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u215	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3 ( 2 ). o-C of Law No 4 - B / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of PS, PSD, PAN and IL, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote for the body of Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 2. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: Article 2a Amendment to Law No 6/2020 of 10 April Article 3 of Law No 6/2020 of 10 April in its current wording is replaced by the following: ‘Article 3 (...) — Without prejudice to Article 49(5), Article 50(2) and Article 55(4) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording, in exceptional situations, duly substantiated and directly related to unfavourable expenses associated with the fight against the pandemic of VOCID-19 disease, the municipal chambers and fregueries, in terms identical to those of municipalities, as regards the time limits of depreciation, may borrow without the need for authorization by the municipal assembly, the assembly of the freguesia or the plenary of electors, without prejudice to the subjection to ratification by these bodies as soon as the same bodies may assemble. 2 — (...).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u216	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 7. -A of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7a Budget entry of new expenditure The expenditure with equipment, goods and services associated with the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19 disease by local sector entities may be entered in the respective budget by means of a budgetary review, approved by the President of the Executive Body, without prejudice to the submission of ratification as soon as the deliberative body can gather.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u217	The vote on Article 7 shall follow. -A of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and CH.]] We move on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to replace Article 7. the B of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. Let's vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7b Information to the deliberative body 1 — Notwithstanding the possibility of failure to conduct sessions of the deliberative bodies, the duties of providing written information as provided for in Article 9(2)(e) and Article 25(2)(c), both of the Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 in its current wording shall remain, and the information thereof shall be referred to the deliberative body for knowledge, and its assessment shall be carried out as soon as the body concerned is able to gather. 2 — The session of the deliberative body to be held until 30 June shall include a point on the agenda for the examination of the information relating to acts carried out under Law No 6/2020 of 10 April.’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u218	Therefore, the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 7 is detrimental. the B of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. that of the proposed law, of the following content: « Duties for the provision of written information, which should take place in accordance with and for the purposes of Article 9(2)(e ). Article 25 ( 2 ) and ( c ). the Act No. 75 / 2013, of 12 September, in its current wording, can be carried out in a simplified way. Do not keep on seeking. ” The vote on Article 7 shall also be adversely affected. the B of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 7. the C of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It shall be as follows: ‘Article 7c (...) For the purposes of Article 76(2) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording, in 2020, consolidated accounts for the year 2019 shall be prepared and approved by the Executive Body in order to be submitted to the deliberative body by July 2020.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u219	The vote on Article 7 is detrimental. the C of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. We shall then vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 7. the D of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions of the PSD and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: ‘Article 7 D Information to the Directorate-General for Local Authorities The deadlines for providing information to the Directorate-General for Local Authorities provided for in Article 78 of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current draft, which have expired during the duration of the state of emergency decreed by the President of the Republic, shall be extended up to 60 working days after its termination, provided that it is compatible with the prior information, if it becomes effective on 30 July.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u220	The vote on Article 7 shall therefore be adversely affected. the D of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. o. We continue with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 7. o-DD to Law No 6 / 2020, of 10 April. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[‘Article 7 DD Report to ERSAR The deadlines for reporting to ERSAR - Regulatory Entity for Water and Waste Services, which have been overdue during the duration of the state of emergency decreed by the President of the Republic, shall be extended up to 60 working days after their termination, provided that they are compatible with the prior information, if it becomes effective on 30 July.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u221	We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 7. the E of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7e Dissolution of local companies The exercise of local companies for the year 2020 does not relate to the verification of the situations provided for in Article 62(1) of Law No 50/2012 of 31 August in its current wording.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u222	The vote on Article 7 shall follow. the E of Law No 6 / 2020 of 10 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 7. o-F to Law No 6 / 2020, of 10 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the PCP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7f Accounting report 1 — The President of the City Chamber shall draw up and forward to the Municipal Assembly, by 31 December 2020, an account report identifying the measures and expenditure carried out under this Act in an unbundled manner. 2 — The report referred to in the previous paragraph shall be the subject of public discussion in the municipal assembly and may, at the initiative of the president of the municipal chamber, accept the recommendations or suggestions made by the municipal assembly at that headquarters. 3 — After its public discussion, the report referred to in the previous issues shall be published in a municipal newspaper or bulletin and on the city’s website.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u223	We now vote on the proposal by the CFP to add Article 7. o-F to Law No 6 / 2020, of 10 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: ‘Article 7f Amendment to Decree-Law No 18/2008 of 29 January (Public Contracts Code) Article 113 of Decree-Law No 18/2008 of 29 January in its current wording is replaced by the following: ‘Article 113 Choice of invited entities 1 — (...). 2 — They may not be invited to submit proposals, to which the contracting authority has already awarded in the current economic year, following prior consultation or direct adjustment adopted in accordance with Article 19(c) and (d) and Article 20(1)(c) and (d), as appropriate, proposals for the conclusion of contracts whose cumulative contractual price is equal to or greater than the limits referred to in those paragraphs. 3 —.... 4 —.... 5 — (...).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u224	We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 3. o -A. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Amendment to Law No 50/2018 of 16 August Articles 3, 4 and 5 of Law No 50/2018 of 16 August 2018 in their current wording are replaced by the following: ‘Article 3 (...) 1 — (...). 2 — The provisions of the previous paragraph shall not prejudice the possibility of the transfer of competences to local authorities and inter-municipal authorities if it is possible to do so gradually until 1 January 2023, without prejudice to Article 40(4). 3 —.... Article 4 (...) 1 — (...). 2 — (...): (...); (...); Until 15 September 2020, local authorities and inter-municipal entities not seeking the transfer of competences in 2021 shall comply with the procedure referred to in point (a); until 30 June 2021, local authorities and inter-municipal entities not seeking the transfer of competences in 2022 shall comply with the procedure referred to in point (a). 3 — All powers provided for in this Law shall be deemed to be transferred to local authorities and inter-municipal entities by 1 January 2023, without prejudice to Article 40(4). 4 —.... Article 5 (...) 1 — (...). 2 —.... 3 — In the State budgets of 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022 and 2023, the amounts of the Decentralisation Financing Fund which incorporate the values to be transferred to local authorities and to the inter-municipal entities which finance the new competences. 4 —.... 5 — (...).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u225	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add an article 3. o -A to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] [[Article 3a Amendment to Law No 6/2020 of 10 April Article 4 of Law No 6/2020 of 10 April shall be amended by the following wording: ‘Article 4 (1) — (2) — (...) 3 — — — — 4 — Exceptionally, the bridging boards, without the possibility of delegation to their President, may participate in the provision of services and provide support to persons in situations of vulnerability in the same terms and conditions as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, and such acts shall be communicated to the chairman of the deliberative body, by electronic means, within 48 hours of their practice.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u226	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 3. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[Article 3b Amendment to Law No 51/2018 of 16 August Article 7 of Law No 51/2018 of 16 August 2018, in its current wording, is replaced by the following: ‘Article 7 (...) With the conclusion, in 2023, of the process of transfer of competence to local authorities and their financing, the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal authorities and the legal regime of local authorities, approved by Laws No 73/2013 of 3 September, and 75/2013 of 12 September respectively, shall be consolidated to promote territorial and social cohesion in order to increase the capacity of municipalities of municipal revenue gathering.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u227	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 3. o-C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, CH and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3c Amendment to Law No 51/2018 of 16 August Article 80b of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording is replaced by the following: ‘Article 80b (...) 1 — (...). 2 — Until 2023, the financial resources to be allocated to local authorities and inter-municipal entities for the pursuit of new powers are provided annually in the State Budget Act, pursuant to Article 5 of Law No 50/2018 of 16 August 2018 and are set out in the FFF, in accordance with Article 30a of this Law. 3 —.... 4 — (...).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u228	We shall vote for Article 4. (and annex) to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We now vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 27 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Promotes and guarantees the responsiveness of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We then generally vote for Law No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs tax measures and extends the threshold for the granting of guarantees under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the special vote on the Proposal for a Law No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ). We begin by voting on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add a new point ( b ) to Article 1. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the PSD abstention.]] It was as follows: Article 1. o (... ) This Act: (a) (...) (b) establishes the partial refund of the amount equivalent to the value added tax (VAT) supported by the private institutions of social solidarity and the Holy House of the Mercy of Lisbon VAT by the supply of electricity and natural gas; (c) (a) (a) (b) (d) (a) (c) above;
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u229	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 2 iii ) ( d ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] [[(iii) other establishments and health units of the private or social sector, provided that they are included in the national plan of the SNS to combat COVID-19, having for the effect contractualized with the Ministry of Health this obligation, or others, and identified on the list to be approved by the government members responsible for the fields of finance, health and work, solidarity and social security;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u230	We now vote on Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the PSD and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 The refund of VAT 50% of the value equivalent to VAT supported by electricity and natural gas supplies is returned to the private institutions of social solidarity and to the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon, in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No 84/2017 of 21 July.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u231	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to replace Article 3 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the NAP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] [[(a) medical devices and personal protective equipment identified in the Annex to Decree-Law No 14-E/2020 of 13 April;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u232	We now vote on Article 3 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add a new point ( b ) to Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(b) single-use gloves;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u233	We turn to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add a point ( c) to Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[(c) visors;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u234	We are now voting on the proposal by the NAP to amend Article 3 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: (b) Ethyl alcohol and skin disinfectant gel with the constant specifications of the government members responsible for economic, financial and health areas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u235	We then vote on Article 3 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote for the body of Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on Article 4 shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting together on Articles 5. it's 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 29 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs tax measures and extends the threshold for the granting of guarantees under the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate to say that everything is fine when the voting period is over, in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u236	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u237	Let me guess.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u238	Mr. President, I think everyone can guess. The PS requires the waiver of final drafting and also of the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies of Lein's Proposals 26, 27 and 29 / XIV / 1. a, that we just voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-30.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if there are any objections. [[Pause.]] Once there is no objection, it will be done. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday, 6 May, beginning at 3 p.m. In the first point, the Proposal for Law No 28 / XIV / 1 will be discussed in general. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims. The second point is the general discussion of Bill No. 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Statute of the Advocates'Order, revising the remuneration status of the Official Board of Auditors which integrates the respective Tax Council. At the third point, we will generally appreciate Bill No. 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers. The fourth point follows the discussion of draft resolution No 409 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure that children whose parents have lost income are not excluded from day care, protecting affected families and professionals. The fifth point is the general discussion of Bill No. 341 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Bans the distribution of dividends in banks, large companies and economic groups. At the sixth point, we will appreciate the Draft Resolution No. 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the « Emergency Check » for micro and small enterprises whose activity has been suspended. On the seventh point, the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 338 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Other Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary education. Finally, at the eighth point, the Resolution Project No 405 / XIV / 1 will be discussed. a (PV) — Information to citizens on best practices of waste disposal, such as masks and protective gloves. We are thus finishing our work today. I wish all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a good 1. May and a good weekend. See you Wednesday. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 35 minutes.]]
