ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. The session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 37 minutes.]] Let us start the work of our plenary meeting today. the first item on the agenda is the urgent debate required by the PSD under Article 72. The Rules of Procedure, on education. To open the debate, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u2	Mr President, Minister for Education, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr and Mr. Members: The PSD has scheduled for today an urgent debate with a single intention, to obtain from the Minister of Education and the Government the answers that Parliament and the country are demanding about the situation and the balance sheet of this first quarter of an atypical and difficult school year. Here are some of the many questions we have asked the Minister and the Government that remain unanswered: why is the platform for monitoring the epidemiological situation in school environment created by the Ministry of Education not fulfilling its role, i.e. reducing the tension, anxiety and fears of school communities, caused by the pandemic? Why does the country not have, objectively and transparently, as in France and Madeira, updated information on the number of closed schools, confined classes, confirmed cases of students, teachers or employees? Will students joining the risk group for COVID-19 have distance classes or will they continue to have only two hours of individualized support? Why can teachers with risk disease not provide distance support? How many teachers continue to put up and how many students are without classes for lack of a teacher? Does Mr Minister confirm that, since the beginning of the school year, more than 30,000 students have never had a single class, in one or more disciplines, for example Mathematics and Portuguese? How are they being recovered and what has been done to reverse the flattening of the learning curve? How many computers were delivered to the students? Mr Minister, does he confirm the complaints of the group directors that the government's promise to guarantee equal access to computer equipment is far from being met and that the programme will not include the renewal of completely obsolete school equipment, such was the de-investment over the past five years? Finally, what is the government's assessment of this first quarter, and what are its plans to solve the many problems with which schools are discussed, to mitigate their impact on learning processes, to prevent even deeper inequalities, ensuring that no one remains behind? All these questions would have been asked to Mr.Minister of Education if he had not exchanged a regiment hearing scheduled for last week for a visit to school works in Caminha. Or if he had had the courage to answer the ten questions which the honourable Members have asked him in writing over the past few months, and which remain unanswered. In the case of the PSD, Mr Minister answered only 19 of the 74 questions addressed to him. In fact, Mr President, if I may, at the end of my speech, I will send you the 55 questions still unanswered so that you can kindly remind the Minister of your obligations before Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u3	We hope that Mr.Minister's coming to this Chamber will allow him to answer these questions, unless he prefers to continue in the confinement to which he has been referred, not now, not since March, but almost since he took up his duties in the Government in 2015. It has been an absent Minister, fugitive, who appears to the public with intermittent, to make a few more announcements, a few promises, to challenge a hollow narrative, without direction and without strategy. On what really matters with regard to education, the Minister maintains a deafening silence. And when things are not going well, it disappears and sends the Secretary of State, who has served as a substitute minister. Whenever the news isn't good, the replacement disappears. And what went wrong this time? An international study, the TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) 2019, on the school performance of Portuguese students, which confirms, as had already happened with the 2018 PISA (Program for International Students Assessment ), what we feared most: the results returned seven positions compared to the one obtained in 2015. After sustained growth, the top of which was 13. the place, in 2015, the Portuguese students fell to 20. the position in 2019. The justification given by substitute Minister João Costa is that it is the fault of the previous government and the previous minister. at the end of five years, you have the opportunity to deny the evidence: in 2015, the Portuguese students obtained the best results ever; five years later, the backwardness is widespread. Don't you know what you've been doing these five years? You don't take any responsibility? Oh, my God! The government undoes virtually all the reforms it has found, removed the focus of teaching science and mathematics, ended with the curricular goals and examinations and consecrated the facilitation. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u4	The result is in sight. This is proof of the continuing failure of your policy. The state to which you have led the schools and the education system is regrettable, but more regrettable is the fact that you do not recognize it, that you insist on the permanent pass of the past. at the end of five years of governance, they continue to blame the previous government for your bad performance. It is no longer just intellectual dishonesty, it is an acute case of political irresponsibility. [[PSD applause.]] We are still in time to correct mistakes; it was enough for the country to have a minister and an education policy, or a Prime Minister who did not provide such coverage, support and even applaud this minister's dismissal and inaction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, exceptional situations require exceptional measures and a Minister to meet the challenges. Unfortunately, that's not the case. The narratives, announcements and promises about the strategic relevance of education to the future of the country are of little importance when the practices show otherwise. This government does not invest in school, this government does harm the school! This government does not value or credibility teachers, does not believe or care about students. And this government does not invest in the demand, quality, results. This government does not guarantee effective equal opportunities for the most fragile and less possessive, nor does it want to put the public school to the service of combating social inequalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u5	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why this government continues to undermine the future of our young people and thus compromise the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u7	And so began this urgent debate required by the PSD on education. The floor is now for an intervention by Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Luís Leite Ramos, the opportunity of this debate conceals the contradiction of the PSD, which raises the voice on the problems of public school, but systematically blocks solutions in Parliament. The solutions to improve the working conditions of teachers, to reduce the number of students per class, to support the displaced teachers, all this the PSD leads in Parliament, in addition to it must be very difficult to denounce consecutively the lack of teachers in schools, at the same time as Rui Rio says there are more teachers in schools. The truth is Rui Rio is wrong. There are no more teachers in schools. [[PSD protests.]] And the evidence is there, for everyone to see, and it's there as part of the 1st balance sheet. the period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u10	So let's make the balance sheet of 1. the period. The schools reopened and resisted the second wave of the pandemic without closing doors. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u11	We do not know the epidemiological balance — we do not know it because the government does not, or does not want to show it — but we know that this victory stems from the efforts of educational communities and the efforts of schools. This effort could have been alleviated if schools had more conditions to reduce the number of students per class, to hire employees in time, computers, the Internet, and to have enough teachers not only in schools, but also to accompany students who have to be at home. All this is part of the balance sheet of 1. the period. Minister, how many teachers are missing in schools right now? FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) says there are 30,000 students without classes. Mr. Minister does not confirm or lie, but if you want to lie, you have to say how many you are. How many students are out of school because of lack of teachers? This is not an occasional problem in an oily system, as Mr. Minister says. The Minister blames COVID-19, blames the casualties, blames the incomplete hours that teachers do not want to complete, but the temporary measures that the government is taking, at this time, to end the lack of teachers, are exactly the same as it took last year, because the problem already existed at that time. There are no more teachers and the problem is not punctual. Mr. Minister, like Rui Rio, is wrong. The problem is that the country lives better with the mistake of Rui Rio than with such a mistake of the Minister of Education. The National Council for Education (NCE) has left two alerts, which are also part of this balance sheet. He left a warning about the urgency of integrating teachers into the system, for which he is not prepared to change anything—at least he did not announce—and left a second warning on the number of non-teachers in public school, who have been decreasing over time. Minister, what is the net balance of non-teachers in school, paragraph 1. the period? We have also left a warning, Minister, this time of the Left Block, which corresponds to the concern of schools: we are not yet free from a third wave. What is the Ministry of Education doing to prepare the possibility of a third strike and to ensure that children, teachers and professionals return to school, after Christmas holidays, are safe? Will Mr. Minister implement the approved school testing program? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u12	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u13	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are at the end of 1. the period and I think it is appropriate to review the promises not fulfilled. Let's start with the promise of April 9, 2020, which was more or less like this : whatever happens, on the first day of class all students will have a computer. And from this promise by Mr Prime Minister today we have 100 000 computers in delivery process and perhaps the expectation of another 260 000 in 2. the period, which makes a total of 360 000 of 1 million. The universality, which had been promised by September 2020, remained on the way. And it also seems to be all right, because, after all, we now have the present classes and those who need the computer for being in isolation or quarantine also no longer do the opening pages of the newspapers and, therefore, it is no longer justified to continue with promises that even the PS bench considered inexhaustible. The second promise that we could speak of, Mr Minister, has to do with the promise of the replacement of teachers with speed, the very oily system that has already been mentioned here, that Mr Minister has spoken of. But the truth is that there are classes and there are disciplines that continue, at the end of 1. the period, without a teacher. I say in a clearer way: students who don't have teachers who teach them. Thus, there are already volunteers, many of them university professors from other points, not only from the country but even from outside the country, who offered themselves to accompany these students, in a partnership that the Ministry welcomed—and well— between the Portuguese Society of Mathematics and the guardianship. The Ministry has to deal with the issue of the ageing of teachers, which is in its program, which was in the Budget last year and which has then disappeared, and has to deal with the problem of the poor attractiveness of our schools to teachers, under the penalty of having students who do not have teachers who teach them systematically, increasingly in more and more disciplines, in more schools. Finally, Mr Minister, I refer to the promise of public school, which, through what is taught and what is learned, can change the horizon of the students' lives. This government has been honored by the Bloc and the PCP since 2016, and has been calling for a break with the education policy of the PSD government / CDS-PP. When confronted with the bad results of 2019, TIMSS, what does it say? It says that the policies of this government at the end of six years have not yet taken effect, because educational policies have a slow effect, and therefore these results still reflect right-wing policies. Now, Minister, of two, one: or six years have not been able to execute on the ground your public policies — yours, the Bloc and the CFP — and then they have failed; or they have achieved and the bad results presented, not by the opposition, but by TIMSS, an international body, prove that they have failed. Mr Minister, at the end of six years, you are the Minister for more time, with greater longevity in front of the education portfolio. Do you really think that the balance sheet of your mandate is extremely positive? He even considers that a generation of students who started 1. the year under his guardianship and ended the 4th. the year under their guardianship, who have learned less Mathematics and have not learned more Sciences, is a side cost of time that educational policies lead to effect? Do you consider this acceptable? Mr Minister, in good time we warned that ending the exams and announcing curricular reforms without realising them would lead schools to incorporate signals that would bring complicated results. The results are bad, they're here and you're responsible. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u14	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I only have one minute to speak, the liberal minute, I will only speak of the 2019 TIMSS, which leaves no room for doubt, Minister. The Portuguese students of the 4th. the year worsened sharply compared to 2015 and 2011, especially in Mathematics. We fell seven positions in Mathematics, and, in Science, we slid to 33. the position. As usual, the first PS reaction was to escape responsibility, because the concept of political responsibility continues to deteriorate with this government. In 2015, one of the first things PS and BE did was to end national examinations at the end of 1. the cycle and did not even replace them with measurement tests. Management thus broke with a multi-party commitment that came from 1999, which had begun, and indeed, by the Socialist Party itself. The management said 'no' to the tests, whose weight was little in the evaluation. He said ‘no’ to the measurement tests. He said "no" to the curricular goals, instructing schools not to meet them. He said "no" to the reinforcement in the study of Mathematics. He said 'no', it is worth recalling the freedom of choice of families by canceling the overwhelming majority of contracts of association with privates and forcing 30 000 students to go to other schools that they could not choose. But the management said "yes" to force students to get stuck at the school of their postal code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u16	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u17	I'm done now, Mr. President. ... said « yes» not to know what knowledge of students at the end of 4. the year and said "yes" to the leveling below. The results are in sight: with more money, more teachers and less crisis, the PS failed. The PS has failed, but those who pay the price are thousands of young people who will face the future less prepared and less able to rise in life. The PS continues to blow up the social elevator. The least you can do is assume your responsibilities. [[Congratulations from PSD Member Duarte Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u18	For an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Minister of Education has sought to call on you who is the success of 1. the period of this academic year. Now, we would like to recall that the indications of Mr. Minister's guidelines have come late to schools, have arrived in an unclear manner and, if we owe someone the success of this 1. the period is to educational communities. But we would like to remember that, within these educational communities, we have a group of professionals, teachers, who have taken an average of 16 years to stabilize their profession, still giving answers, over the course of this time, to those who are the permanent needs of schools. Recently, the National Education Council, in which it is its annual analysis, recalled that by 2030 more than half of the teachers will retire and that we clearly have the oldest teaching class in Europe. We do not see a rejuvenation plan on the part of the Ministry of Education. In fact, it is also seen that, in the examination for the recruitment of teaching staff for basic education, which will obviously be our future teachers, less than half of the vacancies have been filled, which is due to the fact that this is a profession devalued by the Ministry itself, to be a non-attractive profession. We would like to remember that in countries where this happens, that is, where there is a devaluation of the teaching class, public education, public school is weakened. We wanted to remember, because we live a very specific health context, which has not been given answers to education professionals belonging to risk groups. These professionals could be working remotely, they could even do something that the Minister of Education has spoken so much, which is to support the consolidation of learning, could finally perform their duties, since they want to work. They are people who are not sick, they are people who, only because they belong to a risk group, have been forced to lower, to use the bass, being prevented from working. With regard to the digital transition, in which it has been the health context in which we live, we remember that the Minister had said that this transition would be in place at the beginning of the academic year, but it was not, there was no digital transition. In November, we realized that, on the Ministry of Education's website, it was announced that the first equipment had begun to be distributed. However, according to the state of emergency report, only about 800 equipment has been distributed. By this floor, when are we actually going to have the digital transition in our schools? To conclude, at this first stage, I would also like to say that we know that, finally, in January, the Minister will meet with the representatives of the sector. We hope that the Minister will leave his pedestal and dialogue with these professionals, listening to the legitimate demands of this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u20	Pedestal, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u21	Mr Tiago Estêvão Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: In response to the pandemic, we have been called for the difficult balance between the right to education and the guarantee of public health. Therefore, today, at the moment of balance sheet, of 1. the period, it must be said that the bet in present education was a winning bet. And it would have been good, because fair, that the PSD would be able to recognize what is in the sight of everyone: it is that, despite all the difficulties, this 1. the period has to deserve a very positive assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u24	In fact, at the moment of a balance sheet, it is important to recall what Mr. President of the National Association of Grouping Directors of Public Schools reminded us of. It is that at the beginning of the school year, many said that schools would close from there to one month, but the truth is that not only did this not happen as once again educational communities were able to respond to the difficulties posed. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome this debate. And we welcome this debate for the opportunity not only to make this balance sheet, but also to talk about the vision of the future that we have, each and every one of us, for education. And the opportunity of this debate is so much greater when it occurs the day after the publication of the study on the state of education—a portrait of the country in 2019, about which, in fact, the PSD said nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u25	Nothing said! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u26	What this study tells us is that we have achieved the best results ever in some of the indicators, absolutely fundamental indicators, it tells us that we are close to meeting the European targets for 2020, that there is a consistent path to reducing school failure, that there are fewer young people who do not study or work and that there is a higher rate of completion of higher education, these that are frankly encouraging and that point us to a globally successful path.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u28	We know that it is not all done in education, but there are fundamental steps that have been taken and that we cannot ignore. Faced with this portrait of 2019, it is important to understand fundamentally whether the answers we have given are going to respond to these problems: if there is a need for more employees to hire, if we have made a way to strengthen the fight against inequalities, if we have faced the need to respond to investment in computer material. And the truth is that it is enough to look at the last two State budgets to remember the following: in 2020, we approved the proposal to review the portfolio of ratios ; in higher education, we assigned more scholarships, higher scholarships, lower tips ; in 2021, we approved the PCP proposals to strengthen the number of operational assistants in schools and the allocation of specific funds for the purchase of teaching materials for schools; or the distribution of computer materials, which we started this school year. Now, that is enough to realize that this course is correct, but basically what we are told is that there is effective coherence between what is our budgetary policy and what is the education policy that is followed. This is visible in investment in tutorials, in investment in the National School Success Promotion Program, in free school textbooks, in operational assistants, in psychology and guidance services. And it is unequivocal proof of reinforcement in a bet that no one stays behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the debate on the State budget, about a month ago, the Socialist Party reported that we had reached the lowest percentage of ever school dropout, that since 2015 we had reduced the school failure rate by about 30% and that since 1996 there were not so many students to enter higher education. None of these data were contested. That the PSD wants to discuss the Minister and not education is your option, but that adds very little to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u29	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two days after the end of 1. the period, we agree with the relevance of this urgency debate, scheduled by the PSD, to put questions that concern the school community today, to make a first balance of government action, but also to understand what the PSD would do. We have often heard that school is a safe place, that few were the cases of infection and transmission in schools and that the school community can rest. However, the numbers of elements of the school community infected by the VOCID-19 virus are challenged, without the government, which says of the digital transition, of online congresses, of the possibilities to inhabit the interior because telework can be done everywhere — less, of course, in localities that do not have hospitals, schools, public transport and that do not even have the Internet — agree to develop a platform where groupings or schools put the real numbers weekly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was necessary to return to school in a face-to-face manner, with all safety, with air rooms, with hygiene materials often, with spaces prepared so that students, the principal actors of the school, can know, learn, socialize and grow in a healthy way, respecting the protection measures that are required today. However, and despite the Minister of Education telling us that everything is all right and that the school is a safe space, we cannot ignore the lack of teachers and employees, that there are classes that have not yet been taught in certain disciplines, that there are still rooms without heating and without the possibility of opening windows to air. We must say that the profession of teacher has been so devalued over decades by PS, PSD and CDS that teachers today prefer to work in other areas because they are tired of "walking around with the house behind", of being precarious for 10 or 15 years, of not getting full hours and even getting hurt at social security discounts. It is up to the Ministry of Education to value careers, to value wages, to give working conditions, not to overload teachers with bureaucratic work. Just respect the teachers. But is the PSD today apologizing to teachers for preventing the accounting and payment of service time? For the school to continue to be a place of learning and insurance it is necessary to reduce the number of students per class, proposed, Mrs. Members, whom the ENP has still presented for days in the debate of the State budget and which the PSD has led. The school is also a body development space, which helps in the development of the mind. But, as the Greens had already reported, the school spas are places without ventilation, without space for it to be possible to respect the physical distance required. The pavilions serve three or four classes at the same time, concentrating many students in the same space. But today, physical education classes have become theoretical classes, video visualization, with students sitting without developing their motor functions. Until when, Minister, will students be deprived of moving, spending energy, developing motor agility? In addition, in many schools, students continue to be prevented from leaving the range or from using the recreation areas under appropriate conditions. Information and Communication Technologies classes continue, even in pandemic, to be spaces with few computers, which are often shared, by more than two students, not being able to meet physical distancement and promoting the sharing of keyboard or mouse. By what time, Minister, the renewal of the equipment? Finally, there is one thing we want to highlight here: that of the contribution the public school has to make to safeguard the mental health of many young people. In our view, it has not made the necessary contribution due to the lack of technicians. Here too, the PSD has fallen short of what would be needed. The Greens proposed hiring psychologists and the PSD did not vote favourably. As regards public school, the government has a bad grade, but the PSD also had a lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u31	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : The balance sheet the Minister of Education makes 1. the period of this school year is extremely positive— he said! To make a statement of these when school directors, but especially students and parents, despair with the lack of teachers, the balance sheet can only be extremely negative, such is the failure in the right to education for all without exception. The number of hours to fill more than you doubled to the previous school year. As in last year, there are students without classes in Mathematics, Portuguese, English, Geography since the beginning of the school year. They say it will be about 30,000 affected students who have done zero learning to these disciplines and I ask how it recovers from zero. Where is the right to education and equal opportunities? by making an extremely positive balance, the Minister of Education continues to deny the reality of what is happening in schools and deliberately misleads public opinion whenever they put the microphone in front of it. What lack of respect is this for our students, for their families, for Portuguese society? You speak, you announce, but you don't have numbers. You abhor accountability, you prefer the lack of transparency and turn the educational system into something into an intolerably opaque, tense, in the right way any totalitarian regime. In 10 years, about 60 000 teachers and educators will leave the educational system. You've been ruling for five years. What is being done to avoid lack of teachers? Nothing! Because 800 teachers missing last October do not pass — and I quote — « of specific needs». And he still says that the teacher placement system is well oiled! Imagine if I wasn't. Has there been any change in the teacher placement system since March? Don't! In time of pandemic, the urgent reinforcement of staff for cleaning, hygiene and follow-up of students takes a long time to appear, the current ones are exhausted and most work beyond their working hours. We don't know anything about the net balance of the operating assistants. You called into question the sustainability and viability of many artistic schools. Today, tens of schools and hundreds of students are still waiting for what is mandatory for a government to take care of. When do we have an additional contest? Mr. Minister fills his mouth with public school, with inclusion, with educational communities, but it's just talk. Fill your mouth with the public school of no advantage, such is the degradation of the quality of teaching and the consequent worsening of social inequalities as a result of your opaque, experimentalist and facilitator action. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u33	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister : The Government's response does not only give arguments to the PSD and the CDS and their successors to make the number of tearsy crocodiles. It is an empty space that is occupied, but it is not because of lack of a proposal, Minister, because for example at the level of the State budget for 2020, the CFP has put forward several proposals to solve the problems which would be extremely relevant and which, even, respond to what the PSD itself here says, that is, very serious problems. And it's very curious, because it's Schrödinger's PSD in relation to teachers, because now there's more, now there's less, and that's not understood. It is the same PSD that, when he was in government, he had in his hands the dispensation of thousands of workers, particularly teachers of public education. It is, in fact, very curious that the PSD today says that you are very concerned about this! But it's a serious problem, Minister. [[PSD protests.]] The CFP has been alerting for this situation over the years and consequently, in the discussion of the State budget, it presented proposals to combat the lack of teachers in public education. And we know that this problem can be greatly aggravated because 42,173 teachers can retire in the next 10 years, Minister, and by 2024 we will have less than 17,830 teachers. Therefore, Minister, what the CFP would like to ask you, since the Socialist Party, accompanied by its colleagues on the right,... [[PSD protests.]] ... did not want to approve the PCP proposal to combat the lack of teachers in public education, is the following: what will the Ministry of Education do concretely to ensure that there are more teachers teaching? It's that thousands of students continue on 1st. the period to have no classes, and this is unacceptable. Mr Minister, there is a very practical question on this subject: on the one hand, low wages; on the other hand, the question of incomplete schedules; and there is one that is so concrete that one does not realize how the government has not yet advanced, which has to do with the non-accounting of 30 working days for social security. This is one of the causes leading to the refusal by many teachers of incomplete hours, particularly in cases where incomplete hours are less than 16 hours of schooling. This is because the government is concerned that these teachers are part-time, and that is false. Incomplete hours are not part-time work. Even the courts were right to teachers in this regard, particularly Sintra's TAF (Administrative and Prosecutor's Court ) and the TAF de Braga and, Minister, we would like to know what will be done in this regard so as to ensure the accounting of this time for teachers with incomplete hours. Mr Minister, with regard to the proposal from the CFP, very practical, which was adopted in the context of the State budget for 2021, of strengthening the recruitment of workers to public school, particularly for 5000 non-teachers, it must be operated as quickly as possible so that these workers are in schools as quickly as possible. Therefore, knowing that this has already been approved, Minister, we would like to ask you what procedures the Government is taking to ensure that, at the beginning of the year, once the Budget enters into force, these workers are effectively in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u35	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems that the Communist Party and the Greens have fallen from Mars and that they have never approved any budget of this Minister who is sitting here today. But they have approved practically all the budgets that this government has brought here! Now, they appear here asking where the teachers are and where are the measures, when, in fact, they have approved all the budgets that the Socialist Government has brought here. What they should ask the Minister of Education is how he spoke in digital transition, and yesterday announced another 260 000 computers. Where were they at the beginning of the school year, when did you promise to have them? Where was it when yesterday the report of the National Council of Education came out saying that Portugal has older teachers and that this is one of the least attractive professions in Portugal, having the same socialist government said five years ago that it was going to make the profession a teacher in one of the most attractive? Mr Minister, I would like to ask you, finally, how does it say that there are 46 outbreaks in schools, when unions speak in 1000 schools with positive cases of COVID and hundreds of outbreaks in schools. How is it possible for your union partners to say that there are hundreds of COVID cases, more than 1000 schools with positive cases, and the government continues to pretend that this reality does not exist?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u37	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u38	But what remains of this debate is a Communist Party always handing over to the Socialist Party and coming here to Parliament asking where the teachers are and where their friends are. at least when the next Budget comes, they make decisions, they don't get here asking where they are, where they are, where they are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u39	Mrs Cláudia André of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Education : For now I would like to clarify that the PCP, the Left Block and the ENP are very concerned about the rights of the Members. Teachers, like us, PSD, we are. It happens that the proposals they have put forward really serve to excuse the concern, but one thing is certain: the CFP has already made six budgets for this government, so they are complicit in everything the government has done to the honourable Members. Teachers. Focusing on what brings us here today, contrary to what is stated by this government, the weaker students are being left behind. Those who are at risk and who stay at home are not guaranteed to follow up on the course; it may happen that in some schools it happens, but the fact is that the Ministry has never done anything to ensure that students at risk who have to stay at home have classes at the same time with their colleagues who are at school. The same happens to students in prophylactic isolation: those who have money and schools with technical means have online classes, but the vast majority of students do not have, have the follow-up of a teacher who spares time from their already overloaded hours. Because of lack of a teacher, hundreds of students remain 1. the classless period of Mathematics, Portuguese, Informatics or Geography. What is the answer the Ministry is planning for these students? Do they affect the learnings of the disciplines they did not have? Do you have a teacher who will reinforce the learnings that they didn't have? We don't know, and we don't know why the Ministry is slow to respond to all student problems, so slow to answer that the weaker students are left unanswered. These are the real ones who are affected by the fact that computers, promised in April, have not arrived; these are the real ones affected by schools have no technical means to provide them with lessons that can be interactive and interesting, as well as attractive; these are the ones who, by reducing all the facets only to make the statistics agree, are left without the knowledge that could later help them in their social elevator. PSD likes all students to have the same opportunity. The weaker students need a school that strengthens them and believes in their potential...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u41	Madam Member, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to make it clear that in the urgent debate there is no final minute for those who require the urgent debate. If you want to talk at the end of the day, you will have to stop your speech now, on the penalty of running out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u42	All right, then, I leave the questions for the end of the debate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u43	Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u44	Mr President, the way in which the right regards TIMSS reveals much about what the right is and its weaknesses. Let's see: Portugal participated in TIMSS for the first time in 1995. in this year the results of the 4. the year in Mathematics were almost the worst in the world and the worst in Europe. Then we took part again in 2011. in this year, we went from a negative heavy to a good positive, we went up 90 points. This is, between the last of the 10 years of governance of Cavaco Silva and the last year of governance of José Socrates, we went up 90 points. And that didn't happen by chance, because we invested, especially with the Action Plan for Mathematics, and it didn't happen because of the exams, because in those years we really progressed there were no such exams from the 4. the year, which do not exist in any civilized country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo yesterday missed the debate. We've been discussing this for about an hour and a half. You missed the debate, I didn't want to learn, and now you're here to talk. Study and spend more than the liberal minute talking about things. If we really focus on learning, what we need is solid steps forward. Compared with that 90 point jump in TIMSS between 1995 and 2011, why do we have this variation between 2011 and 2015 or between 2015 and 2019? It is a variation on a scale from zero to 20, corresponding to 18 or 14 cents. Compared to that great leap that we have achieved, you gentlemen, the PSD, and the right in general are limited; your ambition is the hundredths — it is very little. The PSD, in fact, has no ambition for education, it only has ambition for the political guerrilla. We need much more to have more and better education for all and not just for some. We need a work of persistence, a work of partnership and, as this pandemic has shown, we need everyone. We need parents, we need teachers, we need unions, we need school leaders, we need technicians. It is this work of hearing, of conciliation, of convergence...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u45	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u46	I conclude now, Mr President. That's what we need. The right one gets out of this job because he doesn't think about the future. I didn't say a word about the state of education report. Why? Because on thirty pages and such pages only they could read one, which says negative things, they could not read the rest, which marks our ambitious work for the future with all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u47	Mr. Education Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues has the floor now. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here in this House. Mr Luís Leite Ramos speaks of the urgency of discussing the urgency of education. The honourable Member has brought us here what happened between 2011 and 2015 and speaks of a time of cherubs, cherubs, seraphim and seraphim, and now only lucifers, of belzebus, among the cuckoos that exist around here working education! You can't see the urgency of the PSD and you can't even see the country's anxiety. That there is anxiety in the PSD for not seeing anxiety in the country that we all understand very well. It may seem urgent what happens, but with regard to what happens here, there seems to be only anxiety in the PPD/PSD parliamentary group of old, perhaps future leaders. As for what you accuse me of, I did not know, Mr, that you needed Mr. Deputy's permission to go to Viana - Mr. Deputy is from Vila Real. In fact, I went to Viana on Friday and the change of the parliamentary committee was on Tuesday... I will come here, as they determined at the beginning of the year, but I am also here today in this urgent debate. Regarding the answers to the questions of the PPD/PSD Parliamentary Group, something will happen, perhaps a fulanisation: in 1252 questions, more than 1000 were answered. And I'll be happy to respond — orally, in writing, in sync, online or in person. It's nice to meet you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, today I present myself here and it is of the most fundamental justice that the Minister of Education is here to say « brave! to schools, "beautiful! to their directors, "brave! to the teachers, "beautiful! to non-teachers, "brave! to the students and “beautiful! » also to their families,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because, even in this difficult context, they managed to build a safe space in each school, and in each educational community, above all, something that we suspected was difficult to happen: a space of confidence. The schools, educational communities, to whom I want to dedicate this intervention, to whom we should dedicate this debate, are confident. I've gone to schools, it's true, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. And they should also seek to know what is going on in schools, because the primary motivation of the PSD, by making this legislative agenda, was certainly not to discuss education, nor to discuss the same communities, nor what is happening. Basically, what they wanted was to surf a set of discontents and difficulties that always exist and will exist, especially at a time of pandemic. This is what the PSD has tried and tried so much, and since it is understood that the Portuguese do not perceive so much agitation in the parliamentary group. They wanted, let's say, to bill a dichot, to bring here a soundbite, who knows, and hopefully try a slogan. A slogan, which has already been said by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, may be what one of the school leaders said: we will try, among all, and also with the political-party effort of all, to have a 2. the period as we had the 1. o. That would be, after all, what we all wanted, because even in times of pandemic our school proved, once again, that the school did not change its way of being, although it had changed its way of being. Today, we are also showing the path that serves our school and our public school. We are well aware that this minister does not overlap with those who are guardians—in favour of the truth, we have already had those who wanted to be overreached, including by meddling, perhaps even exploding that ministry and everything we had there. What we have to do every day—and I would like to see the PPD/PSD do this—is to defend the public school from the attacks that are going on there disguised as a matter of concern and urgency. But no, what we see is a PPD / PSD, at the time of the speech of the incoming Member, to applaud, and that means that something exists and something is wrong in the « kingdom of Denmark »! [[PSD protests.]] The promiscuity we have followed here and, in a way, the way we have seen sponsored by the PSD, the rise of the Arrival we also see in education. [[PSD protests.]] I would like you to take part in some citizenship and development classes, because your iliteracy for health is so serious that it does not achieve what our children have already achieved: distinguishing from positive cases. So you bring here, like artillery, a set of data. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, honourable Member, literature for health, an important reference point for citizenship and development classes! I'm sure that when you come here more elucidated, once again the PPD/PSD will go back to arriving and you can applaud. But today this is a way to serve the country and therefore it is a five-year path of convergence with the European Union. The CNE yesterday told us that this path is much less abandonment than ever. It is also a way with more children in pre-school, exceeding, including, the time before they enter preschool and the time that they are in pre-school and that has led us to make all this path among all, with greater investment in education. That is what the PPD / PSD tries to disguise, in a way, when 100 000 computers are in our schools and 260 000 are coming, when the biggest digitalization and digital transition program is happening, also thanks to our schools. It is important to say that, above all, we work with our schools, it is not with rule and framework, it is not, in fact, with calculator, as an earlier author, now parliamentary leader, said that many could use. Who is this PSD that dares say that our teachers, our directors, families and students are laxists, they are facilitators and that they would deal with a set of measures that would call into question, including the future of their children?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u49	I ask you to conclude, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u50	So I wanted to leave a message here to the PPD / PSD: families don't let themselves be deceived; teachers don't let themselves be deceived; directors don't let themselves be deceived. They do not bring education into a discussion that education does not need. They help build it so that, effectively, the 2. o and 3. the periods can be as positive as this 1. the period. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u51	The Bureau records three requests for clarification, but the Minister no longer has time to answer, which does not mean that the speeches of the Members are not taking place. Members who were registered. Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The substantial reduction in the financing of artistic education is a sign of its devaluation. An additional contest was announced that would allow music schools to guarantee classes and students, but we arrived at the end of 1. the period without any glimpse of this contest. Music and dance schools have kept students, classes and teachers, but in January they will have to return to the schools of origin and fire teachers. These will have to integrate into classes with different disciplines, for which there is already a first evaluation, and will have to hire more teachers. This cut also has implications in the classes that are in the middle of the cycle. Are you aware of these problems caused by the courts? Tell us, Minister, whether or not you are going to open the additional invitation to tender. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u53	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u54	Mr President, Minister, the problem is that in the management of time you have intended to do so, once again, you have chosen to leave aside to win because you have not answered the legitimate doubts of the parliamentary groups, as is the case with the CFP Parliamentary Group, which has raised questions constructively and has already presented solutions, and there has not been a single word in the Minister's speech to answer the problems we have raised. So, Minister, what we want — and we really want — is the answer to the questions we have raised. How and how are the procedures for placing the 5000 non-teaching workers in public schools being streamlined as soon as possible at the beginning of the year, as soon as the State Budget enters into force? How and how will the government find solutions to ensure that there are teachers in sufficient numbers so that all students have teachers in all disciplines? There are thousands of students at this time who are still without a teacher, and this is unacceptable. Mr Minister, you do not understand that today, having had this opportunity to give clues on this matter, to say what was the plan, what were the arguments, the forms, everything was deeply blank. Let us hope, Mr Minister, that at the negotiating meeting, which was marked by the struggle on 7 January, these answers will not be left either to give or to keep this dialogue to deal with trade union structures.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u55	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u56	Mr President, the Minister has wasted his time to intervene without responding to any of the problems that occurred during 1. the school period and that will be extended throughout the school year. Let me make you two suggestions. First of all, I mean the follow-up of students at home. The study at home was very important while the classes were stopped, but at this time there are hearings close to zero. Students who are at home temporarily need to be accompanied by distance education and schools need teachers to be able to make such follow-up. Secondly, I mean the lack of teachers. There are 1100 hours below the national minimum wage. What Mr. Minister hopes is that there will be a precarcer that does hundreds of miles to be able to teach in an incomplete time, so he will receive less than the minimum wage, without having any support for his travel. That is why he hopes to solve the problems of the lack of teachers in public school. And, as someone who knows schools well, I will add another detail: if this teacher, who will fulfill an incomplete schedule, arrives at school after 8th will no longer receive the salary that month. And since you won't get the salary that month, you won't have to pay the room you had to rent to get to teach during that period. The system that Mr. Minister says he is well-fledged in the truth is only amended; it was based on the massive existence of unemployed people, of unemployed precarious teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u57	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u58	This system has to be revised, but if, however, it does not happen, at least recognizing the rights of teachers who fulfill incomplete hours would already help to solve the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u59	Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, it is unfortunate that the same country that thanks schools, teachers, directors, families cannot thank you for whatever it is, because in fact, the Minister has shown not only over the past few months, but throughout his term of office an indispensible independence. Mr Minister has not answered a single question! Neither the Block, nor the PCP, nor the Socialist Party, nor the PSD! The Minister was able to speak for six minutes and not say anything at all, apart from the usual bricks. Do you know what you remind me of, Minister? In my Meninice, there were some fair sellers who sold blankets and rugs and were hours and hours to entertain the clientele without saying anything at all. I don't know why, but the image that came to my head was exactly that! Do you think that this is the status, role, role of the Minister who has the role to solve the problems of education? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister is causing unqualifying damage to education in this country. Mr. Minister is transforming public school not into one that should be a means to combat inequalities, in a way to help those who have the least, the least and the most accurate, but to accentuate cleavage. Mr Minister continues to « push problems with the belly», « push with the belly» all that is important to do so that the country can recover from the delay it has accumulated and that is indeed a huge delay. The Minister has no respect for whom he is speaking and has called for this urgent debate. Minister, the country deserves more, schools deserve more and Parliament deserves more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u61	Mrs. Members, we have thus reached the end of this urgent debate on education required by the PSD. We will continue, with the second point of today's agenda, the assessment of the Draft Resolution No 771 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Saving the House of Alentejo. To present this initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic shook all sectors of society. Associative movement and Portuguese collectivities did not escape these beatings. The suspension of its sporting, cultural or recreational activities led to a huge reduction in revenue, while much of the expenditure remains, in particular, with workers, offices and inherent charges, questioning the survival of many of them. The service that these entities provide to the populations, whether in the small village or in the capital, is undeniable, being the very rich and very comprehensive expression of citizen participation. Today, the future of associations is dependent on an urgent and effective intervention by the Government in coordination with local authorities. Today, we speak of the House of Alentejo. The regionalist association Casa do Alentejo, founded in 1923, has since 1932 its headquarters in the magnificent Alverca Palace, in Lower Pombalina, where, in addition to a living space of the Alentejo diaspora, it develops a rich activity of representation and promotion of the Alentejo, disseminating its culture and heritage, giving voice and space to the most diverse artistic, cultural, economic and social expressions of this vast region. A true Embassy of the Alentejo. This House is also a landmark, in the visit of the city of Lisbon, for international tourism. The tourist attraction of Casa do Alentejo, which is at the level of many other landmark historical spaces of the capital, is due to three factors: the prestige and quality of the Alentejo gastronomy; the interest for the historical and cultural singularity of the Alentejo people, a factor that increased with the classification of the song by UNESCO, in 2014, as World Heritage ; and the wealth, architectural and artistic beauty of the Alverca Palace, classified as a monument of public interest in 2011. This urban palace, of early 17th century, built between two sections of the fernandina wall, arouses great curiosity. The Alverca Palace integrates a set of tiles of great chromatic richness of the Masters' Cycle of the 17th century, as well as a splendid tile decoration of the authorship of Jorge Colaço, which take special importance in the history of decorative arts in Portugal. As such, this palace, this authentic live museum of free access, needs constant care and maintenance and restoration interventions, being more a source of expenditure that is made with a great effort of the direction of the association Casa do Alentejo. It is also because of its importance that we bring this matter to the Assembly of the Republic today. It has happened that since March, with the COVID-19 pandemic, the revenues of Casa do Alentejo have decreased by about 84 %, mainly due to the breakdown of tourism and, with it, to the restoration activity. The Casa do Alentejo has, however, tried to maintain the activity, whether cultural or recreational, be the service of restoration and bar, always complying with the rules imposed by DGS ( Directorate-General of Health), but the recipes are far from necessary. On the basis of its social responsibilities, the association was obliged to use all available support mechanisms, including the layoff and the contraction of a loan of EUR 400,000, with the support of the state, to save the 32 current jobs, and these were 44 before the pandemic. The uncertainty of the future led the direction of Casa do Alentejo to consider it very difficult to prolong this situation beyond January. It is true that the City Hall of Lisbon decided yesterday an extraordinary support for the House of Alentejo — far from what is necessary — that, being an oxygen balloon, no doubt, is still insufficient. The draft resolution, presented by the Greens Ecological Party, which we are discussing today, aims to draw attention to the difficulties that associations and collectives are experiencing. In order not to witness the closure of a cultural space, a tourist space, a living space of the history and life of the associative movement also for the Alentejan culture, it is necessary for the Government, in conjunction with the municipalities, to ensure a viable financial solution, so that it is possible to keep the jobs and their activity in operation beyond the end of 2020. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u63	For an intervention, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u64	Good afternoon, Mr. President, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament. The House of Alentejo is an institution with almost a century of existence, which sees its future at risk and therefore came to ask the public institutions for help not to close. Located in Lower Lisbon, in a building classified as National Heritage, the House of Alentejo is one of the most emblematic spaces in the capital. It is presented, on its website, as an institution placed at the service of the Alentejos in general and, in particular, to those rooted in the city of Lisbon and the periphery, maintaining constant collaboration with the authorities of Lisbon and Setúbal and the authorities of the Alentejo. In its presentation page, it also assumes, as a priority of intervention, the dynamization, promotion and preservation of Alentejan culture. For this, it has a multipurpose cultural space, being animated by « a very intense cultural activity». The direction of the association is included in the discussion of current problems, promoting the organization of conferences, congresses and cultural manifestations, which are held periodically in the Alentejo, with a view to regional development, the improvement of the quality of life of the Alentejos and the preservation of their customs. In the almost 100 years of the history of Casa do Alentejo — which began to be called Grémio Alentejo — it is a newly born Republic, a dictatorship of nearly half a century, a revolution and democracy. But this story can be lost. The House of Alentejo fights for its survival and is afraid that it will only last until the end of the year, if there is no emergency intervention guaranteeing the financial support that the institution needs to meet the commitments it has made. Their subsistence is guaranteed by the revenues generated by the bar and the restaurant, but these have been insufficient to cover the expenses. Before the pandemic and the confinement, the restaurant, on a normal day, served about 300 meals a day. With the state of emergency decreed in mid-March, at the beginning of the pandemic situation in the country, the restaurant, the bar and the cultural activity of the association stopped. With the dedefinition, the prospect of resumption of activity was very much below what was intended and the situation was aggravated from August, with the new increase in infection cases. The restaurants and the rooms are in the flies. There are no tourists, there are no customers. The management says that nowadays, in the best days, they can serve about 15 to 20 meals. This difference caused a break in the order of 84 %. The losses amount to between EUR 18 and EUR 20 thousand per month and the monthly expenditure remains in the order of EUR 50 thousand. This situation is increasingly difficult and endangers 32 jobs and payment to suppliers. To deal with this crisis in the Casa do Alentejo, a proposal was approved at the meeting of the City Council of Lisbon, signed by the Director of Education and Social Rights Manuel Grilo, which guarantees the allocation of 187 thousand euros of the Social Emergency Fund of the City Council of Lisbon. However, this amount, while necessary, remains insufficient and cannot cover the needs. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to find solutions for this emblematic cultural and recreational association to survive. Unfortunately, Casa do Alentejo is only one among thousands of examples of commercial establishments and restaurants in a desperate situation. Since the beginning of the pandemic they have already closed 111 stores in Baixa de Lisboa. This situation results from a series of wrong decisions that have made that area of the city exclusively dedicated to tourism—in it concentrated - hotels, hostels, Airbnb, restaurants and shops—, but there is no diversification of economic activity that can guarantee the survival of public institutions and services in that area. Other areas of Lisbon, less dependent on tourism, have been surviving. What is important is to find a robust answer that allows the survival of the House of Alentejo. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u65	Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Casa do Alentejo, founded in 1923, based on the Rue das Portas de Santo Antão, in Baixa de Lisboa, is a cultural and regional association that contributes to the dissemination, study, defense and appreciation of the Alentejan culture throughout the Metropolitan Area of Lisboa. By promoting the tourism of the region, disseminating the song, music and dance, collaborating in the launch of books, organizing exhibitions, meetings and various manifestations of cultural and regional character, Casa do Alentejo has contributed decisively to the development of relations with the Alentejo residents in the metropolitan area, deepening its roots and connection with its territory of origin, being considered by many as the Embassy of Alentejo in the capital of the country. Casa do Alentejo is a cultural reference of the city of Lisbon, being a partner of great importance in the tourist response in that area of the city and where you can enjoy excellent Alentejan gastronomy. The building where it is located, one of the most interesting in Lisbon, is the old Alverca Palace, built in the late 17th century, next to one of the main entrances of the old city. The House of Alentejo has played an extraordinary role in the preservation and restoration of this property classified as a monument of public interest, replacing other entities in the financing of the various interventions carried out over the past few years and applying there very significant part of its annual budgets. The recipes that support the activity of Casa do Alentejo, and especially the restoration of the property and its valuable filling, are largely achieved by the results of the restoration. The pandemic had impacts on all sectors of society, but restoration is undoubtedly one of the most affected sectors. in this case, with the aggravating response given by Casa do Alentejo to be addressed to large groups, which regularly rented out about four hundred seats in the two salons. Thus, over the past few months, the Casa do Alentejo has seen its revenues in the area of restoration suffer breaks which, according to the direction, reached 84 % for the same period in 2019. Despite the support provided by the Government, the House of Alentejo resorted to the simplified layoff regime and a bank loan of EUR 400 thousand, with the support of the State. These support has helped, but have proved insufficient for the House of Alentejo to ensure the commitments inherent in its regular activity, ensure the maintenance of 32 jobs and continue to ensure the preservation of the palace. It is, therefore, of the greatest justice to recognize the effort in preserving a heritage that is also a tourist point of greatest importance in the low lisboa and in maintaining a high quality gastronomic response that the Casa do Alentejo has offered to national and international tourists and that has greatly contributed to the dynamization of that area of the city. Recognizing this reality and assuming that because of the crisis, the House of Alentejo suffered a decrease in its capacity to respond and a serious reduction in its annual revenue, the City Council of Lisbon decided at its meeting yesterday to give the House of Alentejo extraordinary support of 187 000 euros under its Social Emergency Fund. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes this positive response to the candidature presented by the direction of the House of Alentejo. Good news is also the recommendation adopted unanimously within the framework of the 2nd. a and 7. the Permanent Committees of the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, in the direction of the culture and the hairline of the economy and innovation contribute and collaborate with the Casa do Alentejo, either in the area of restoration, or in the recovery and maintenance of the palace. After this very much support from the municipality of Lisboa, it is essential that there is a positive response from the Alentejo municipalities with regular support for the activity of Casa do Alentejo, particularly in the dynamization, promotion and preservation of Alentejo culture. In the recent visit to Casa do Alentejo and in the contacts maintained with the direction of the association, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and, in particular, the eight Members elected by the Alentejo electoral circles also expressed their full willingness to cooperate with the association, in order to find ways to overcome the difficulties and to raise awareness among the authorities for closer and effective collaboration. The way forward may be — and should — be through greater participation of all the Alentejo municipalities, the Alentejo Regional Coordination and Development Commission, Alentejo Tourism and other entities and companies in Alentejo. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not forget the relevant history of the House of Alentejo and will do everything to keep this witness of our land and our traditions alive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u67	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Casa do Alentejo is an unmistakable structure of the city of Lisbon and fundamental to the association movement of the city and its cultural, recreational, social and even political life. This institution places Alentejo and its traditions in the heart of the city, acting as a true embassy of the region in the capital. It is an aggregate point of the Alentejan community and, from the historical and monumental point of view, has its relevance and expression. The Alverca Palace, where the Casa do Alentejo is located, still assumes a key role in a tourism that does not abdicate its genuineness in exchange for greater profitability. at this time, the restrictions imposed by the health crisis put at risk the existence of this historical institution of the city of Lisbon, which, of course, requires from the Government a set of measures that, in conjunction with the City Hall of Lisbon, guarantee the survival of the House of Alentejo. Despite the support already mentioned here, given by the City Council itself of Lisbon, it is insufficient to meet the needs, and there is also a need for a structural vision for the resumption and preservation of historic houses, whether in our city of Lisbon or throughout the country. If saving the House of Alentejo is important, we must not forget that this is not the only structure or institution with historical relevance that is at stake here, due to the socio-economic crisis that followed the health crisis. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why, in this context, it is also important to save other realities, such as, for example, the Maria Vitória Theatre, which, a few metres from the Casa do Alentejo, sees its end at the glance, after many years of hard struggle. To let Maria Vitória die is to let the professional and regular magazine theater die in Portugal. We also have the case of Café Majestic, a historic café in the intellectual and cultural life of the city of Porto that the health crisis closed doors and put in a very delicate situation. In the outside country there are several cinemas, cinemas, theatres, theatre groups or cultural and regional spaces that are currently in limbo between their end and their survival, with the real risk of the already insufficient cultural fabric diminishing or disappearing in many areas of the country. That is why integrated action is needed to save all these entities and institutions. After the apathy of some when mass tourism has decharacterized our cities, we cannot now let the few genuine institutions of our cities disappear and thus lose a very important fabric of our country. In the State budget for 2021, we put forward proposals that were in some way aimed at supporting these institutions. Unfortunately, they were plummeted. And in a crisis context like the one we are living in, they could in fact benefit the commercial part of the House of Alentejo, which was unfortunately distant. For example, I speak of the extraordinary support to the treasury in the context of COVID-19, which aimed to support these institutions. Having not been able to achieve these support, with an expression in the life of these entities, which would prevent its end, of course we will follow this ENP initiative, which is already a step towards not letting the House of Alentejo fall. We hope, briefly, that there will be a measure so that other institutions in our country will not be allowed to fall.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u69	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating Mrs Mariana Silva on the initiative the Greens bring here with regard to Casa do Alentejo. We have heard here the description of this institution: it is a practically centenary House—from here to three years ago 100 years ago—and it has an important role in the affirmation of Alentejo itself, whether in its heritage aspect, whether in its cultural aspect, or in its gastronomic aspect, which is also relevant, being based in a beautiful palace of Lisbon, in Lower Pombalina. Therefore, we can no longer agree that the activity of the House of Alentejo translates itself into an embassy of the Alentejo. In fact, the motto of the House of Alentejo is as follows: « A People, a Culture, a Region». It is this statement by the House of Alentejo that it is important to underline and support, and that, even yesterday, the House of Lisbon has made the allocation of support. In fact, the Municipal Assembly had already done so, through a recommendation. And today, from what is perceived here by the different interventions, there is a broad consensus for this institution to be supported. Mrs Mariana Silva pointed out, in her speech, that the example of Casa do Alentejo is the example of other entities, recreational, sports and cultural associations that are living very difficult times. That is why this is the moment when the central government and the authorities have to articulate to not let these entities die, which not only affirm culture and our identity, as they represent, in many cases, jobs. In relation to the House of Alentejo, we are talking about 32 employees, which is a relevant factor for social intervention. The pandemic, unfortunately, brought this bad news to many entities, which led to the paralysis of activities that generated recipes and now cannot generate. As we understand, by the intervention of the Greens and by the Municipal Assembly itself, in which this was underlined, these entities are indebted. We often talk about the indebtedness of companies, but now we also talk about the indebtedness of associations, along with the indebtedness of families. And this should make us stop, think and reflect on what path we are following and what country we are leaving for tomorrow, especially for the next generations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u71	You have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: For now, I begin by thanking the Greens initiative, which obviously the PSD is accompanying. This misfortune that has fallen upon us has already taken us all, has taken us so much, and we risk taking us our heritage and all our treasures. And I would like to underline the following: the PSD has alerted the Minister of Culture to what is happening, and this is very, very, very serious. This is very, very serious and both the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Economic Affairs must have the notion that the support given to businesses must have equity, that is to say, treat differently what is different and treat equally what is equal. Culture and cultural heritage must have criteria of increase, a bonus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u74	This example is great to explain exactly what we mean to see if the Minister of Culture really listens to us. It is as follows: the House of Alentejo brings together two types of heritage, the material architectural heritage and the intangible heritage. Only this is a value in itself. The fact of merging two types of heritage into a building is a value in itself. If people have difficulty understanding what cultural heritage is, associations should have a breast when they are over 50 years old and a whole lane when they approach 100.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u76	The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Culture must understand this. They cannot be running, pairing passu, with all other entities and with all other companies. So, traveling in this building, when we enter the House of Alentejo, based in the Alverca Palace, we discovered, as already said here, that it is from the 17th century and that it has an austere facade that reveals an incredible surprise for those who enter there: we have all Lisbon bohemian of the 20s, Charleston, of the introduction of cocaine, of much more sinister things, of a completely bizarre world. It is this 17th century surprise for the beginning of the 20th century and the Lisbon bohemian we discovered when we visited that object. And then, when we're inside, the intangible heritage we're talking about is Alentejo's gastronomy, which is objectively and without room for discussion, one of the best in the world. Question: how do we have this incredible palace, with two kinds of styles, with a contradiction that tourists themselves discover, with this gastronomy in there, and we have to bring this problem to Parliament? This should have been safeguarded by now, should have been assured by now, should have deserved the attention of our Minister of Culture, and we will draw attention again. It has happened with Maria Vitória, already happened with Politeama, is happening with all our treasures, the treasures of our capital. On the day that we are reopening the doors to tourism, these institutions must exist. Therefore, summarizing and concluding that tourism is worth 10 % of the European Union's GDP, I would like to appeal to the Minister of Culture, who is not here, but I hope he will listen to us, that of these 10 %, 40 % are due to institutions such as House of Alentejo. People visit and there is tourism in Europe because of institutions such as Casa do Alentejo, which combine material and immaterial heritage and which have been able to merge for almost 100 years, in the same space, these two realities. I could also talk about George Steiner, the idea of European culture, the idea of coffees, the idea that Europe is not another part of the world, and these institutions are strengthening it. The Casa do Alentejo is an incredible example of merging what was the madness of the 20s across Europe with what was Lisbon pre-pockaline and the gastronomy of the interior of the country. If they are not sensitive to these numbers, if they are not sensitive to GDP and if they are not sensitive to European culture and this cultural concept, I want to appeal to everyone who is listening to me to go to the House of Alentejo if it has never been. That, in fact, is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u78	To the people who are listening to my speech, in this room, or out of it, wherever it is, I would like to say that, if they don't know the House of Alentejo, they still don't know Lisbon, they don't know our culture. And if, after going into this space, they do not realize that there is an urgent need for criteria to improve cultural heritage in support of companies, as we have been saying to the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Economics, even if they do not understand this, very honestly, dear friends and dear friends, Dear Members, dear Members of Parliament, Mr President, then they did not realize anything. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u79	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the fact that I have been a member of the House of Alentejo for a good ten years will not force me to make a declaration of any particular interest, because what we are dealing with is in fact the collective interest. Allow me to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who go to Casa do Alentejo and look at its walls will not be able to see what is most important, because its value is, above all, in the civic, social and cultural work that was done from that building, with the projection of culture, traditions, practices of Alentejo and its populations, with the testimony of the history of a regionalist association that has passed through several periods of national life, some of them particularly complex. That space never ceased to host all those who, from the civic, political, cultural and social point of view, sought to fight for a country with more progress, fairer and more developed, from the reality of Alentejo and the reality experienced by its peoples. The contribution that the Casa do Alentejo has made over the decades to the appreciation of Alentejo's heritage and culture has, in fact, an intangible value, which cannot be achieved only by looking, but which is recorded throughout its history, in an undeniable way and in a logic of experience, by all, of that space and culture that is projected there. Of course, there is also a relevant element in the House of Alentejo and in the work done there. It is the contribution that the House of Alentejo and, in particular, its directions, over the last few decades, since 25 April, have been given to the experience of the city of Lisbon and to the appreciation of its built heritage, with an intervention in that building—as mentioned in several interventions—with a view to preserving it, its recovery and even its classification, which only makes the work there even more prestigious. It has been a remarkable work from the point of view of the restoration of the building and of what must truly be the objective of the heritage recovery, which is the perspective of the recovery of the building so that it can be lived and enjoyed by all. More: the opening that the Casa do Alentejo has given to the most diverse activities, of a social, cultural, sporting and even political nature, reflects precisely this healthy perspective, which is to value, to recover and value the built heritage. Unfortunately, the difficulties that Casa do Alentejo is facing today reflect the difficulties that thousands of associations, cultural associations, recreation, sport and small and medium-sized enterprises are experiencing as a result of the economic and social impacts of the epidemic and the measures to combat it. We could say that the origin of the economic difficulties that Casa do Alentejo is experiencing today is not beyond the difficulties that many of these thousands of entities who, from an economic or social or cultural point of view, have in activities such as restoring their financial support or financial support for their most diverse activities. There is indeed a need to give an answer which, I would say, must be ensured in three dimensions. On the one hand, an emergency response to save the House of Alentejo, save the institution as such. On the other hand, an emergency intervention that safeguards civic, cultural and recreational activity, which risks disappearing not only in the House of Alentejo but in the lives of thousands of other associations and collectives in the country, so that from the younger to the older, the cultural, sporting and civic practice does not disappear as a result of the epidemic. Finally, the need for intervention to find solutions to support the development of the activities of regionalist associations, associations and collectives of culture, recreation and sport, in order to maintain and develop their activity, which is truly structuring the social, cultural, recreational and sporting fabric of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u81	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u82	I conclude, Mr. President. There are some measures included in the 2021 budget which may, where appropriate, respond to certain difficulties, particularly measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to support treasury and to support the payment of wages. Let us hope that there will be another contribution directly to the difficulties that are being overcome by the House of Alentejo. We do not fail to welcome and value the Greens Ecological Party initiative, which, of course, we follow, because it is a contribution that can be made to this objective. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u83	To close this point, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u84	Mr. President: I can not fail to appreciate the consensus demonstrated by all parties regarding this project, particularly as regards its opportunity and currentity, because it is really important to support the Casa do Alentejo association, maintain jobs and preserve the cultural heritage there. The Greens do not ignore the support announced yesterday by the City Hall of Lisbon to the House of Alentejo, which will help to settle the debt, the fruit of the pandemic, and allow to continue the good work done so far. However, we cannot ignore the baldness that this and other structures have passed this year and that this support has emerged only a few days from the end of 2020, coincidentally on the eve of the discussion of this draft resolution. But what has become clear today is that, without exceptional and immediate government measures, many historical collections can be lost in this complex year, and that we cannot accept. It is a network with millions of associates and tens of thousands of leaders and, in many cases, are the only elements of local initiative. Let us remember that some of these institutions are still or have been armed with attempts to clear historic headquarters, as a result of changes to the lease legislation promoted by the former PSD / CDS government, something that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u86	Thus, we conclude the discussion of the Draft Resolution No. 771 / XIV / 2. a, to be voted on in due course. We pass on to the assessment of Petition No 642 / XIII / 4. a ( Fernando Maria Rodrigues Martins et al.) — They request the amendment of the legislation relating to the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, together with, in general, the Bills No. 521 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Change the regime of the solidarity complement for the elderly, making it dependent on their allocation of the poverty situation of the elderly rather than on the income of the children and ensuring the convergence of the reference value with the poverty threshold, 567 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions of allocation of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and 583/IV/2. a ( ENP) — Conditions of allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly ( amendment to Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by saying hello to APRE! ( Association of Pensioners and Reformers ), its leadership and its president, who is present in this debate, and above all all all all the thousands of petitioners who brought to this Parliament the theme of the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI). This social benefit, which has existed since 2006, has been a fundamental tool in combating poverty among the elderly, a poverty that results to a large extent from very low pensions, which in turn result from a pattern of low wages, poor contribution careers and the fact that there are so many women in our country—are mainly the beneficiaries of the CIS — whose work in the field, informal work, domestic work or care work does not count on their contribution career. It is no coincidence that of the 161 622 beneficiaries of the CIS in November 2020 more than 70 % are women last month. Moreover, if there were no social transfers, poverty among the elderly, which is now around 18 %, would be more than 50 %, which shows how fundamental the social state is. Despite the importance of a benefit such as that of the social complement for the elderly, who suffered severe cuts between 2011 and 2015 — cuts that we have not forgotten and that occurred during the PSD and CDS government — and, despite, since 2016, if it has gradually increased the value of the CIS, today, it is not only very short of the needs as even of the very objective with which it was created, first of all by the reference value. If the solidarity complement for the elderly was created to remove people from a poverty situation, it makes no sense that their value is so low on the poverty threshold. In fact, to have access to CSI, a pensioner alone cannot receive more than 5258, 30 € per year, which corresponds to a retirement pension of €375 per month. By current rules, all pensioners who receive a reform above this value remain outside the CIS. The CIS should have as its reference value the poverty threshold, but it is far below this threshold today, with about €65 difference between the monthly CSI reference value and the poverty threshold. This means that those who receive the CIS remain, despite receiving, in a situation of poverty, and it is to correct this situation that we present today this bill. Secondly, the condition of resources of the ISC has rules of exclusion which, in addition to unfairness, are an attack on the independence and autonomy of older people, by continuing to demand for some beneficiaries the inclusion of income of children, regardless of the elderly do not live with their children or even their close relationship with them. It is true that an agreement with the State Budget Block for 2020 has already allowed the income of the children from accounting for the income of the elderly to the CIS to be eliminated in the second and third stages of this year. Since older people are not under guardianship, it is important that children's income from the calculation of the income of the elderly for the allocation of the ISC should be definitively withdrawn, as this is an exclusion rule that creates unacceptable constraints. By following, therefore, the objectives, arguments and proposals of this petition launched by APRE! , the objective of the left block bill is to correct these injustices, making, on the one hand, automatically converge the CSI reference value with that of the poverty threshold and, on the other hand, definitively eliminating the reference to the income of children of the resource condition of the CSI. We're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that these two matters can be approved by this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u88	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by congratulating the signatories of this petition, the president of the APRE! , here present in its representation, and to welcome the fact that they have brought the discussion a topic on the dignity of pensioners, pensioners and elderly people, who, very clearly, call for the amendment of the current legislation on the complement of solidarity for the elderly, so that the condition of resources takes into account only the incomes of the applicant and their spouse, excluding all incomes from the remaining family aggregate. It is precisely in this sense that the bill presented by the PCP is going. We understand, as we have already stated in the past, that the inclusion of children's tax income as a criterion for access to this benefit disrespects the autonomy and dignity of the elderly and, from the outset, means the exclusion of thousands of elderly persons from access to this benefit. We know that changes have recently been made to the allocation of this benefit with regard to the consideration of child income, particularly in Decree-Law No 94 / 2020, but what the CFP advocates is that this criterion is repealed by the law and that no changes are made based on income scales. We therefore propose that the income of children should not be considered for the allocation of this benefit, regardless of the scale in which they are located. Considering the need to improve the conditions for the allocation of CSI, the CFP also proposes the allocation of the solidarity supplement for the elderly for a period of 14 months; the elimination of the standard penalizing the couples of the elderly, ensuring the individual allocation of the benefit in their full amount; and the right of prior hearing of the elderly in situations of suspension of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. Without prejudice to structural substantive measures that are important in combating poverty—from then on, a fairer distribution of income, with the value of wages, particularly the national minimum wage, because this will also allow higher pensions in the future, as well as a strong investment in public services, which ensures equal access for all, regardless of the level of income, but also the fight against poverty between the pensioners and the elderly, with the annual valuation of pensions, ensuring the effective exploitation of purchasing power and the improvement of their living conditions—, we always advocate the valorization of social benefits and support, under the non-contributory social security regime, in order to meet the rights of the pensioners, pensioners and the elderly in situations of economic shortage and at risk of poverty. Under the social benefits of the non-contributory social security scheme, the solidarity complement for the elderly can and should be an important tool for combating poverty, and the CFP has already presented a number of proposals in the past to improve this social benefit. Today we insist on this need, which is even more pressing in view of the moment in which we live, the increase in situations of poverty and the need to ensure the social protection of those in situations of greater fragility, such as the pensioners, the elderly and pensioners. It is time to strengthen and improve the conditions of allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly, a battle from which we do not give up, and therefore together with the petition submitted, the CFP brings a bill of law the discussion that improves the conditions of allocation of this benefit and also reinforces the social protection of the pensioners, pensioners and elderly who need it. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u90	To present the ENP bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The indicators of poverty in Portugal show the need to correct the asymmetries of income that exist among citizens, a situation that ultimately penalises the elderly in a particular way. The reality in our country is, unfortunately, still far from being able to guarantee dignified living conditions for all the elderly, finding a considerable part in a shortage and even poverty. In fact, it is precisely in the group of older people, aged 65 or older, who continue to see the situations of more severe poverty and where the levels of deprivation resulting from the lack of resources are higher. thus, for the Greens Ecological Party, it is obvious that effective and targeted measures are needed to improve the quality of life of people in this age group who are in a situation of greater fragility and vulnerability. in this context, we cannot ignore the fact that there are many pensioners whose pensions have very low values, a situation that must also be reversed. The solidarity complement for the elderly, created by Decree-Law No. 232/2005 of 29 December, represented an important step and continues to be a fundamental instrument in combating the poverty of the elderly, taking into account the situation of people of this age group in Portugal. As we know, the solidarity complement for the elderly is subject to a set of conditions to be met by the applicant, which can even be justified as a way to measure the degree of need in which the elderly person is. However, one of the rules is to consider, in addition to the income of the applicant and his or her spouse, the income of the child or child, even if they do not live with the elderly beneficiary of the support. It is true that the law establishes that children are obliged to provide food to their descendants in accordance with Article 2009. the Civil Code, which determines that the descendants are linked to the provision of food, it is important to bear in mind that the extension of this rule to the solidarity complement for the elderly is unfair and represents a real attack on the autonomy of the elderly, leaving thousands of elderly outside this important support. In view of the above, regardless of the need for further measures to combat poverty and improve the living conditions of the elderly, the Greens Ecological Party today brings to the discussion this bill, which aims to improve the allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly, in particular taking into account only the incomes of the applicant and his or her spouse for the purpose of granting such support. This is the most important amendment proposed by the Greens in order to improve the quality of life of these people and to promote social justice. We believe that this is an important contribution to promoting conditions of equal access to all citizens, regardless of their income and, above all, regardless of the income of their families. On the other hand, this legislative initiative which The Greens are presenting today seeks to meet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that has motivated this agenda, which alerts the inclusion of children's incomes for the purpose of allocating the solidarity complement for the elderly to be not only unfair but also an attack on the elderly's right of independence. Finally, I would like, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the thousands of petitioners for bringing us to discussion a matter as important as the need to give more justice in the allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u92	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners, who are accompanying us today, for the mobilization around this issue, which is of the most fundamental justice not only intergenerational but also for the people who have given so much to our society. This introduction is being made, and taking into account the initiatives presented, there is a aspect of the scale of this crisis which, in some way, has been exacerbated by a problem which was already structural in our country. I refer to the ageing of the population, which has been one of the most significant social transformations of the 21st century, with transversal implications to all sectors of society, from the labour and financial market to the quality of life of the populations, to the search for goods and services, such as housing, passing through areas such as transport, mobility, social protection, family structures and intergenerational links. Around the world, and Portugal is not foreign to this phenomenon, the population aged 60 or more is growing faster than all the younger age groups, and in 2017 it was already 13% of the global population. Furthermore, estimates of entities such as the United Nations indicate that the number of elderly over the age of 60 can double up to 2050 and triple up to 2100. Only in Europe is a quarter of the population aged 60 or older, and Portugal does not run away from this trend. The numbers that point not only to the tendency of population aging, which has been registered in our country, are well known, as they still warn of a population loss due to the decrease in the number of births. Although older people can and should be seen, increasingly, as development contributors, have delayed effective measures so that their competences can be more interconnected with transversal policies and programmes. Worse than this age, there is a decline in State social support for this population, and what happens is that these people are often driven to poverty or material deprivation, which is absolutely unacceptable. In order for a paradigmatic change to take place in the way we treat and integrate the oldest in our society, particularly with the forecast to reduce the number of young people in the coming decades, many countries, including Portugal, will face strong fiscal pressures and policies in the field of public health systems, providence and social protection for the population with the most advanced age group. However, there is a debate that we have not done, there is a debate for which we have already warned many times here and which has to do with the sustainability of social security itself, to which Portugal cannot escape, along with what these legislative initiatives bring us today, which aim not to consider the incomes of the family in the allocation of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. We know that, often given the hardness of life that leads, from the economic and social circumstances, from the circumstances in which communities live, among other factors, the Portuguese elderly live particularly dramatic situations, either of loneliness or of extreme poverty, situations that we cannot accept for those who have already contributed so much. Today, we see many of these people without knowing how to pay for what to eat, what to wear, the drugs they need to take care of. What future does Portugal have to offer them? That is why, of course, we will follow the initiatives that are on the table today, with the challenge of making a more in-depth reflection of what we should give these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u94	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, of course, the President of the APRE! , here present. The petition and part of the content of the legislative initiatives we are discussing here make an analysis that is relevant on the criterion of access to this social benefit and on whether the income of children should or should not count for the assessment of this condition of resources and access to social benefits. It happens that in the State budget for 2020, the year in which we are, Article 133. the, which was introduced by a proposal for an amendment submitted by the Socialist Party, states that, and I quote, « During 2020, the Government will evaluate the rules for the allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly (... ) », in particular the question of the income of the children in the assessment of the applicant's resources. Therefore, this is not the first time we have discussed matters relating to social support which are provided for in previous State budgets, particularly in the State budget for this year. Certainly, it will not be considered that this issue has been raised only to fulfil the timetable or to meet conditions for the support of the Government by the left parties. We really believe that it is to realize support for the elderly. We ask: where is this assessment provided for in the Budget? Where are the conclusions of this assessment, so that we can strictly legislate? We cannot continue to have initiatives in the State budgets — in this case, introduced by the Socialist Party's own Parliamentary Group and approved — which are not followed up. It can't be! This is a lack of respect for all those who are targeted, in a positive sense, for each of these measures. And we're not just saying this. from our point of view, this reflection is very important. We will enable these initiatives because we understand that, often in the overwhelming majority of cases, the incomes of children distort the financial reality of their parents, just by withdrawing the possibility of receiving this supplement to the elderly who most need it, since the income of children is not accessible to them, as it is good to understand. Still, there are other important measures. at a time when we will enable left-wing parties initiatives on this matter, I remember that the CDS presented a very important initiative, in the last State budget, which did not have the mutual attention and care of the left-wing parties, the so-called "vale pharmacies". This is because support for medicines is currently very low, since it covers only part of the beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. As we know, medicines occupy a very significant percentage of the expenditure of older people, and it is therefore essential to adopt an initiative, such as the CDS presented in the State Budget, so that medicines are out of the budget restriction of the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u96	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Joaquina Matos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners who went to this House to accompany us in the discussion of these projects. The initiatives under discussion — draft laws of the CFP, the EPO and the ENP — call for changes in legislation relating to the solidarity complement for the elderly, in particular by proposing the elimination of the impact of the child's income on the assessment of the resources of the applicant. in this same sense, it entered the Assembly of the Republic, on 5 July 2019 — and had a hearing —, Petition No 642 / XIII / 4. a, which collected 4627 signatures, being the first subscriber the citizen Fernando Rodrigues Martins, whom we greet. The bills, in addition to other proposals to change the legislation, promote the increase in the reference value of the solidarity complement for the elderly: in the case of BE, 6014 €, converging the reference value with that of the poverty threshold; in the case of the PCP, 5902 €. The proponents, all of them, consider that the solidarity complement for the elderly is an important social benefit in combating the poverty of the elderly population. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I remember that the Socialist Party, in the XVII Constitutional Government, complies with Article 72. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in 2005, brought about the creation of the solidarity complement for the elderly, implemented in Decree-Law No 232 / 2005 of 29 December, and regulated by Regulation Decree No 3 / 26 of 6 February, in which it refers that, and I quote, "(...) among the population in situations of poverty, is precisely in the group of the elderly (65 years or more)..."................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This was the principle of creating the solidarity complement for the elderly. This new social benefit, intended for pensioners with very low resources, resident in national territory, has been central to reducing the poverty of the elderly population. In March 2011, for example, they benefited from the measure 235 000 pensioners, but in 2015 it benefited 165 000 pensioners, due to the cut-off of the reference value promoted by the then PSD Government / CDS-PP. The Socialist Party, in the previous government, from 2015 to 2019, reversed this cut and advanced in the implementation of the elderly income improvement policy, with the measure of the extraordinary increase in lower pensions, as will happen next January with an extraordinary increase of €10 of all pensions up to €658. Today, the number of pensioners who benefit from the ISC is 162 000, because many of the citizens were below the reference value, given the increase in their pensions. From 2015 to 2020, the reference value rose by 7 %, plus 350 € per year, i.e. increased from €4909 to €5259, and it is our objective, until the end of the legislature, that this value reaches the value of the poverty threshold. In 2018, the extension of the ISC to pensioners who, regardless of age, were penalized in their early reforms during the CDS-PP government — the so-called "damaged Mota Soares". Now, in 2020, it was extended to 2. o is 3. the steps to eliminate the impact of income of children or descendants. This is Decree-Law No 94 / 2020 of 3 November, which is another step in strengthening the allocation of this support. The solidarity complement for the elderly was created by a Government of the Socialist Party 15 years ago. It remains alive and is recognized as a strong social measure, along the long way to go in guaranteeing dignified conditions for all. Continue the real value-added trajectory of lower-level pensioners'incomes, in particular by restoring the value of reference to the poverty threshold, in strengthening the effectiveness of this measure is the very precise objective of this legislation, implementing all measures in a gradual and sustainable manner. This is our commitment, in which we are committed, hoping that the remaining political forces, particularly the proposers, will accompany us in order to achieve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u98	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the subscribers of the petition under discussion, some of which are present here, which brings a broad set of concerns with the supplementary solidarity for the elderly, signaling the need for existing legislation to be changed, so that the condition of resources takes into account only the incomes of the applicant, excluding all the incomes of the children, claim, this, which is also accompanied by the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, according to initiatives under discussion today. The PSD recognizes the importance of complementing solidarity for the elderly as one of the most effective tools for combating poverty among the older population, insofar as it guarantees social minimums for a segment of the population which, in its majority, is in a situation of great economic and social vulnerability and dependence. In fact, this complement distinguishes itself from the other benefits because it introduces social justice principles based on more restrictive access requirements, namely proof of the condition of resources which it considers an extended income range, because it not only considers pensioners' incomes, but also their family and children's incomes. I recall that at the time of the creation of this social benefit in 2005 the differentiation of the solidarity complement for the elderly, through consideration of the effects of family solidarity on the overall resources of the elderly, was considered just and necessary because it was intended to consider differently what is different, allowing to channel more resources for the elderly most in need, especially the elderly isolated and without family support. Despite this consideration, we believe that respect for human dignity, which is imposed on any developed society, demands not only to recognize the right to life, but also to recognize the right to have the minimum necessary to live above the threshold of poverty. This is a mission that the State cannot de-responsibility and, on the contrary, must fully assume its responsibilities. Here it is important to remember what has already been said this afternoon: the State Budget for 2020 prior to its Article 133. the, which the Government, during 2020, should evaluate the rules for the allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly with a view to, inter alia, extending up to 3. the scale of income the elimination of the impact of children's incomes on the assessment of the applicant's resources. In compliance with this device, the Decree-Law No 94 / 2020 was published last November, which implemented precisely this amendment to the solidarity complement for the elderly. This is therefore an extremely important issue that deserves serious and wider discussion, because the protection of older people is really strengthened only if it is implemented on a global level. Only in this way can we effectively combat the situations of poverty, ill-treatment, abandonment, isolation and discrimination of those who have given everything and today live at the mercy of a society that does not always treat them with the dignity deserved. However, since the topic being discussed today is the solidarity complement for the elderly, we look at the statistical data of social security in relation to this provision. The solidarity complement for the elderly has been retreating for months: there are almost 4000 beneficiaries in October 2020 than in the same period. in a situation of serious economic and social crisis such as the one we live today, associated with the phenomenon of progressive and irreversible ageing of the population, this decrease is incomprehensible and therefore deserves an explanation by the Government. We want to understand why this benefit is not reaching the people who need it. Does this progressive reduction in the number of beneficiaries involve difficulties in access to social security services or is it due to the lack of answers and inability of that service? It is of no use to improve the conditions for the allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly if this provision does not reach the one most accurate from it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u100	You have the floor for a new speech, Mr José Soeiro, from BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two questions that arise and on which I would like to ask the Socialist Party directly. It was possible to remove the children from consideration of the income of some of the steps. There is no reason, in particular 4. the step, which is the remaining one, to maintain the consideration of the income of children, if we agree that this is a way of limiting the autonomy and dignity of the elderly. So I wanted to leave the challenge to the Socialist Party so that we can do this elimination now, resulting in the demand for APRE! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Secondly, the convergence between the CSI reference value and the poverty threshold value results from the CSI's own philosophy when it was created in 2006. It is a counter-poverty benefit. It doesn't make sense that by 2020 and by 2021 there are people who are beneficiaries of a poverty-fighting provision that remain in a poverty situation. The Socialist Party says that it has a rhythm difference with us, because there is a commitment in the Government's programme to bring the value of the CIS gradually to the value of the poverty threshold. All right! But we need to do that now, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We are going through a crisis, this is the time to make this amendment, which has a very small budgetary impact and which should now be done! This is not just about — and I insist on this and I conclude — a difference in pace. It is a question of whether the law itself should not have a norm that would permanently link the CSI's reference value to the value of the poverty threshold, because we are always making changes that imply absolute value in the law, rather than enshrine the principle, we will always have this problem, either with this government or with future governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u102	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the challenge we face is to recover the original philosophy of the CIS and introduce into the law a standard that permanently links it to the threshold of poverty, a challenge that we leave to the Socialist Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u104	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave a few comments at the end of this discussion, starting with saying that today we still have a reality of low pensions in our country. Low pensions leading to poverty situations of pensioners, pensioners and elderly people, low pensions resulting from practices, over decades, low wages—and this is also a problem that we have to solve because of the value of wages, including the national minimum wage, as the CFP has advocated and proposed. at the same time, there are situations of social emergency, of poverty among the elderly who need to be addressed and, without prejudice to the necessary appreciation of the pensions that the PCP has also defended and proposed, while, of course, valuing the advances we have achieved, it is necessary that the solidarity complement for the elderly is effectively a provision to combat poverty among all the elderly. We therefore propose and insist that consideration of children's income should be eliminated for the allocation of this benefit, because this continues to exclude, even with the amendments made in the Decree-Law that the PS Government published in November, thousands of elderly people from access to this benefit. at the same time, the consideration of these incomes constitutes an attack on the dignity and autonomy of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly, who, moreover, create incomes that do not exist in practice, because they are not part of the income with which the elderly can count every day for their expenses and the cost of living, including food, household expenses or medication—there are still several situations in which the elderly have to choose between buying medication, buying food or paying the household accounts. Mr João Almeida spoke of the CDS proposal. I would like to recall the proposal presented by the CFP in the State Budget, free of charge for all those over 65 years of age and also for families in a situation of economic shortage, which the PS, PSD and CDS voted against. They voted against this proposal presented by the CFP in the last State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u106	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u107	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. What we understand is that the income of children should not be considered in the allocation of the ISC. We insist on this proposal and understand that this is an opportunity to take a step forward in improving this social benefit. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u108	Let us now move to the fourth point of our order of business, which is from the assessment of Petition No 12 / XIV / 1. a ( José Manuel Rodrigues de Oliveira et al.) — Legal age of reform of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector at age 55, together with the Resolution Project No 659 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the activity of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the activity, ensuring the safety and health conditions at work and access to adequate reform to the wear of the profession. To present the draft resolution, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, the Left Block Parliamentary Group wishes to welcome the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions on the initiative of the petition we are discussing today and also all workers in this sector. The Left Block has long been warning for the growing number of professions and workers who, for various reasons, have begun fighting and launched alerts for the conditions in which they work in Portugal. It is not by chance that more and more professions, of different sectors of activity, have requested, through petitions or other forms, the recognition of their profession as a quick wear. Work rhythms have accelerated, working hours are increasingly longer, working conditions are worsened and extreme conditions of certain professions are not taken into account. In the specific case that we analyze with this petition and with this project, the characteristics of the organization and performance of work in the transport and communications sector have a strong impact on the health of workers. These characteristics go through shifts or scales, daytime work, but also nighttime, variable times and long working time, underground work, but also in height, with long stays in vehicles subject to vibrations, subjects, also, weather, subject to pressure from public exposure, repetitive tasks and work overload. Therefore, it is easy to find that these working conditions often manifest themselves through musculoskeletal diseases, kidney problems, hearing, vision, stress problems, anxiety, depression or daytime sleepiness. The conclusions that have been drawn from a large number of scientific studies that relate to shiftwork and nightwork with serious health problems are not new and should warn this Parliament. In fact, it is not by chance that these issues have been increasingly raised in the Assembly of the Republic — particularly problems related to rapid wear occupations or also projects under discussion, such as those of the Left Block in the Committee on Labour, very relevant, on the subject of shiftwork. We are also not entirely different from the debate in this House on the rapidly worn-out professions, because invariably any attempt to propose that the government take up a given profession receives the vote against and invariably all parties say they are very concerned about the situation, but they make it impossible for the answers that workers need. More recently, there was the discussion of a CDS proposal to make a working group for the legal regulation of the rapidly worn-out professions, which, however, we repeat again what we said at the time - it is very short and objectively not to respond to the emergencies experienced every day by too many workers and their families. The government says it continues to study and evaluate, but the years go by and tens of professions and thousands of workers remain without any answer to their claims and real health problems. We therefore believe that this House cannot continue to ignore these situations and should take more concrete positions on the subject, and in this particular case we are talking about the workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, who also deserve this answer. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u110	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we have now discussed but also the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions, who have promoted and dynamized it and who, through this important instrument of our democracy, brings us a matter of greater importance, especially when we talk about labour issues. They require petitioners who, in the face of the circumstances guiding their professional activity, are to be established a special regime of retirement age for workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector at age 55. The circumstances or characteristics of the organization and the performance of its work are clear in the text supporting that petition. In fact, the performance of work in the transport and communications sector, as the petitioners say, has a strong impact on workers' health, which is manifested through musculoskeletal diseases, kidney problems, hearing and vision problems, stress, anxiety, depression and daytime sleepiness. We are talking about problems that arise mainly from the fact that the activity of these professionals is developed through shiftwork, scales, daytime and nighttime, with variable times and long working time, with long stays in vehicles subject to constant vibrations, weather, pressure of public exposure, repetitive tasks and workloads. Now, the very characteristics of the performance of this activity must even have impacts on the health of these workers. Moreover, these impacts are confirmed by the conclusions of all scientific studies that relate to shiftwork and night work with serious health problems, which originate in neurophysiological disorders, and which recommend or suggest the need for better conditions in work activity, not only to safeguard the health of these professionals, but also to prevent the continued endangerment of the safety of people and goods. Without prejudice to other measures that need to be taken in a more comprehensive perspective, in particular the strengthening of collective bargaining and more protective labour legislation for workers, especially those working in shifts or at night hours, the Greens share the concerns and objectives of the petitioners in order to regulate the activities of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, a regulation that will necessarily have to go through the reduction of wear resulting from this activity, the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work and access to adequate reform to rapid wear. Therefore, we will also vote in favour of the proposal of the Left Block, whose discussion was scheduled with this petition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u112	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I begin by welcoming the petitioners who are here today and by addressing our compliments to the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions, especially because of their exercise of democracy in directing this petition to the Assembly of the Republic for the rights of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector. In fact, they bring us a fair claim for a special regime of the legal age of reform for these professionals, taking into account the harsh conditions in which this activity takes place, which we have heard of here today. We are talking about an activity performed in height, subsole, air and above water, highlighting also the overload of the work itself, shiftwork and nightwork. All these conditions bring serious consequences to the health of these professionals, ranging from muscle diseases to kidney problems, hearing and vision, mental diseases or daytime sleepiness, which changes work by shifts. Given the consequences, wear and impact that this activity has on the lives of these workers, it is the most basic justice to follow their demands. That is why it is not because of the NAP that the recognition of this penosity will not occur, because we will vote in favour of the initiative brought to this debate. However, and despite this, we cannot fail to remember that there are many professions in a situation similar to that of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, whose professionals have been demanding us for years to act, and therefore any solution should seek to ensure justice for all these professions. For this reason, for the NAP, the solution must undergo an assessment with a cross-sectional logic, by means of a working group that may change the legal framework of the rapidly worn-out professions, the definition of criteria for the allocation of this qualification and, moreover, the identification of an exemplary list of professions that can be classified as such. Despite this profound and structural change, of course, we follow not only the concerns of the petitioners but also the scope of the initiative which is discussed together with the petition. Thus, being also a proposal for the NAP under discussion and vote today, it is up to the parties to decide whether they want to resolve this problem more deeply, structurally and cross-cuttingly, without discriminating any profession, or whether they want to continue to postpone the resolution of these problems, which has long been required. Of course, we will also follow the other initiatives, for their basic justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u114	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome FECTRANS and all the workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sectors, who put to this House the indisputable issue of the age of reform, from the very beginning of time in the face of penosity and wear that so often mark whole working lives, in a sector whose reality has specificities and concrete situations that cannot be ignored. over the years, the conditions and problems that are felt by these workers were aggravated: privatization, liberalization, subcontracting, precariousness, attack on rights and collective bargaining, time deregulation and systematic overload, all this meant a heavy burden also for workers' own health. The CFP has been intervening, over the years, with the fight and proposal, in a consistent and determined way, so that the laws and policies in this country defend the rights and dignity and the lives of those who work, whether in the exercise of the profession, or in the transition to reform. We proposed a guarantee that the rotation of the shifts would be in respect for rest and time to live, considering the weekends and days followed without strikes. We proposed safeguarding the right to leave the shiftwork system and move on to the day-to-day regime without loss of rights and remuneration after 20 years of work. We have proposed the recognition of an anticipation of the retirement age for those who work in shifts, due to the wear and penosity of this work regime, as well as a bonus in the calculation of the pension value. We proposed setting the rule of transition to reform without penalties, after 40 years of discounts. We have proposed the replacement of the age limit for the driving of heavy vehicles in the transport of passengers and goods, which the PS Government has increased to the top in a revision of the Road Code. All of these PCP proposals were aimed at the convergence of the custom in labour legislation: PS, PSD and CDS have systematically plunged these measures, as well as the proposal, which we have been defending for years and years, the diversification of sources of social security financing. They are materials that are totally current and that are at stake as a central issue of our time. We are not condemned for this supposed inevitability of an over-exploration that is aggravated and eternal. When some proclaim unappealable sentences of working up to 72 years, it must be stated that there has to be another way and model of development. Workers are not disposable parts nor can they be treated as such. More: the age of the reform is neither an alibi for exploitation, such as those who accept as inevitable or even natural that the work is increasingly difficult, dangerous, worn out or unhealthy, because then the worker gets reformed earlier. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! You cannot crush workers with conditions, working rhythms and inhuman schedules, destroy their health, their quality of life and then whatever luck you want. It is necessary to ensure that, in all areas of the operation of undertakings — and undertakings in the transport, communications and telecommunications sectors, in particular — the conditions and working rhythms, working hours, working hours and rest periods are defined with other criteria, not as a result of budgetary restrictions or maximum profit strategies, but as a result of full respect for the health and life of those working there and in the consideration of the quality and safety of essential public services, which cannot be compromised by the degraded and precarious conditions that are so often imposed on workers, far beyond the specific operational needs. If there is a lesson and teaching that we should withdraw from 2020, from the pandemic crisis and its impacts, it is for those who doubt the evidence of the centrality of work and workers. Workers in the transport and communications sectors have set an example in mobilisation, organization and action, in defence of rights and dignity, but also in defence of national interest. We appreciate the FECTRANS initiative and we want to welcome here the struggle of workers, a decisive and irreplaceable factor in the construction of change. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that, in a few minutes, for 17 hours and 15 minutes, the system will be opened for the verification of the quorum of deliberation, and so it will be possible to register at that time. For an intervention, Mrs Rita Madeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a common point to say that people are the largest asset in a country, in a company, in an organization, but that is, in fact, the truth. Without people, without workers, there is no work, there is no economy, there is no wealth, there is no state. Therefore, the Socialist Party has always guided its work in accordance with the principles of safeguarding and respecting the rights and interests of workers and, both in this House and in the Government, has always been committed to defending and strengthening those rights. To value workers' rights is to value employment, to value work, to value economic policy, to value social policies and also to value and greet the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions and the 7646 citizens who signed the petition on changing the legal age of reform of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector for 55 years. We had the opportunity to hear some of these workers and to understand their motivations, their fears, their efforts not to lower their arms to do more and better for them, for them and for businesses. This is also what we do here: despite our differences, together we struggle for better working conditions for all. Fixing workers, combating precariousness, which continues to be so sharp among young people, regulating the labour market in a balanced and modernizing way and combating certain practices that can harm the individual life projects of workers I think are common desires for all in this House. These are also the concerns of the Government, translated into the budgets we have adopted here, as well as the development of active employment policies, the qualification of workers and the fight against unemployment and precariousness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Supporting, helping, responding, protecting those who need the most, supporting employment, supporting incomes, wagering, coupled with the qualification of workers and company innovation, but also strengthening the public social security system by reconciling it with its sustainability, have been the struggles of this government. Unfortunately, we live an extraordinary year for the negative. We must not forget, therefore, all the sacrifices that companies and workers have made and have gone through, but we must also not forget all the measures that the Socialist Party Government has implemented and will implement, such as the creation of the new social benefit for more than 250 000 people, the increase in unemployment benefit, the increase in pensions in January, the increase in social unemployment benefit, the increase in minimum wage, the creation of extraordinary support for the progressive resumption of activity, the strengthening of the capacity of the Act (Work Conditions Authority), the suspension of the lapse of collective bargaining for 24 months, the elaboration of the Green Paper on the Future of Portugal. In addition to the petition that gave rise to this debate, today we also discussed a draft resolution of the Left Block that seeks to review the regulation of the activities of the professionals of the transport, communications and telecommunications sectors, in order to incorporate the characteristics of these sectors into factors that differentiate the criteria of access to reform. We welcome the Block on the Left by the initiative and, above all, by the opportunity to reflect on this theme. We understand the concerns of workers and trade unions. We understand the difficulties that have been reported: shiftwork, nightwork, variable schedules, prolonged work, often under geographical conditions and adverse climates. We realize that they have an impact on the physical and emotional health of those who do, but also those who share their lives with them. Therefore, the Socialist Party understands this struggle and will always be with the workers when it is fair and fair. It is necessary to take a serious look at all these professions which, because of their characteristics, are subject to difficult and more demanding working conditions. Over the past few weeks, we have attended several discussions in the House on changes in the regulation of certain professions. We understand that this discussion must be made, we understand that workers have a right to this discussion, but we also understand that this discussion cannot and should not be carried out in the piece, it cannot be thrown out. It must always be developed taking into account the professions as a whole, in totality, treating as equal what is equal and unequal what is not equal, creating a homogeneous regime with characteristics common to all and for all. Sometimes positive measures for certain occupational groups become negative for all beneficiaries of the social security contribution scheme. We are sure that the Government will, in future with the help of the Assembly of the Republic, with the contributions of political parties and also workers, because the extent of consensus on social security is a means of defending the system itself, establish legislation that can once and for all combine all the specifications of these sectors, differentiate qualifications between professions and establish rights and obligations within what we believe to be fair and correct for each profession, but also a discussion based on concrete studies of the impact of these measures, so as not to harm the essential policies of the social security system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u118	Mr Firmino Marques of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : I welcome the subscribers of Petition No 12 / XIV / 1, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. either the citizens who signed it individually, or the union associated with it, whose concern is to bring quality and justice to the rapid wear of a professional activity, in a healthy exercise of citizenship on a question that should deserve special care and attention. We do not understand the proliferation of resolution projects every time a professional activity emerges to raise relevant questions from the respective forum, as is the case, addressing such an important issue to the part, as does the draft resolution dragged by the Left Block, when reality requires a global intervention that responds to the new professional wear problems of the 21st century. Once again, the plenary has a subject of recognised complexity and which would deserve much greater attention on the part of the Government in its approach, much more than to argue only that the subject is worthy of special attention in the course of the internal legislative process, in order to regulate such a complex issue as the cause-effect of many occupational activities at risk and that await news, as «the work of Santa Engracia». The Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons defines, in particular, the professions of rapid wear and tear of sports practitioners, defined as such in competent regulatory diplomas, miners and fishermen. to the recognized physical wear of many of the existing professional activities, whether those already identified, or those that have deserved requests for assessment in this House, we have now, more acutely, joined the psychological wear of many of the professional areas judged, until recently, of acceptable risk to professional wear. Just remember the devastation caused by the pandemic that hit us at the door to realize how important all the professional activities are, as well as the wear that causes those who execute them. The existing environmental conditions are also disturbing and influence how much all professional activities wear, adding new concerns to employers, trade unions and the health area, which have become new and intriguing challenges. Now, waiting for good news on this issue, which never arrives, would not be prudent, rather than the government promise that the subject is worth special attention, to fight for the creation of a representative and consistent working group that evaluates, in the light of the twenty-first century, not a first or second division in the escalation of the professional activities of rapid wear, but a serious study that sets the reality of today, different from that of the past, thus introducing justice in the future? It is that in today's day, the specific type of performance is not enough, but its impact on the worker, whether physical or psychological. As if it were not enough, in the days that run, what about precarious work, the type of remuneration or the type of rotating work, in many cases disturbing a desired and always postponed social stability? Won't these factors have a direct influence on the wear of any worker or worker? Alongside the activities of rapid wear, already considered and contemplated in the light of the insufficient legislation in force, there are many others in the middle of the 21st century to claim and deserve careful, serious and prejudiced analysis. Many factors influence the more or less rapid wear of professions and it is urgent that we address this matter, in order to set minimum criteria that can help find greater labour and social justice for the professional classes involved. It is required that you look seriously at this matter, studying together with all those concerned, setting criteria and legislation. The weariness drags with you physical disease and mental illness, social problems, professionals and family, causing, in numerous cases, an inevitable increase in spending on health care, being of all sorts unconceivable and unwise that we continue to turn our backs on this reality, guests of so many homes. At the end of this problem, expressions of regret when something goes wrong, only by the inertia of whom it can and should act, of whom it can and should study the subject, of whom it can and should listen to the pains of those who suffer, of whom it can and should improve and legislate on this matter, which is based on current, rigorous and impartial criteria. Finally, it is not enough to announce intentions and it is not acceptable for this matter to be dealt with as if it were being dealt with in the legislation, and it is therefore necessary to make profound changes to the Labour Code, and it is not fair that, on the basis of false promises, we do not find a point in the 2021 Budget which contemplates a situation which is recognised as delayed. Good sense, coherence and justice at work force us to weigh the necessary balance to which anyone has a right in the world of work that has received it. With hope and expectation, we await, like the miners in their exhausting activity, a light that takes time, and that you can see at the bottom of this tunnel that there is a problem. Fiat lux, light up! That's what's required. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u120	Mr. João Pinho Almeida, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the petitioners, who have absolutely no fault of what I shall say next, but I must say so. Unfortunately, we have to drag a lamentable situation in this Parliament in relation to the treatment of such issues as the one that brings us, which, in this case, is about the anticipation of the retirement age, but which is directly or indirectly related to the rapid wear and special conditions that must be applied to certain professions, as a result of this characteristic of the rapid wear and tear of them. This is undoubtedly the case with workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector. We therefore understand that, without unlocking this situation, it is impossible to solve specifically the problems of each of these professions. Why? Because it is not possible to maintain coherence by treating each of these cases in a vulva way. If we are dealing with each of these cases in an autonomous legislative process, sooner or later we will be giving some professions what we are not giving to others and, on the contrary and much worse, we will be taking out some professions what we are giving to others, and in these cases there is a relative injustice. What is the only way to deal with this matter? It is to have a « hat », having a general legislation, a table indicating how each of the professions should be evaluated so that they have access to special conditions, which may be in anticipation of the retirement age, may be increased, may be days of rest, may be a series of conditions that relate to the specificity of each of the professions. That is why the CDS — we are not just saying this just to be sympathetic to the petitioners who bring us these issues — has presented a project to the Government, because it is through the Government and the information that only the Ministry of Labour has on each of these professions that must initiate a legislative process on this issue. It is very difficult for Parliament to take the initiative, not having that information by the Ministry of Labour. It should be said, for example, that, in relation to this petition, the Ministry of Labour was questioned about the object of the petition and did not respond. In other words, the Ministry of Labour is constantly failing to do so. In the case of the CDS project, the Socialist Party led him by saying that the project was not bad but it was not necessary because the government was doing everything the CDS proposed. It happens that, soon, a year has passed and nothing has happened at all. Therefore, at this moment, in defence of the workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, it is necessary to once again demand the Socialist Party to comply with what it has said, because if it does not, it is leaving all these workers behind. It is unacceptable that they leave them behind, but even worse it is that they leave them behind this perverse way, falling down initiatives from other parties who try to solve the problem by saying that they are doing something in this direction and not doing anything at all. It is an unacceptable lack of respect, which cannot continue to happen. For our part, as long as the situation is not resolved for everyone, we will obviously make it possible for the initiatives they want, at least, to solve the problem with respect to each of the professions, because worse than everything is to leave everyone behind without even allowing them to have a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u122	You have the floor, for a new intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This debate is indeed very relevant because there is a lack of ability and willingness to solve certain problems, particularly by the Socialist Party, but also by the Social Democratic Party. The Socialist Party says that this is an opportunity to reflect not only on the professions we are talking about, that of the transport, communications and telecommunications sector, but also on other professions. Mrs Rita Borges Madeira, we have had over the years many reflections on cabin crews, wallets, call center professionals. We have had numerous petitions and numerous professional sectors that have been addressed to this Parliament just so that this thought can be given. The government continues to say that it is also making such a reflection and, however, years and years go by without any of these professions seeing their problems solved. I recall that we are talking about the case of transport, communications and telecommunications professionals, but there are many thousands of other professionals who have diseases that they have to deal with for the rest of their lives, because so far there has been only one concrete measure that has been taken. For this reason, on the left side of the Block, we believe that it is indeed necessary to have what is called « a global intervention », a cross-sectional logic, an assessment of all professions and the situation point. But there is one thing that we cannot accept and from there we have put forward initiatives over the past few years and accompanied these petitions. It is only because thousands of workers are said to be studying and the government is doing something when it clearly is not. We have responsibility for thousands of workers. Today, it is before the transport, communications and telecommunications workers that we have to answer to Parliament. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was now time for us to have a more serious and respect for these professionals. If not, petitions will continue to arise, they will continue to have health problems and there is no single response from the Government, which is responsible for legislation on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u124	We will move on to the fifth point of our agenda, with the appreciation of Petition No 19 / XIV / 1. a ( Eduardo Bernardino et al.) — Nurses - By creating an official status of rapid wear and risk allowance along with, in general, the Bill No. 404 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to enhance and protect health professionals and with Resolution Projects Nos 785 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognizes the penosity and risk of the nursing profession and recommends that the Government take measures to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses, 786 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government set up a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear, which sets criteria for the award of this qualification and identifies an example list of professions with such qualification, 118 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of the status of the rapid wear occupation and the risk allowance to the security forces, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By awarding a risk allowance to professionals in front of the pandemic battle line and 392 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of a professional career as health assistant. To make the presentation of Bill No. 404 / XIV / 1. a, from the Left Block, has the floor Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 14 000 petitioners, who I use to greet and greet on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, draw the attention of the Assembly of the Republic to the risk and penosity inherent in the profession of nurse and nurse. We would even say, a risk and a penosity inherent in the profession of any health professional. And if we had any doubts about what this is, what is this risk and this pesosity of a health professional, the year 2020 and the COVID-19 pandemic, which we are still living, have translated, in a very practical and very real way, this risk and this pesosity. There are endless hours and shifts behind shifts that health professionals do to ensure that the population has health care, it is the risk of infection, which always exists, being in COVID-19 or not COVID-19 services, being in the COVID-19 pandemic or at any other time, with other pathology and is often the need of these professionals to abdicate from much of what their personal life is, often abdicating their contact with their family, to carry out their profession. Therefore, I would like to begin by congratulating all health professionals, recognizing their importance and saying that this recognition of the importance they have for society and for the country must be translated into better working conditions and better careers for all and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u127	on that, we agree. We also agree that, as many health professionals say today, recognizing their work and their importance is not to stay in the window without any consequences; it is not to dedicate to them a number of football games, however international they are the teams that come to play in Portugal; nor is it not to create a premium that excludes more than it includes, because at the moment there are more than 80 % of the professionals of the National Health Service (SNS) who are not covered by a supposed award that should recognize the performance of the SNS professionals during the pandemic. To recognize these professionals, to recognize their importance, to recognize how essential they are for the country is to strengthen the National Health Service so that they do not have to continue to make endless shifts on endless shifts, it is to hire more professionals and to give them decent careers and working conditions. On nurses and the nursing career, in particular, the Left Block currently has two bills, which have already been presented and discussed in plenary, which are now under discussion in the field of specialty, and which change their career to ensure fairer transitions, to guarantee the category of specialist to whom it is entitled by the Order as a specialist, to ensure the full counting of all points of service, without any cancellation of service time, and to ensure equal treatment between CIT (individual employment contract) and CTFP (individual employment contract). In fact, these amendments could have already been made, not PS and PSD would continue to protect and push with the belly the votes that should have already taken place as a specialist on this career. Regarding the risk and penosity inherent to the profession of nurse, but also inherent to all health professionals, what we propose is a new bill, which we bring today the debate, so that it is applicable to all professionals of the SNS and all professionals of organisms under the care of the Ministry of Health a status that is even of risk and penosity. This statute not only guarantees a risk and penosity supplement for all professionals, the possibility of increasing rest days, the reduction of weekly hours load for work years, the possibility of anticipation of retirement age for years of work and mechanisms for faster progression, but also, very important, must be an integral part of the careers of health professionals. So, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of these professionals for the country will be recognized. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u128	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP, I would like to congratulate the more than 14,000 petitioners who present to this Assembly of the Republic a question of the greatest and most elementary justice, namely, seeking to be assigned the official status of rapid wear and tear to nursing professionals. For the PCP, as we have said in the Assembly of the Republic, we can say that it is the nature of the nursing profession to be in the front line. It's not new for these professionals, they always did, because that's how they embrace their profession. And in this House, when they seek to take care of them, we also have the responsibility of meeting and responding positively to what they ask us to do here. It is necessary to meet the working conditions of nursing professionals. It is not too much to say that they work in shifts, often night shifts, with extreme physical and emotional burden, are exposed to chemical and biological products, with cuts and cuts, radiation or contagious diseases, in addition to the lack of time to care, such as — something that is fundamental — giving a simple glass of water or a friendly word of comfort and tranquility, as is the role of those who care, as is the role of nurses. Let's imagine, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the anxiety that a professional is going through when he tries to fulfill his mission and he doesn't have time to do it. It is in this sense that the CFP presents proposals, because it recognizes that there are risks and risk factors that are not possible to eliminate. Therefore, it is important to minimize or reduce them and recognize and compensate nurses for the exposure they are subject to. The CFP presented a number of initiatives in this House. In this legislation, we presented not only a bill that aims to dignify the nursing career, in which the PCP proposes that nurses be entitled to compensation for the penosity and risk associated with nursing care, but also a bill that strengthens the rights of workers in the night and shift work, addressed to workers in the public and private sectors. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we must also consider that the lack of vision and professional growth is also causing anxiety and uncertainty. For this reason, the PCP presented bills on nursing career, which are at the headquarters of specialty, working to make this career dignified and valued. There has been no lack of PCP proposals to value the nursing career. For this reason, the CFP defines, in this draft resolution, that we bring the debate within the framework of the assessment of this petition, that a specific work regime is regulated, that establishes an effective compensation for nurses due to the penosity and the risk associated with the provision of nursing care that takes into account, inter alia, remuneration aspects, regarding schedules, additional days and holidays. We also propose, in this draft resolution, that the provision of shift and night work be valued, as well as the definition and appreciation of a specific retirement scheme for nurses, and that all this be achieved through a negotiation process, because, in terms of collective bargaining, we value the responsibilities of workers' representative organisations within a maximum of 60 days. For the PCP there is no doubt that the quality of life, sleep and rest, the prevention of emotional disturbances resulting from nursing activity should be recognized and valued. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u130	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor to present the draft resolution of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by addressing the NAP's compliance with the petitioners, who have mobilized themselves through a participatory democracy mechanism to ensure measures of professional valorization of nurses and nurses, fundamental professionals and whose appreciation has to be seen as a structural investment and as a bet on reducing health costs in the medium and long term. We are talking about professionals who are always in the first line of response, subject to high levels of wear and high levels of stress. For those who had doubts about this same, it was enough to look at this health context and they all clearly have more knowledge of how the day-to-day nurse or nurse is, how they are subjected to high risk of infection, how they are responsibly separated from family and friends, working with a high-intensity hourly load, with consecutive shifts, and suffering enormous physical and emotional wear. This crisis has only revealed the existing reality. Prolonged hours and work for consecutive shifts, without the period due to recovery, already existed, often being a stable social and family life of such difficult reconciliation. The data are clear: they indicate that more than 25% of nurses have stress, depression and anxiety, with frequent burnout cases. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it will be clear to all the evidence and the need to recognize this profession as a rapid wear and risk allowance, whose crisis has only made this need more evident. The NAP will vote in favour of all the proposals which are in line with the claim made by this petition, but, as we have already had the opportunity to mention in previous interventions, this allocation cannot ignore other professions, which are also worthy of this same qualification. There are other cases that clearly cannot be forgotten. Therefore, we insist and bring a recommendation that aims to ensure justice, protection and valorization of all professions that are likely to be qualified as a rapidly worn-out profession. We want the government to deal with this problem effectively and we propose that this so-called working group be set up which is supposed to take place, but of which no one still knows. It is necessary for the Government to define criteria for the award of this qualification and to identify an exemplary list of professions with such qualification. Only then can we make this recognition, avoiding the logic of a blanket of flaps. Only in this way will we be able to discuss with justice and budgetary balance the subject of the rapidly worn-out professions. The proposal we bring here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it aims to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic does not turn its back on the demands of these professionals, which are essential to the country, these claims which have arrived through petitions to this House, quite often. It remains to be known which side each political force will be positioned in the votes: if on the side of those who think that recognition is done with applause; if on the side of those who, like the NAP, understand that only by valuing these professionals can the recognition be ensured by all of us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u132	To present the draft resolutions of the Arrival, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Starting with welcoming the petitioners, I want to say that the recommendations we bring here are of the most fundamental justice. I would like to mention, in three main lines, these recommendations: firstly, the creation of professional career as an auxiliary health technician—are about 25 000 those who, today, serve as assistants, integrated in general careers and who are not properly regulated; secondly, also, and again, the allocation of risk subsidies, not only to our police forces, but also to all those who are in the front of the fight against the pandemic of the COVID-19 ; and thirdly, we do not forget, because we could not forget, the allocation of the status of the rapid wear-out profession, there has been much demanded, not only by the representative associations of this sector, but also by the Zero (M0 ) Movement of the police, which is the most elementary justice. In fact, it is also of the most fundamental justice that men and women who give their lives, as it has still happened this past week, do not see themselves given up, without only one support from the State in this matter. This is what we want, and this is what we propose, and this is the most fundamental justice that we have here for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u134	For an intervention you now have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the more than 14,000 petitioners who present their claims to us. Reading the text of the petition and the pronouncement of the Order of Nurses, there seems, in fact, to be a basis for these claims, even understanding that, in time of pandemic, they become even more relevant. However, and still maintaining the issue within the health sector, one cannot but wonder if there will be no other professional groups to whom it would be legitimate, for identical reasons, and in identical time, to attribute these same rights. If so, ask-CL-is to be attributed exclusively to nurses the status of rapid weariness with the inherent risk allowance would not imply negative discrimination against all other health professionals, who also work, as the petition says, under great stress, of adverse conditions and who, above all, also deal with human lives. I wonder, therefore, whether it is fair to allow this discrimination to pass. And if we extend even more the scope to other professional groups with the same intention—and which have been the subject of discussion in plenary, such as, for example, the portfolios or cabin crews, or other groups, which I accompany in the Education Committee, such as the children’s educators, it becomes clear that decisions ad hoc are at risk. The question of the professions of rapid wear cannot be analyzed alone, under the penalty of generating numerous discriminations and multiple non-consistent regimes; it has to be treated globally, with clear criteria and a complete list of professions that may be in a position to benefit from this status and risk allowance, technically evaluating its substance and the conditions of practice of these professions and, finally, and also important, what is feasible and sustainable from the point of view of the State. In May, as has already been said in relation to the previous point that was under discussion, the CDS presented Bill No. 234 / XIV / 1. a, proposing the establishment of a working group for the definition of a rapid wear occupation and its legal regime. At the time, the bill deserved an almost general consensus, but it had the rejection of the Socialist Party, with the argument, at the time, that it was not worth approving the draft law of the CDS, not because the project had no merit, not because it did not point the right way, but because the government was already doing so. Now, I was already doing it in May, he continues to do it in December, and he knows when he will finally finish doing it. What we have to say right now is that, for us, this matter would be settled and legislated. And, of two, one : it would either apply, or it would not apply to this case, and it could make sense there to discuss the projects of the Block or the PCP. There is no clear legislation today, which allows for a response to this and other situations, has only one responsible, which is the government. So the CDS repeats what it said in the discussion of the previous point, that is, what it has said whenever these matters come to Parliament: what does the Socialist Party have to pass on to us today about what was almost ready a year ago? It's up to you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a legal regime for the professions of rapid wear and a weighted and balanced response to give, in this case, to nurses, but also to all the other professional groups in this scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u136	Mrs Mariana Silva, from the ENP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are addressed to the petitioners who promoted and signed Petition No 19 / XIV / 1. a — Nurses - The creation of an official status of rapid wear and risk allowance. During the past few years, Portuguese nurses have always maintained the struggle for the conquest and defense of their rights. As these essential workers in the National Health Service ( National Health Service ), with a close link to the patients, the recognition of their work must, above all, go through the valuation of wages, respect for working hours, improvement of working conditions and adaptation of the rights to the conditioners of this profession. Nurses have associated to the profession with penosity, risk, pressure and exposure to chemicals, radiation, and often more than those that would be desirable, to violence. The time we live on, with the COVID-19 pandemic, made it clear that health professionals were essential. With a remarkable delivery, they ensured close follow-up to those who needed to use the SNS, facing fear and insecurity for users to receive the best care. The delivery and dedication of these professionals were, in fact, essential at times when the numbers of infected were greater, when little or nothing was known, in which the fear of being ill or of taking the disease home was raised. They were present, even with distress, with the impossibility of reaching out to everyone, even not enjoying the holidays in all, even making consecutive shifts, even losing nights and opposing the physical and psychological tiredness. And they were already present before the pandemic, with the same problems, with the same anxieties, with the same difficulties, but still without the palms in the country's balsams. The pandemic brought in the light of the day the problems. Now it is up to the government to solve them, because it is no longer possible to ignore them. It is time to strengthen the SNS for the future, and this is only possible with recognized professionals. The Greens will therefore vote in favour of the projects that recommend to the Government that compensation for the risks associated with the profession be defined, to regulate pensions, to consider the physical and psychological wear of such a demanding profession and with such irregular schedules.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u138	Mr Carla Barros, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD begins by welcoming the first petitioners, Eduardo Bernardino and Emanuel Boieiro, people in whom we also greet the 14,261 subscribers who bring the debate the claim to create an official status of rapid wear and risk allowance for nurses. We also take advantage of you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, to thank and acknowledge the total dedication, the resistance these professionals have had in situations as adverse as this, and unique, that the country is overcoming in times of pandemic. Well, thank you all very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this issue of nurses, are numerous the petitions we have received, as has already been mentioned here, but nurses want us today to be able to reflect on their working conditions, on the physical and psychological tiredness to which they are subject, on the pressure they daily suffer, in the exercise of their duties. But it is also important here to highlight what the position of the PSD has been and that we have always been referring to in this debate. It is because the PSD understands, as has already been mentioned in previous debates, that this issue cannot be the target of isolated, avulnerable legislative processes. This matter of rapid wear and tear must be dealt with in a comprehensive way, with objective, transparent and perceptible criteria, so that we are not creating injustices for some professionals to the detriment of others. This is precisely what led the PSD in May to follow a CDS initiative here. However, this initiative of the CDS, set up by a working group of experts, which could finally study and meditate on the subject, so that we could reach a table of creation of unique criteria, was « arranged» by the Socialist Party. And the Socialist Party has apologized for the lead of this initiative for the fact that the government is already studying, having a working group involving all the ministries, and that, in the meantime, conclusions on the subject will emerge. This has already happened in May and the State Budget has passed, there have been great discussions on the subject, the petitions continue and the PS is silent. But even more serious is that Mrs. Minister of Health, besides being quiet, does not receive nurses. The Minister of Health has not received nurses since October 2019! The Minister has interrupted the negotiation process, she does not want collective bargaining. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party needs to know what it is doing, because interrupting the negotiating process at a time when it wins elections is to tell the country that it does not need nurses. And the PSD in this area will always alert you, because these working groups cannot only serve to feed expectations, they have to serve for the Socialist Party to come to this Parliament to provide clarification on what you are doing in matters of rapid wear and tear, which have been discussed here so much. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be noted that the Minister of Health does not want to face dialogue with nurses, does not want to recognize the problems that nurses have in the field. The Minister does not want to talk about the commitment, which she has assumed to all the nurses in the public sector, that they would all work 35 hours. So today, we have nurses who work 40 hours and others who work 35 hours. Today, November 2020, we have recorded a number of approximately 14 million additional hours, a number that has never been registered in the country, nor in the history of the National Health Service. Are there any vacation plans? The nurses, along with their families, could not enjoy them. Even with regard to individual protective equipment, there was a precautionary measure against the State because the government did not comply with the supply of the equipment needed for nurses to cope with the pandemic. But there are many other reasons for nurses' claims, such as issues related to specialist nurses and management nurses and career problems, pay. Finally, we would not leave here if we were to list all the problems of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u140	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. I conclude my speech with a reflection we have to make today: why have the citizens' petitions on various professions been immense? This can only mean that the subject of working conditions, the social protection of workers, is not being duly guarded by this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u142	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cristina Mendes da Silva of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin this speech by congratulating and thanking all the signatories and all the signatories of this petition, Petition No 19 / XIV / 1. a — Nurses - For the creation of an official status of rapid wear and risk allowance, this petition deserves all our consideration and respect not only for the relevance of the recitals we have, but especially for the dramatic moment we are going through and whose work, dedication and altruism of the nurses and the ladies. Nurses are very proud of us. Also with regard to Bill No. 404 / XIV / 1. the left block, which is intended for all health professionals, is sensitive to the assumptions pointed out and we do not doubt the importance of the involvement and effort of these professionals in relation to the volume of work with which they are currently faced, as well as their necessity. In relation to the Resolution Project No 785 / XIV / 2. the PCP, we consider it equally relevant and related to the risk of nursing profession, recommending measures of use of a specific employment and retirement scheme. However, the Socialist Party, despite all the relevant considerations of this petition and of the proposals of the Left Block and the CFP, considers it important, once and for all, to establish a set of rules and criteria that allow fair and equitable definition of the professions of rapid wear, as well as the promotion of effective and effective measures to mitigate penosity with an impact on health and safety issues at work, allowing to reduce the harsh working conditions and their negative impacts on the health of these professionals. In fact, the Socialist Party has always put a great focus on this subject, but it also has the notion that in some professions the mitigation of these risks is very difficult, perhaps even impossible. However, we must not fail to promote the reduction of harsh working conditions, to increase the protection factors, the training of professionals for self-protection, the training of leaders and those responsible for human resources and process managers for a better dynamic of profitability of the services provided, but which ensures the quality of life of professionals. It is also important to train ACT technicians to motivate strategies that promote better quality of work for employers and, at the same time, support professionals themselves to promote physical, psychological health balances and establish their own limits and rights before the services they have to perform. A quick-wear profession must, first and foremost, be a profession with access to effective and effective measures of reduced risk penosity, with their respective and specific compensations, but without creating injustices with other professions which, due to various factors, may not have had the ability to alert and claim this status and that we should have in law fairness and justice with all professionals, of all sectors that deserve our greatest consideration without exception. We therefore believe that until these rules are defined, they should not be described in a gross manner as rapidly worn-out professions. However, we would like to point out that in September 2020 the Government published Decree Law No 70 / 2020 which, and I quote, "updates the age of access to pensions and eliminates the sustainability factor of older age anticipation schemes from the general social security regime". Thus, the old-age pensions of workers with rapid wear occupations will no longer suffer the cut of 15, 2 %. On 3 December, Decree-Law No. 101 - B / 2020 was also published, which awards compensation to workers of the National Health Service involved in the fight against the pandemic of COVID-19, with requirements for the increase of the holiday period and the award of the performance premium, so draft Resolution No. 786 / XIV / 2. a, the NAP, which « recommends that the Government set up a working group to amend the legal framework of the rapid wear professions which defines criteria for the allocation of this qualification and identify the exemplary list of professions with such qualification », seems to us an option, although the fact that the Government is already concerned about this effective. We therefore believe that the Government will do everything in its power to give a full and fair answer, which will also go through the social dialogue and the contribution we are making here today very clearly with the discussion of these proposals and that it would probably have done so if this year was not so complicated and we were not in front of a pandemic. Thus, the Socialist Party reiterates its full responsibility for the discussion of this so important normative, as it is shown by solidarity with health professionals, especially those and nursing professionals underlying the proposals presented here for their eximilar work and professional commitment of ever, but, given this pandemic that we live, we express our gratitude for the sense of collective mission and personal altruism while remaining in the front line of this fight, which is of all of us but which will only be possible to be won by the struggle for the life of those who are ill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u144	Mrs. Members, in accordance with Article 78. that of the Rules of Procedure, and since there have been some time since then, I will ask who the honourable Members are. Members who still want to use the floor. Mr. André Ventura, do you still want to use the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u145	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u146	And Mrs Bebiana Cunha?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u147	Not either, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u148	Mr. João Dias wants to use the time of the CFP?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u149	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u150	So you have the floor, Mr. João Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the short time remaining, allow me, Mrs. Carla Barros, to remind you of something that Mrs. Deputy knows perfectly: that it is valuing health professionals, valuing, in particular, nurses who defend the SNS and who guarantee the quality of public service. Therefore, this is probably one of the justifications that PSD has to not recognize what is the appreciation of health professionals and, in particular, nurses. But this responsibility, in addition to falling on the PSD, also falls on the PS and CDS, which do not resolve. But we have proposals that solve and value health professionals, specifically nurses. So, and to end, I want to tell you not to value those who live with human suffering, not to value those who suffer with death,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u152	Talk to the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u153	...not to value those who live with the loss and the inability of the other... is that this is not harmless and causes serious damage. Therefore, it is necessary to recognize the conditions of penosity and risk of nursing professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u154	We have thus concluded the fifth item on the agenda. We move on to the sixth point, which consists of the joint assessment of Petition No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( Citizens'Movement ) — The construction of a basic school of the 2. o is 3. the basic education and secondary education cycles in Fernão Ferro, Seixal, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 260 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) and secondary in Fernão Ferro, 615 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 634 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to construct a 2 school. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the Seixal, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 643 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedures for the construction of a basic school for the 2. o is 3. the cycles and for secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro, 646 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By building a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary in the Fernão Ferro parish, in the municipality of Seixal, and 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of a basic school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro To present the draft resolution of the Block of Left, has the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block first welcomes petitioners subscribing to the petition for the construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic and secondary education cycles in Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal. The construction of this school is a real need and there is much identified, only one missing to build it. The population of Fernão Ferro has steadily increased over the last few years and of the more than 17 000 inhabitants are up to 14 years old. The trend continues to be rejuvenation. In the three basic schools with 1. the cycle and pre-school in this parish, the Basic School of Fernão Ferro, the Basic School of Quinta dos Morgados and the Basic School of Rounds, there are more than 600 students and students of 1. the cycle and more than 100 children in pre-school. When they end the 1st. the cycle these students pass and will have to attend schools outside Fernão Ferro, a problem that is even more aggravated by the situation of overcrowding of schools, almost all, of the municipality of Seixal. The 2nd Basic School. o is 3. the cycles Dr. Carlos Ribeiro, located in the ancient parish of Arrentela, and headquarters of the Pinhal School Group of Frades, which covers these schools that I mentioned of Fernão Ferro, is also overcrowded and currently counts with more than 10 classes beyond what is its capacity. The absence of a secondary school in the Fernão Ferro parish obliges parents and education officers to look for alternatives outside the municipality of Seixal, which is unacceptable and obviously brings numerous problems, constraints and damage to families, but also to children. Responding to the concerns of the population of Fernão Ferro, the Left Block delivered in February a draft resolution recommending to the Government the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. cycles and secondary in Fernão Ferro. The construction of this new school is the guarantee of access to public school with improvements in quality of life, but also of the quality of learning for these students and students, also removing the demographic pressure exerted on other schools. As I said, this is a long-identified need. The Sexal Education Charter, approved by the Ministry of Education 14 years ago, already provided for the construction of this school. The Fernão Ferro Board unanimously recognises this need, the City Hall of Six has already made available the grounds for the construction of the school, but there is only one government that finally decides to respond to this problem. The county of Sixal has overcrowded schools, it has degraded schools. This is the case of the João de Barros High School, which has students in containers for works postponed over 10 years and, like the need for works in degraded schools, it is urgent to build new schools that are needed. The demographic balance of Fernão Ferro is clear: it is a population that continues to be young and has no schools for their children. The new school is therefore a necessity and an urgency, and it is a constitutional duty of the government to guarantee equality in access to public school. The reasons of the petitioners are clear and widely welcomed by this House. Let us hope, after the resolution has been adopted, that the government will not keep it in the drawer and that it will be ready to start the construction of a primary and secondary school in Fernão Ferro, which is needed by all. The county of Sixal is tired of waiting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u156	Mr Paula Santos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to address a first word of greeting to the authorities of the Sixal, of greeting to the educational community of Fernão Ferro and of greeting to the population of Fernão Ferro for having dynamized this petition and brought to the Assembly of the Republic a need that has long existed in this parish, which is the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and a secondary school to respond to the educational needs that are felt and that are a right of children and young people in this parish. Allow me, therefore, also to welcome the President of the City Council of Sixal here and to accompany this discussion. The need for the construction of a basic school and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro has long been identified, but successive governments, PSD, CDS and PS,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u158	... have not taken the necessary measures to give effect to this claim. And they are schools whose construction becomes increasingly urgent. By giving a voice to the demands of the authorities, the populations, the educational community, the CFP brings to the Assembly of the Republic, to follow up the debate of this petition, a draft resolution in which it recommends that the Government initiate the construction process of a school of 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in Fernão Ferro on land already made available by the municipality of Seixal and reserved in the head office of Education Charter of Seixal, in order to ensure equality in school access to students as well as their constitutional right to education. This parish has very particular characteristics. This is a parish which has had an extremely positive demographic development, with the establishment of young people, who have children of school age, and the educational network, in this particular case of the responsibility of the government, has not been strengthened, nor has it been expanded to give an answer to the right to education of these children and young people. The nearest school in the municipality of Seixal is the Carlos Ribeiro Basic School, which is already in overcrowding, with students and classes beyond its capacity. Many of the students of this parish, given this reality, are forced to move to other schools, including schools outside the Town Hall of Six, and this actually introduces a set of inequalities with regard to these students. The Education Charter of Sexal, also has long been approved by the Ministry of Education, in 2006, already provided for the construction of this school. We are talking about a reality that is already 15 years old and that takes a long time to be realized. In good time this petition was brought to the Assembly of the Republic, which we believe can make a contribution. And the perspective of the CFP is precisely to seek solutions to ensure these children and young people the right to a quality education, the right to have schools close to their homes so that they can ensure their educational course. This is the compromise that the CFP has entered into. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u159	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor :
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All parties, except the Socialist Party, joined this petition, which collected more than 4500 signatures, which requested the construction of a school of 2. o is 3. cycles and secondary in Fernão Ferro. Note: works are not being requested in a school, it is being asked to build a school, because there is no public school — that type of school that inspires so much inflamed speech to the PS — to respond to a fregetal with rapid and consistent population growth. As the PS is not associated with these initiatives and as the government has not mobilized so far, it is the schools of other churches that have come to respond, as has already been said, and I refer, for example, to the school of Pinhal de Frades, which has 10 more classes in view of its capacity. Very dense and profound speeches can be made here on the number of students per class, on inclusive school, on the fundamental role of public school, but, if the decision is not to build it, that of not offering to the citizens, the promise is empty. The land, as has been said here, has already been donated by the authority, that is, there is already a place for the construction of this school, so all parties, except the Socialist Party, ask the government to start its construction. This is the most basic answer, it is a state obligation. That said, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr President, if I may, as this is the last intervention I make this year in plenary, I would like to take this opportunity and the time I have to wish to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, to the honourable Members. Officials and Mr. Journalists a happy Christmas, lived in security, and that in 2021 we are up to a year that will be difficult for many of our fellow citizens and that, with them and for them, we know how to build a renewed hope for our country. [[Thank you very much!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u161	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the ENP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Basic School of the 2. o is 3. the Carlos Ribeiro cycle, headquarter of the Pinhal School Group of Frades, which covers the area of the Fernão Ferro parish, is currently in an overcrowding situation, as, moreover, can be seen by the fact that it has more than 10 classes beyond its capacity and still presents itself as insufficient to respond to all the students of the Fernão Ferro parish. As all data and numbers show very clearly, Fernão Ferro's parish has seen a positive growth in its population and, in particular, in the young population. In fact, it is sufficient to address the data made available to us by the 2011 Censuses in order to have the notion of this trend of growth. According to the Censuses, in 2011 this parish had more than 17 000 inhabitants, of which 2800 were between 0 and 14 years old. In the school year 2018 / 2019, the parish had 125 children in pre-school education and 625 students in 1. the cycle of basic education, in all schools of parish. Faced with this reality and with the absence of a primary school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary, students are thus forced to seek the necessary educational offer outside of the parish and even in the neighbouring municipalities. As such, and aware of this urgent need, there has already been a great deal of concern for the population and, in particular, for the teachers and students, the petition which motivated this agenda and which was signed by thousands of citizens — on behalf of the Greens, I welcome them, in particular those who are present to accompany the work, in particular the President of the Chamber of the Six — precisely in order to claim the urgent construction of a basic school and secondary education in Fernão Ferro. It should also be noted that the City Hall of Seixal has already made available land for the construction of these schools and that the City's own Education Charter, approved by the Ministry of Education in 2006, provides for the construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles of basic and secondary education in the parish of Fernão Ferro. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party considers that it is urgent to respond to this educational need of the school community, of the education officers and of the students of the Fernão Ferro parish, through the construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic and secondary education cycles, also providing compliance with strategic documents, such as the Education Charter of the Six, and the right to access to education, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. That is exactly the sense of the legislative initiative that the Greens today bring to the discussion, that is, an initiative that seeks to respond to a problem whose urgency is so felt that, together with this petition, we discussed seven legislative initiatives, all with the same purpose, all in the same sense, with the aim of responding to a serious problem which, in good time, was driven by the residents, parents and teachers of the Fernão Ferro parish. We hope that the rest of the banks will follow the Greens on this legislative initiative, as, moreover, the Greens will do on the other initiatives. We are sure that, in the field of expertise, it will be easy to find a common text that can help to respond to this serious problem that has been brought to us by the petitioners. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u163	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to leave a first word of greeting to the petitioners and, in essence, to thank them for the opportunity to discuss this issue here, which, of course, is accompanied by much of this plenary. Access to education and its democratization are great achievements, either of our society or of a democratic Portugal, but in fact, this conquest will not be fully fulfilled as long as there are situations such as those living in Fernão Ferro, where a part of the population, which we know to be more than 17 000 inhabitants, is forced to leave the parish daily in order to continue their studies, after completion of 1. the cycle of basic education. The quality of education is not sufficient with the existence of supply in the municipality, requiring proximity when the existence of population and demand so justify it. Therefore, in this case, this hypothesis is seriously hypothesized when students and their families are required to frequent pendulum travels that not only represent notorious cost of quality of life as they represent relevant economic and environmental costs. In the case of Fernão Ferro, the response of a quality education passes, in our perspective, by building a school that not only guarantees the offer in the territory as respect and value the learning of students and also passes, which is also important, by the possibility that they can give continuity to their educational and formative project in a context of greater proximity and integration with the community, facilitating the daily life of families, which are faced with long periods of travel and many daily trips due to the absence of this response. The NAP, without prejudice to following the initiatives we are discussing, will obviously follow them, because they also require the construction of equipment, then defend the construction of a single school in Fernão Ferro, which integrates the level of education of 2. o is 3. the cycles and also secondary, safeguarding the number of students and classes to be formed, and respecting the legal and quality of teaching standards that we consider to be demanding. Education policies today, ladies and gentlemen. speakers point out greater benefits to the continuity of school educational projects, to the interdisciplinary articulation between teachers at different levels and training areas, while this integrated option also allows for more effective school management, as well as strengthening ties in the school community, which clearly adds pedagogical value. The construction of this school will enable students and families finally to respond in this territory, minimizing the daily constraints to which they are subject, a claim that, we believe, deserves the attention and consensus of all of us. Taking advantage of the motto given by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I pay the votes of good parties to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Officials, waiting for petitioners to see their claims accompanied.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u165	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners for bringing this important issue to debate, whose concerns and demands we accompany. The State has the important role to play in ensuring equal access opportunities and school success. However, several cases of communities that do not have educational establishments are still known. One of these examples is that of the Fernão Ferro parish, which has no school of 2. o is 3. the cycle of basic education, nor of secondary education, imposing these students who move to other churches. In the school year 2018 / 2019, Fernão Ferro had 125 children in pre-school education and 625 students in 1. the cycle, recording, over time, a positive demographic evolution, which demonstrates this need. The City Hall of Seixal has already made available the land for its construction and therefore we support the urgent construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education in the parish of Fernão Ferro, fulfilling the Education Charter of Seixal, approved by the Ministry of Education in 2006, and providing that parish with educational equipment that guarantees quality education and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u167	Mrs Fernanda Velez of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the petitioners who are in the gallery and through them I also greet all the subscribers of this citizen initiative, whose object is of great importance to the school community of Fernão Ferro. By virtue of this petition, with more than 4000 signatures, as mentioned above, the petitioners request the construction of a basic school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education in the parish of Fernão Ferro. And, in this sense, they clearly justify this claim by presenting a set of arguments with which we fully agree, why the PSD presented the Draft Resolution No 666 / XIV / 2a, recommending that the Government take, in the short term, all the measures and procedures necessary for the construction of a primary and secondary school in Fernão Ferro. The theme of this petition brings us a growing and present concern: access to an inclusive and quality public school for all. Thirty-seven years of teaching and the coordination of the district secretariat of a teachers' union allow me to know very well the reality of the school park of the district of Setúbal, as well as the ability to overcome problems, the effort and dedication of the authorships and educational communities of my electoral circle. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of investment in education is a reality — a sad reality! We continue with schools that urgently requalify, with a very high number of students per class, with lack of teachers and operational assistants. And even more seriously, in some territories there are no educational establishments that guarantee the necessary educational supply for children and young people. This is the case of Fernão Ferro, which presents a very positive demographic evolution, with a significant growth trend of the young population. in this parish there are only basic schools. At the end of this cycle of education, children and young people do not have any answers from the Ministry of Education at level 2 in Fernão Ferro. o is 3. cycles as well as secondary education. Finding the committed educational offer, students are forced to move to schools away from the place of residence, sometimes in neighbouring municipalities. As already mentioned, the need for the construction of a basic and secondary school in this parish has been identified for a long time. The construction of this school is therefore a priority, a priority which brings together a broad consensus of civil society and I dare say, of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of six Budgets, six State budgets viable by PS and the extreme left parties, six Budgets in which, for PS, PCP, PEV and PAN, the construction of a basic and secondary school in Fernão Ferro, was not a priority. [[Protests by PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]] There are six budgets that are not in line with what today, in the House of Democracy, the parties of the extreme left! They have now agreed on this problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u169	Sad figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u170	The Portuguese need to know that the extreme left holds power, approving Budgets which do not contemplate what is claimed by the citizens and then towing petitions, in a exercise of hypocrisy and hunting vote, come here to Parliament, "to weep tears of crocodile" and to present legislative initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of six State budgets, there is only one thing missing: the political will of the Socialist Government and the parties of the extreme left that support it. Education is an essential pillar of our society. This is an unquestionable axiom! In the midst of a pandemic crisis, public health and economics are subjects of particular importance, but without education, the human condition is diminished.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u171	That's what you see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u172	Education is a social process, it is development, it is preparation for life, it is life itself. For the PSD, people and education are priorities and therefore we understand that the construction of a basic school of the 2 is urgent and unattainable. o is 3. cycles and secondary education in Fernão Ferro. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, it is urgent and imperative that the Ministry of Education assume its responsibilities because, as Sá Carneiro said, « the person must be the principle and the end of all political action ». [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u173	Mr Fernando José of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the Citizens' Movement, petitioners of this initiative, which with this civic action enhance our democracy in the search for better living conditions for the communities. by demanding more and better conditions in the area of education in the municipality of Seixal, district of Setúbal, claim the petitioners the construction of a basic school 2/3 and secondary, in Fernão Ferro, which best serves the populations. in this context, it is also important to welcome all the parliamentary banks that today present initiatives to recommend to the Government the construction of this school and for which we will not oppose it. In short, they are initiatives that, although somewhat disqualified, aim in themselves that unites us all: strengthening and valuing public school. In fact, after years of disinvestment in public education, the Socialist Party's Government has faced with assertivity and pragmatism the challenge of reversing this situation, giving more and better conditions to school communities. For the fight against the scourge of asbestos in our schools and for the construction of new equipment—for example, the works at the John de Barros High School, in the parish of Corroios, the Town Hall of Seixal, or in the Basic School 2/3 Browser Rodrigues Soromenho, in Sesimbra — solutions were found, solutions that PSD only now seems to want to find. For years, they cut and uninvested. Welcome to the defense of the public school! [[Protests from PSD Members.]] They are solutions that will always have to be analyzed and properly framed at every moment, with the concern of the present but always with eyes placed in the future. The most recent analysis of the evolution of the school population in the parish of Fernão Ferro and contiguous territories, as well as the capacity to host educational establishments whose area of influence covers this locality, does not conclude by the need to build a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles of basic and secondary education. In fact, this analysis concludes by the priority in strengthening the supply of pre-school education and 1. the basic education cycle and the competence for the construction of infrastructures is local authorities, possibly with valences of 2. o is 3. the cycle of basic education, to integrate in the group of Pinhal schools of Frades, to optimize the offer and reduce the need for student displacement. As regards 3. the cycle of basic education and secondary education is a slightly decreasing trend in the number of classes in some of the groups of schools, but, in a proximity logic, the response to possible deficiencies in the parish of Fernão Ferro and contiguous territories can be ensured by the strengthening of supply in the groups of schools of Pinhal de Frades, Arrentela and the secondary school Michel Giacometti. It is necessary to continue to do even more and better for the valorization of public school — that was the way taken by the Government of the Socialist Party over the past five years and that was the mark of the Socialist Party in previous governments — but this path of valorization and densification of public school must be traced with the appropriate framework and pragmatic analysis at every moment. when we arrive at the end of a year that represented the greatest exercise of citizenship of our lives and are about to enter a new year, with renewed hope and determination, we can once again leave to bring a word of recognition to teachers, non-teachers, students, parents and educators by the responsible and resilient way in which they responded to the challenges of this unprecedented crisis. I end by wishing everyone a happy Christmas and a good New Year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u175	Mrs Fernanda Velez has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u176	Mr. President and Mr. Members : Member of the Socialist Party, your party, with the support of BE, PCP, PEV and PAN, has been ruling for six years. It's not six days, it's not six months, sir! It's six years! They are six years of government, four of which the economic and financial situation of our country was quite different from that faced by Pedro Passos Coelho following the disparity of José Socrates and the problems that you have created and failed to solve. [[PS and BE protests.]] Now, as you have difficulty understanding, I remember that the PSD ruled with the intervention of the troika, called by then Prime Minister José Socrates! [[PS and BE protests.]] In six years of government, the PS did nothing to solve the problem of the school community of Fernão Ferro. This is the reality! Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PS and the extreme left, it is time to stop blaming the PSD government for what you could and should have done, it is time to assume your responsibilities. It is time for this government to move on to action, outlining educational policies that do not compromise the comprehensive training of children and young people, i.e. of future generations of Portugal. I end by wishing everyone a holy Christmas and a New Year full of personal and professional achievements. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u177	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando José has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Fernanda Velez, in five years, and not six years, the Socialist Party has not closed any school. In five years, the Socialist Party finally managed to move forward with the resolution of a serious problem affecting the school community, the scourge of asbestos. Finally a solution was found!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u179	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u180	In five years, the Socialist Party managed to solve a problem that the PSD could not solve. It seems that only now, in the opposition, he's worried about public school. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u181	We're talking about the João de Barros School, at the Seixal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since they are so worried about Seixal, why did they not solve the problem of the John Barros School and had to be the Socialist Party to solve it? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u182	Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are at the end of this debate, which, I believe, was worth it, but it was regrettable that the PSD... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u184	It was regrettable because the PSD was responsible, as much as the PS and the CDS, for disinvestment in education. [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]] He was responsible for the increase in the number of students per class and was responsible for cutting into school social action. And the PCP was decisive. Do you know why, Mrs. Deputy? It was crucial, for example, for the freeness of school textbooks throughout compulsory schooling. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u185	The PCP was decisive, and not going as far as we defend, for the replacement of the number of students by class before the cut made by the PSD, beyond the PSD and the CDS, at the time when they were government, they completely dropped the works that were fundamental to the John de Barros High School... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u186	... and that they are not yet resolved by the inaction of the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u187	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u188	So it is clear who is responsible, who votes what and who defends what!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u190	For the CFP, what is fundamental right now — and we regret that there is no necessary investment — is that the government assumes its responsibilities and does not seek to transfer them to the authorities. [[PSD Member Protest Fernanda Velez.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u191	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. The municipality has made an effort to invest within the framework of its responsibilities in preschool and 1. the cycle. What is missing is investment by the Government in paragraphs 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary, of which are examples the needs of this school in the parish of Fernão Ferro. The PCP is here in a constructive perspective, to contribute to finding solutions, and will not fail to fight and intervene, along with the educational community, with the population and with the authorities, so that the school, in the Fernão Ferro parish, is a reality. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u193	They enable budgets and then complain about the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u194	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the debate on this item on our agenda, so we will enter the voting period, since we have more than enough quorum. Almost 200 Members are registered. Let's start with the Vote Project No. 427 / XIV / 2. a ( presented by the CDS-PP ) — I regret the death of Nuno Lima Mayer Moreira, to whom I join as President of the Assembly of the Republic and personally. Mr Telmo Correia will please read this draft vote. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « On 16 December he died in Lisbon, a victim of sudden illness, Nuno Lima Mayer Alves Moreira, historian and author of the CDS-PP. At 47, Nuno Moreira was married and father to three boys. Graduated in History and Postgraduate in Portuguese Culture, she was a professor, university assistant and self-employed, currently a superior archival technician in the Santa Casa da Misericórdia de Lisboa. Presidy also to ALMA — Lima Mayer Association for Arts, institution for cultural purposes and which assigns scholarships for young people in the artistic areas of photography, cinema, theatre and painting. Nuno Moreira was always a committed militant of the CDS, and all those who contacted him were able to witness his contagious enthusiasm. He was the leader of the party, with various positions at local and national level, including that of a member of the National Council, the National Jurisdiction Council and the National Supervisory Council, among others. In the 2017 elections, he was nominated by the CDS to the Board of Aid Freguesia, in Lisbon, since then being author in the Assembly of that parish. And in the last legislative elections he was the head of the CDS list by the circle of Bragança, a challenge that he confessed to embrace with ‘a great joy’, for being the land of his father, Prof. Adriano Moreira, and in this way, the power to honor him. Nuno Moreira was a person of gentle treatment and strong convictions. Let those with him share the memory of their joy, their generosity, their availability, their willingness to help and do. A good man and a personality strongly marked by Christian democracy. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decided to demonstrate its deep regret and dismay at the death of Nuno Lima Mayer Moreira and presents to the whole family, here present, the most sorry condolences, with a warm embrace to his sister and our colleague Mrs Isabel Moreira. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u196	Thank you, Mr Telmo Correia. Before we proceed to the vote on the draft vote, I would like to stress the presence of the family in this House, not only that of our colleague Isabel Moreira but also that of our father, Prof. Adriano Moreira, to whom I greet, addressing my deepest condolences. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the deliberative part of this draft vote. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We still have the Vote Project No. 432 / XIV / 2. a ( submitted by PS, PCP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Regret for the death of Celina Pereira. Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of reading this draft vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft vote is of the following content: « It died last December 17, in Almada, at 80 years of age, Celina Pereira, leaving the culture of Cape Verde and Portugal poorer, where it had been rooted for several years. Larger figure of contemporary Cape Verdean culture, Celina Pereira not only marked the musical panorama in Cape Verde, in Portugal and near its diaspora, as it proved to be the holder of a remarkable career as writer, educator, cultural divulifier, activist and, with special affection, ‘counter of stories and stories’”. Natural of the island of Boavista, Maria Celina Silva Pereira would finish the course of the Primary Magisterium in Viseu. Going on stage for the first time in 1968, in 1979 his musical life would record the recording of a single, launching in 1986 his first LP, Força di Cretcheu, a work already marked by his multifaceted profile and scored by the collection of stories and traditions. Its storytelling component has been stated since early, passing also with international expression in several countries of the Cape Verde diaspora, in the United States of America, where it collaborated on the network of public schools in Boston, or in Italy or France, launching numerous albums of childhood stories and songs. At the same time, Celina Pereira developed numerous musical works and collaborations with artists from various points and musical styles of the Lusophonia, thus being truly an activist and builder of the permanent cultural dialogue between the Cubo-Verdian and Portuguese popular musical cultures. True ambassador of the morna, he was particularly committed to the candidacy presented with UNESCO for the recognition of the morna as an Immaterial Heritage of Humanity, and was one of the first to encourage its classification and elevation in 2011. The recognition of their dedication to culture was transversal and common to the various places and peoples it marked. In 2003, he was thanked by President Jorge Sampaio with the Order of Merit for his work in the area of education and culture, having received in 2007 the Volcano Medal of 1. the Degree, awarded by the President of the Republic of Cape Verde. In April 2019, the presentation of his album Areias Mornas de Bubista became a celebration of friendship and homage to Celina Pereira, with artists from Cape Verde, Portugal and Brazil, in the presence of Portuguese and Cape Verdean authorities, in which the Assembly of the Republic was present. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Celina Pereira and addresses to its audience, its family and friends and the Republic and the people of Cape Verde their deepest condolences, paying tribute to a remarkable journey in the cultural landscape of both countries. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u198	I also associate myself with this draft vote of regret and also address my condolences to the family. We shall vote on the deliberative part of the draft vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will respect one minute's silence for these two motions for a vote of regret. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall continue with the other votes. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 771 / XIV / 2. a (PEV) — Saving the House of Alentejo. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 521 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — Change the regime of the solidarity complement for the elderly, making it dependent on their allocation of the poverty situation of the elderly and not on the income of children and ensuring the convergence of the reference value with the poverty threshold. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 567 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Improves the conditions for the allocation of the solidarity supplement for the elderly. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 583 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Conditions of allocation of the solidarity complement for the elderly ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 232/2005 of 29 December ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 659 / XIV / 2. a (BE) — By regulating the activity of workers in the transport, communications and telecommunications sector with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity, ensuring safety and health conditions at work, as well as access to adequate reform to the wear of the profession. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] The general vote of Bill No. 404 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to enhance and protect health professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Let us now vote for draft resolution No 785 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Recognizes the penosity and risk of the nursing profession and recommends that the Government take steps to define and regulate a specific employment and retirement scheme for nurses. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 786 / XIV / 2. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a working group to amend the legal framework for rapid wear and tear professions, setting out criteria for the award of this qualification and identifying an exemplary list of professions with such qualification. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP and PEV.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 118 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of the status of the rapid wear occupation and the risk allowance to the security forces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, PEV, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No 385 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The allocation of a risk allowance to professionals in the front line of the pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 392 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of a professional career as health assistant. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PAN, the CH and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Ms Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is followed by seven draft resolutions on the same subject. With no objection, we will vote together, in general, the Resolution Projects Nos 260 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) and secondary in Fernão Ferro, 615 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 634 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends the Government to construct a 2 school. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the Seixal, 637 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Construction of a school of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles and a secondary school in the parish of Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal, 643 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedures for the construction of a basic school for the 2. o is 3. the cycles and for secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro, 646 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ) — By building a basic school of 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary in the Fernão Ferro parish, in the municipality of Seixal, and 666 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Construction of a basic school of the 2. o is 3. the cycles and secondary education, in the parish of Fernão Ferro. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] The draft resolutions are down to 8. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of mandatory imposition of mask use in public spaces. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and IL and abstentions by BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Now, let's move on to the vote, in the specialty...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u199	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u200	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u201	Mr. President, it's just to say that we're going to deliver a vote statement... [[Pause.]] I thought we were voting together, in general, in the specialty and in the overall final vote, the Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u202	In any case, it is registered, Mrs Deputy. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u203	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u204	It is also registered, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u205	Mr President, I would like to take the floor only to confirm that our vote on Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a, the PSD, shall be abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u206	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to Supplement I, to proceed to the vote, in the specialty, of Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a, PSD. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. o. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and IL and abstentions by BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 1. o -A, presented by the Left Block. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1a Addition to Law No 62-A/2020 Article 3a is added to Law No 62-A/2020 of 27 October which establishes the transitional imposition of the mandatory use of masks in public spaces: ‘Article 3a Free distribution of masks in order to ensure the access of all the population to certified masks, the Government, through public institutions and entities, shall, as far as available, proceed to its free distribution in public spaces and streets.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u207	We shall vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 1. o-B, presented by the Left Block. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1b Repealing rule Article 6 of Law No 62-A/2020 of 27 October is repealed.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u208	We shall vote for Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the IL and the abstentions of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the Non-registered Vice-President Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote for Article 3. the draft law. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, votes against CH and IL and abstentions by BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP, IL and the non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues, the vote against the CH and abstains from BE, PCP, PEV and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u209	Mr President, we call for a waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting complaints against inaccuracies of this bill, in view of its urgency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u210	All right. If there is no opposition, it will be done. [[Pause.]] It is therefore registered and assumed. We will vote for the Resolution Project No. 724 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) - Recommends to the Government to enhance and promote the Coimbra National Pantheon. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] If there are no objections, we shall proceed to the joint vote of two requests submitted by the PAN and the PCP for a vote by the plenary, in the specialty, respectively of Bill No 602 / XIV / 2. a ( NAP) — Clarifies the exceptional arrangements applicable to contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres for the purpose of adopting an interpretative standard in respect of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March and Articles 2. o is 3. that of that bill. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us then move on to additional script II.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u211	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u212	Please, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u213	Mr President, in supplementary script II, which Mr President will put to the vote, two proposals were put forward by the CFP: one to add Article 2 ( 2 ). the elimination of Article 3 and Article 3. o. We ask that they be voted together at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u214	If no one opposes us, that's how we do it. Let us, then, begin by voting on Article 1. the draft Law No 602 / XIV / 2. the, submitted by the NAP. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] We shall vote together as suggested by Mr Bruno Dias, the proposal for a postponement of Article 2 (2). the proposal for the elimination of Article 3. the draft Law No 602 / XIV / 2. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[They were as follows: 2 — The provisions of Article 168a(5) of Law No 27-2020 of 24 July should be interpreted as applying to existing debts on the date of their entry into force, relating to securities due after 18 March 2020. 3 — (Delete.)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u215	Mrs. Members, let us vote on Article 2. the draft law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] We shall vote for Article 3. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] We shall vote for Article 4. o. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No 602 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Clarify the exceptional regime applicable to contracts for the exploitation of buildings for trade and services in commercial centres for the purpose of adopting an interpretative standard in respect of Law No 2 / 2020 of 31 March 2020. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u216	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u217	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u218	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u219	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. I believe that we can vote together on the requests made by BE, the PSD and the PCP for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of Article 3 respectively. o, 4. o is 2. the proposal of Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Before we move on to additional script III, the Bureau was informed that the parliamentary groups intend to intervene on the lawyers by the plenary, each two-minute parliamentary group, if they wish to use them, is not mandatory. I therefore ask the Services to make available the grid at their own times. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u220	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u221	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u222	Mr President, in apologizing, it is only for, taking advantage of this waiting compass, to confirm a sense of vote, which tells me that it would be wrong to register. With regard to the overall final vote of Bill No. 607 / XIV / 2. a, the PSD, the IL vote is against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u223	Do not change the result, but this change is recorded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u224	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u225	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then turn to the speeches on lawyers by the plenary of the vote, in the speciality, of the article of the Proposal for a Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a. Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are already several episodes in which the Government announces measures of economic and social response to the COVID-19 pandemic, but either does not implement them, or it delays irremediably in its implementation, or then we have come to discover that the universe of recipients of these proposals is much lower than the one announced by the Government. They all remember the issue of management partners, individual entrepreneurs on a simplified basis, among others. And it is not by chance that Portugal is the penultimate country of the European Union in terms of support, all the others are in front of us. Why? Because the ads are many, but the realisation is little. As for commercial income, what's going on is no different. What did the government say? He said he did not approve a proposal from the Social Democratic Party, which was presented during the discussion of the Budget, because he would submit a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic. She presented it to the House, but she was dismissed from the deeply lost initiatives which the government at the same time announced. And you did it to frustrate the debate in the Assembly of the Republic, but it is not known until today that this decision has been taken in the Council of Ministers. What comes out of here? The government announces one thing, but it does not, and when we choose to bring a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic to take the form of a law that the government has announced, the PS will lead to our proposal. Now, the government does not do and the PS does not admit that the Assembly of the Republic does. We therefore advocate this rule so that it may be possible for those support, which is announced in all circumstances by the Government of the Socialist Party, to be approved and supported by restaurants, shops, those who are with great losses and who are seeing their legitimate expectations broken down by a government that has corroborated trust, and who is committed to not fulfilling proposals that it publicly assumes that it would do so. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u227	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 4 - C / 2020, adopted in April, instituted income support by IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) for persons with income breaks exceeding 20 % and an effort rate exceeding 35 %. We know that there are people who have not had access to this support by a black person — in fact, most of the families who have not access to support, about 55 %, were due to the lack of expected income breaks of more than 20 %. We know that those who rent usually have lower incomes and we also know that Portugal is the country with the highest income breakdown in the lowest incomes and that of some 700 000 private leases, only 3000 have requested support according to the latest available data. However, the United Nations ( United Nations ) rate of effort is 30%, and it is in this sense that the Left Block is advocating this proposal for support within the framework of the IHRU to be extended not only for people who have income breaks equal to 20 %, but not only for 20 %, but also for people with a 30 % rate of effort, since Portugal also commits itself to UN measures and within the framework of the UN itself, there is a recommendation that the rate of effort not be too much or more than 30 %. This proposal is therefore more than just. at this moment, this support is a scrap of what could have been and it seems essential - that it becomes to have a larger component and may be a large measure, a tool with greater scope and capacity to respond to the needs of the people who are currently losing their incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u229	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I asked for the floor to welcome the PSD initiative, because it is a fair, correct measure and that goes to meet the Socialist Party’s intention — I do not know whether the Socialist Party is in the government, if the Socialist Party is in the parliamentary group! Is that what you're talking about? There's a PS that doesn't do and the other one won't let do. I mean, we have a confusing PS here. On December 18, last Friday, in this same plenary, the Secretary of State for Trade, Services and Consumer Defense assumed that the Government intends that full support for non-residential income may also work as the Support Program. So let that support come! There's plenty of support to be lost! What the CDS has said for many months is that there is an urgent need for full support, because what the government has done is to push businesses precisely for indebtedness, that is, the government says "there are credit lines here, you divide yourselves". This morning, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, we heard entrepreneurs in the event area saying: "Well, they created a line of credit, we divided ourselves into two hundred and a thousand euros. But we have some problems: we have a problem with the pandemic, we have a problem because we do not look, we have a problem because we do not have activity and now we have a third problem, which is debt.” Therefore, I would like to welcome the PSD for this initiative and strangely that the Socialist Party does not make such support really viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u231	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has always been working on solutions for both housing rental and commercial lease. And I remember that, for example, the last proposal on housing rental, to prevent termination of contracts, had votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u233	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u234	That's right, yes, sir! We understand what the cost for families and the cost for the crisis means. Solutions have been presented over this period. The proposed law prevents termination of contracts, prevents both residential and commercial contracts from being suspended by the end of June, and also prevents mortgages. Obviously, we are always working on new solutions. However, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party may raise more difficulties in the application of the bill. The Government has put forward a proposal allowing up to 50 % in support of income. The PSD Member shall submit data which are impossible to establish. According to the PSD proposal, it is impossible for the Tax Authority to have the data closed in time. The regulation proposed by the PSD makes the proposal impossible. That's why, sirs. Members, the proposal of the Social Democratic Party is not possible, because it tries to copy a proposal from the Government, preventing its application, to the extent that it makes it difficult to implement it in paragraphs 3 and 4. Everyone knows that the Tax Authority only has data closed at the end of January and thus is impossible to apply at the beginning of the year. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Therefore, the PSD proposal, instead of solving the problems, prevents the support it wants to create. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u235	It's outrageous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u236	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal for an amendment which the CFP has proposed to the plenary in this legislative process has to do with an issue which has now been mentioned, which is that of the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of tenants. There are a number of situations that cannot happen today because there is a regime in force that ends at 31 this month and that will be extended by the end of the first half of 2021. In other words, there can be no expiry of housing and non-residential leases unless the tenant does not oppose termination; there can be no denunciation of contracts on the part of the landlord or the revocation or opposition to the renewal of contracts in accordance with the housing or non-residential lease. In the CFP's view, maintaining this regime for another six months is clearly insufficient. We must give stability, predictability and consistency to the way families and businesses look at the period approaching in 2021, not only for the first half, but, knowing that the worst can not be said to be overcome, there must be predictability and security for tenants, for families, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and in this sense that, as we have proposed since the beginning, we must point out that the period of effectiveness and duration of this transitional regime is the year of 2021 and not only the first half. That is the meaning of the CFP's proposal, and that is what we put to the consideration of the plenary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u238	Mr. André Ventura has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard everything from the Socialist Party, but today we hear the top of the top, which is "do not think about the proposal; the reason is simple, is that the data of the Tax Authority are not closed in time. That’s why! It is because there are no regulations and because the data of the Tax Authority are not closed in time! [[Protests from PS Hugo Costa.]] No, it's not because the PS promised full support and did not grant them, it's not because it promised a solution and gave more debt, with credit requests on credit requests, which no longer do than throw a sector already on fire even in the middle of the fire, it's not by the Tax Authority, nor by the lack of regulation... It's due to lack of political courage that these measures are not approved here. We have sectors in which more than 50 % do not pay rents three months ago. More than 50%! And what does the government do? He says he sends it to the House, then the House sends it to the government and we keep waiting for a solution. We have sectors that, only in the last month, have not been able to pay a single benefit! And what does the government do? Send to the Assembly, which sends to the government and we wait. Today, the PS doesn't have an excuse. You have the chance, in this House, to vote on the one who is the possible balance of powers and interests to safeguard those who rent and also those who hold the properties for rent. Being on the left is also to defend those who are fighting for the economy, whether they are owners or tenants, because it was them who in recent years have contributed to this economy being what it was. Therefore, Mr Hugo Costa, I do not know whether it is the Tax Authority or whether it is the regulation, but today they have the chance to comply with what Antonio Costa said, that is to say to help the restoration, to help the tenants is to save the country. Today, let's look at you and your bench and see how you're going to vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u240	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals by the plenary, starting with the vote on the proposal by the CFP to amend Article 8 ( 1 ). the Law No 1 - A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions against the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Without prejudice to paragraph 4, they shall be suspended until 31 December 2021: (a) [...].]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u241	We shall now vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 8 ( 3 ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions against the CH and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The provisions in the previous paragraph apply to income due in the months from October to December 2020 and from January to December 2021.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u242	The vote on the proposal submitted by BE was followed by an amendment to Article 3 ( a ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 3. that of the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CH, IL and non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In the case of residential leases, this law shall apply where:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u243	We shall then vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 3 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues]] [[(b) the rate of effort of the household aggregate of the leaser, calculated as a percentage of the income of all members of that aggregate for payment of income, whether or not to become or more than 30%; or (c) [...].]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u244	We now turn to the last vote by the plenary, the vote on the PSD proposal for an addendum to Article 8. o-C to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 4. o Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ). The CFP has requested that the vote of paragraphs 1 and 2 as a whole be broken down. Let us therefore vote on these numbers of the proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PS and abstentions from CH, IL and non-registered MP Cristina Rodrigues.]] [[These are the following: 1 — Renters who, in 2020, suffered a bankruptcy between 25% and 40% will receive a loss of fund support equivalent to 30% of the income value, with a limit of 1,200.00 per month. 2 — Renters who, in 2020, suffered a bankruptcy of more than 40%, will receive a substantial loss of value equivalent to 50% of the value of the income, with a limit of 2,000.00 per month.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u245	We now vote on paragraphs 3 and 4 of the same proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes in favour of the PSD, CDS-PP and PAN and abstentions from BE, PCP, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered Members Cristina Rodrigues and Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[They were as follows: 3 — The support given in the previous paragraphs will be given to the tenants in two benefits during the first half of the year of 2021, the first being delivered until 31 January and the second until 30 April. 4 — The amounts received in lost funds shall be affected by the total or partial payment of income due during the year of 2021 and the leasers shall demonstrate this on a monthly basis to the competent authority, subject to the immediate termination of the support provided for in this Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u246	We move on to the final overall vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing on the Proposal for a Law No 64 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts, under the COVID-19 pandemic, and to the Bill No 596 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — Expands the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants ( 7. the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues.]] Mr. João Paulo Correia, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u247	Mr President, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, it is appropriate to request a waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of the final text we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u248	All right, Mr. Deputies. You have the word of Mrs. Secretary Sofia Araújo, to account for some file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Bills No. 606 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Approves the legal regime of declassification of contracts or other documents which compromise the State or other entities within the budgetary perimeter in key sectors, which falls to 5. the Commission, 607 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Renewal of mandatory imposition of mask use in public spaces, 608 / XIV / 2. a ( PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, and PEV ) — Extraordinary entry into the parliamentary career of workers of public interest initiated before the entry into force of Law No 23 / 2011 of 20 May, which provide functions corresponding to the career of parliamentary support technician, and 609 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Basics of Climate Policy Act, which falls to 11. the Commission. Parliamentary Appreciation No 36 / XIV / 2 also entered. a ( PSD ) — Decree-Law No 102 - D / 2020 of 10 December approving the general waste management regime, the legal regime for landfilling waste and amending the regime for the management of specific waste streams, transposing Directives ( EU ) 2018 / 849, 2018 / 850, 2018 / 851 and 2018 / 852, and Resolution Projects No 803 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — By a fully re-qualified and functional West Line, which falls to 6. the Commission, 804 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the negotiations on the Energy Charter, defend its profound reformulation by ensuring the protection of the environment and the protection of public health, which falls to 2. the Commission, 805 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Creation of the Statute of the Student Artist in Higher Education, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 806 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of the remaining funds of the implementation of the PART in 2020, redeploying them to the transport authorities that need them for their effective high rate of execution, which falls to 5. the Commission, 807 / XIV / 2. a ( Non-attached Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a working group to respond to the growing conflict between seagulls and humans, which falls to 11. the Commission, 808 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government reject the current international free trade agreement EU-Mercosul, which falls to 4. the Commission, 811 / XIV / 2. a ( BE) — Strengthening of the family support component ( CAF ) and extension of curricular enrichment activities ( ECA ) to 2. the basic education cycle for students with special educational needs, which falls to 8. the Commission, 812 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of measures to ensure the possibility of regrouping families and couples of different nationalities, which falls to 1. the Commission, 813 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government changes in the approach to cooperation policy to be integrated into the Portuguese Cooperation Strategy for the period 2021 - 2030 and in the performance of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which falls to 2. the Commission, 814 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Recommendations for vaccination of all residents and professionals in residential establishments for the elderly ( ERPI ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 815 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP) — Recommends that the Government implement measures for monitoring, depolating and valuing the Ferreira River and its tributaries, which fall to 11. the Commission, and 816 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government conduct a strategic environmental assessment for mining, which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u250	Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo, I now ask you to report to the Members who were present at this session by video conference.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u251	Mr President, I should like to inform you that you have been present by videoconference at this plenary meeting: Mr Carlos Pereira, Mrs Marta Freitas and Mr Olavo Câmara of the PS Parliamentary Group ; Mrs Ilidia Quadrado, Mr Paulo Moniz, Mrs Sara Madruga of Costa and Mr Sérgio Marques of the PSD Parliamentary Group ; and Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the PS, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PS, and Mrs Ophelia Ramos of the PS, who are in isolation from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-22.u252	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall also take note of the agenda for the next plenary meeting, which will take place on 6 January, Wednesday. of the first point is the presentation and discussion of the Report on the Implementation of the State of Emergency Declaration from 9 to 23 December 2020. In the second point, we will have a debate on the request for the renewal of the state of emergency. Thirdly, we will appreciate Petition No 68 / XIV / 1. a ( José Miguel Correia de Freitas Salgado da Cunha et al.) — Against the elimination of the improvement of the final classification of the discipline by examination. At the fourth point, there will be a joint discussion of Petition No 85 / XIV / 1. a (António Ricardo Diegues da Silva et al.) — Masks for all-Required Use of Face Mask in the Community and Resolution Projects Nos 380 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By the immediate distribution of masks to all security forces, private security and prison guards and 384 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — Due to the obligation to use protective masks in supermarkets during the pandemic. We have thus reached the end of this session and also of this quarter of our work. It has been a very difficult time in the lives of all of us, but we must never forget that, despite everything, we are very privileged in relation to the population outside this House, especially the poorest, the sickest and the elderlyest and also the youngest who do not have permanent employment contracts and who have suffered a lot. This was, unfortunately, a fourth quarter of the year that we weren't expecting when we arrived here next summer. In any case, with the vaccine and with the prospects that open up from European Union support to the European Union, that we are part of two ways, such light at the bottom of the tunnel now seems to be clearer and not a train in the opposite direction. I therefore think that we can look at the year 2021 with more hope and more confidence. Above all, I would like to thank all the Members, the parliamentary groups, the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, the ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, Security and Authority Agents all the work they have had here in the last quarter of the year, waiting for them to come there from January 2021, much better times. Thank you all very much, Merry Christmas and even for the year. [[General applause.]] The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 27 minutes.]]
