ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the Authorities to open the gallery doors to the public. Today, as you know, two debates are on the agenda, the first of which is with the Prime Minister and the second preparatory session of the next European Council, also with the participation of the Prime Minister. Meanwhile, Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will do the favor of disseminating several ads. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft Law No 33 / XIV / 1 was not admitted by Mr President. a (Citizens) — Establish the 16th of May as the 'Day of the Active Portugal'. They entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the following bills: No. 201 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Excludes the entities of the National Health Service from the scope of the Commitments Act ( fifth amendment to Law No 8 / 2012 of 21 February and fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; No 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code by revising the system of penalties applicable to pets, which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May 2013 which falls to 1. the Commission ; No 204 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates the Committee on the Development of the Interior and the Rural World, which falls to 7. the Commission, in connection with 11. a and 13. a Commission ; No 205 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 3 / 2010 of 5 January, extending the prohibition on the collection of charges by the provision of payment services and the conduct of transactions to transactions carried out through digital applications, which falls to 5. the Commission ; point 206 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The sixth amendment is made to the minimum banking services scheme, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking customers, which falls to 5. the Commission ; point 207 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the cancellation and reversal of the merger process of the National Railway Network — REFER, E.P.E. with EP — Estradas de Portugal, SA and its transformation into an anonymous society with the name Infrastructures de Portugal, SA, which goes down to 6. the Commission ; point 208 / XIV / 1. a ( NAP) — Promotes the reduction of packaging waste and the increase in the recycling rate, which falls to 11. the Commission, in connection with 6. the Commission ; and No 209 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of any commissions, expenses or charges in cases where a customer service is not effectively provided by credit institutions ( first amendment to Law No 66 / 2015 of 6 July ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, which I welcome, as well as the fulfilment of all the members of the Government present. The format of today's debate is as provided for in Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. First of all, I have the floor to ask your questions, Mr Rui Rio, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, the debate on the State budget was basically marked by two themes — it is a truth — that of energy VAT and that of the Lisbon Metropolitan. The issue of energy VAT has already been debated and I therefore believe that there are conditions for people to understand what has happened. But with regard to the Metropolitan of Lisbon, I believe that this is not exactly the case, not so much because of the technical choice by line, in which I am not going to get into so much because of the competence or not of the Assembly of the Republic to do so — the Government or the PS say they want to appeal to the Constitutional Court, which will say that they are going to resort to their justice, but because of a matter which is completely dark and nobody understands, which has to do with the following: you accuse Parliament of having adopted a rule in the sense of the closure of the so-called 'circular line' and, in doing so, the country can lose Community funds. in the first phase, they said that the country lost EUR 200 million and such million of Community funds, which is the overall value of the work; in the second phase — and these phases were going from half an hour to half—, it lost, except error, EUR 83 million of Community funds, which was the money allocated to that work; then there were also declarations that nothing was lost, because money — i.e. EUR 83 million — could be allocated to any other work under the same programme or under any other programme. Honestly, it seems to me that neither the Members, nor the Portuguese, understood. In other words, Parliament's decision endangers 83 million or 200 million, or how much is it, from Community funds or does not put them in danger, because they can be allocated to other work? Oh, my God! So the first question that I ask the Prime Minister of this government very clearly is the following: where do we stand? After all, Parliament's deliberations endanger the use of money from Community funds and, if so, what is the value of this money? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u5	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u6	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I would not have seen that the State budget for 2020 had, for the opposition leader, been marked...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u7	Which leader of the opposition? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u8	The PSD leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u9	... by the question of a line of the metropolitan of Lisbon. He admitted that he considered that he had been marked by being the first Budget in which the solidarity complement for the elderly will converge to eradicate poverty among the elderly, by the exemption of the IRS in the first three years of activity for young people at the beginning of professional activity,... [[PSD protests.]] [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... by having the first budget surplus in 50 years... Finally, I have imagined several reasons, but with all honesty, I see that, after having worried about the EUR 590 million you have been looking for with the Minister of Finance, now your concern is with a line of the metropolitan of Lisbon. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Rui Rio, of course, the Government is awaiting the final drafting of the State budget and its assessment by the President of the Republic, but there is one thing I can assure you: the Government considers that it is its exclusive competence to define the metro lines and to implement them...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u10	All right! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u11	...and this line will be executed with the funds that are restricted to it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u12	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u13	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I did not say that for me the budget was marked by energy VAT and the metropolitan line. For me, it was marked by an increase in the absolutely enormous tax burden... [[PSD applause.]] ... and it was effectively marked by the mystery of the 590 million euros that you, Mr. Prime Minister, say it's a change, but that, to me, it's money. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u14	The answer that Mr Prime Minister has given has nothing to do with my question, and I am therefore returning to him: does this deliberations of the House of the Republic endanger the use of 83 million or 200 million or anything? This is the question that the Portuguese want to know, regardless of all the others. So I ask a specific question: does it or does it not endanger this use? In other words, Portugal may or may not lose money from the European Union, since the line is suspended – it is not said that it is not done – for a year? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u15	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u16	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, for now, the line is not suspended nor the work is suspended; on the contrary, everything is developed in total normality. Secondly, if it were to be suspended, one thing would be certain: the 83 million Community funds could not be allocated to another objective other than the Operational Programme for Sustainability and Efficiency in the Use of Resources and, taking into account the timetable for implementing Community funds, this would imply a deadline for its use. The possibility, which I have also heard some defend, rather than being allocated to this line, to be allocated to another line is completely impractical, because it is materially impossible to carry out the project, contests, work and payments in good time to take advantage of this money. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Therefore, if the option, as some have seemed to defend, is to stop spending this money on this line and spend it on a line for Loures, on a line for Alcantara or on a line for any other place, this is materially impossible within the time limit of use, which, as you know, is subject to rule N + 3. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u17	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u18	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there is therefore a fact that the role that Mr Environment has recently given to Mr Prime Minister and that has led him to give the answer that he has given me has nothing to do with what Mr Environment Minister has said publicly, misleading the Portuguese,... [[PSD applause.]] ... when he said that what the House decided, purely and simply, led to the non-use of the money. What Mr. Prime Minister now says is that he eventually leads to the non-use of money on a Lisbon metro line, but Portugal may continue to use money on any other project. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u19	And Mr Siza Vieira — who is shaking his head, saying no — has said publicly the opposite of what Mr Siza Vieira said, saying what Mr Prime Minister has now said. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, you must understand, though I have already understood. And what I understood was that the Minister for the Environment has failed the truth, as it is now said, because it would have been lied to in the past. Choose the expression — Minister, excuse me for looking at that guy... — but what is true is not true. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, there is still another question, which has to do with the following: it has also been said that Parliament's decision led to the payment of compensation, because of expropriations that were made and that would not now be used, that is, the government would have to return the land, but would not receive what it paid for, because that would give rise to compensation. The question that I put, very concretely, is this: has there already been some expropriation or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u20	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u21	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, on the details that concern you, I recommend that you read the statement that Mr. Minister of Planning issued on 10 February, which in point 3 states exactly the following : « Indeed, this possible alternative project will no longer be feasible within the framework of the PT2020, given the complexity and degree of maturity required for such an initiative ». But, Mr Rui Rio, what should be asked about is the following: this circular line has been approved since 2008 ; there have already been several governments and all have defined as priority the realization of this circular line ; for this circular line millions of euros have already been spent on drawing up projects,... [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] ... the expropriation proceedings have already been initiated and the tenders have already been launched; and when everything is launched and there is a Community money negotiated for this line, which has been negotiated not by the current government, not by the previous government, but by the previous government,... [[PSD protests.]] ... i.e. by a government chaired by the PSD and the CDS, it is now 25. the time, which you think we will call into question the implementation of a line, whose funds cannot, in fact, be used to finance another alternative line! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u22	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Minister of Planning, Nelson de Souza, came to say exactly the opposite of what Minister Matos Fernandes said, who came to say that the 83 million euros of the subway would be usable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u24	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u25	He has a second intervention in which, in practice, we can say "Mr. Prime Minister comes to deny the truth, because he had spoken the truth and then said that it was not so much what he had said. Therefore, using a searchable Portuguese, we can say that you have denied the truth! But my question is not that; it is to know whether there is already any expropriation or not. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u26	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u27	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I cannot tell you in particular whether there is any expropriation. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u28	There's a set of things I can say,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u29	Not many!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u30	... and Mr Rui Rio, if you would stop for a second to reflect, I would also say it with certainty. First of all, the country must have the capacity to make decisions and to implement the decisions it makes. These decisions are not for my government, for any government, or for any other government ; they are structural works for decades. There's a time to discuss, there's a time to study and then there's a time to decide. And, after the decision has been taken, we must execute, Mr! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, regarding the circular line, time passed for the study, debate, reflection. We're in execution time, and that's what we're going to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u31	Mr Rui Rio, from the PSD, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u32	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I immediately began by saying that I am not going there, i.e., that I am not technically discussing the merit of the line, because that is not what I bring here. In essence, what I bring here is the question of knowing something very important, whether it is about the metro file or any other file: whether the government is telling the Portuguese or whether the government is lying. That is the bottom line! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister said « I do not know if there was any expropriation». I accept that answer. The Prime Minister doesn't have to know! But if Minister Matos Fernandes recently passed you a little paper to give you an answer, I wonder if you don't have another little paper to pass to Mr Prime Minister telling you whether or not there was any expropriation. [[PSD applause.]] That's what I'd like to know! What we need to know is whether or not there was expropriation. And the fact that there is no paper from Minister Matos Fernandes for Mr Prime Minister to say whether or not there has been, leads me to conclude, again, the same thing: Minister Matos Fernandes, when he told the country that we had to pay indeminations for expropriations that would have no consequences and that, therefore, the land would have to be returned, I was not telling the truth! He was therefore in modern language missing the truth and, in ancient Portuguese, lying to the Portuguese. That's the point! [[PSD applause.]] If, however, during the debate, Mr Prime Minister obtained this information from Mr Environment Minister, he would be grateful if he could tell the House, and through the House to the Portuguese, whether or not there was expropriation. It is that if there has not yet been any materialized expropriation, the demining that has to be paid is zero, because no money has been received either. That is what is almost clear here at 100 %, i.e. that there is no expropriation done. If not, the little paper was there and Mr. Prime Minister would have said 'yes, sir, we have this, this and this expropriation'! My third question has to do with a contract signed by the Metropolitan of Lisbon on Saturday, two days after the State budget has been approved. If you signed a contract to purchase rolling stock for the metro of Lisbon, and only that, nothing to oppose, is perfect! But the news that has emerged — and I would like to confirm — says that the signage of two metro stations was included in this contract, which will only be carried out if the circular line is completed. My question is this: has the Metropolitan of Lisbon, a public company, awarded signage to two stations that were suspended last Thursday by Parliament or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you what I truly think is serious in this whole debate. What I think is serious is that the honourable Member, who is the leader of the major opposition party, here says that he does not discuss the technical issue and that he does not even discuss the constitutional question of whether or not the Assembly of the Republic has the power to suspend the line. I would therefore like to know the following: if you do not have a technical opinion and you despise the constitutional question, why did you vote in favour of suspending this line? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Mr Vitorino asked himself about the following: the construction of this line consists of the expansion plan approved by the current Deputy Ana Paula Vitorino when he was Secretary of State for Transport ; it then passed by the following Government which reaffirmed this priority ; it was then I, President of the House of Lisbon and negotiated with the Government of Dr. Passos Coelho the metro expansion plan, updated according to the country's financing conditions and the expansion priority that had been defined ; it was negotiated the inclusion of its funding in the PT2020 to have Community funding ; and the competitive procedures for the implementation of the project were launched ; only in the project were EUR 5 million and we have EUR 83 million that we can only allocate to this work, and there are no material conditions for allocating this amount to any other. Some of the gentlemen. Members said they wanted to postpone this line because the priority was to achieve the Loures line or the Alcântara line. It happens that neither the Loures line nor the Alcantara line with the words of PT2020 can be carried out materially no longer. We are now preparing the PT2030. A new national infrastructure programme was approved at the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, which is under consideration at the Higher Council of Public Works, which provides for new expansions of the Lisbon metro lines, including the extension to the western part of the city and possibly the extension to the Loures municipality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u35	Anticipate zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u36	Therefore, the question is not whether or not there was a contradiction between ministers; it is not whether or not there was any expropriation that now implies their reversal. The basic question that arises is how a party with the responsibility of having ruled this country several times, with the responsibility of having approved the current expansion of the metro, of having approved this line, of having negotiated the financing of this line, now, lightly, after all being put to the competition, defending the suspension of this line, not wanting to discuss either the technical issue or the constitutional issue. That's very serious, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u37	You now have the floor to ask questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, allow me, before I begin my intervention in this fortnight debate, to express here on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, our total repudiation of the racist attack that footballer Marega has been targeting this weekend. [[P.S., BE, PCP, P.P.V. and MP's not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] I would like to express to you all our solidarity and admiration for the dignified way in which you have awakened our consciences and made it clear, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that we are not hypocrites and that in the House of Democracy there can be no ambiguities in condemning any racist act, it happens wherever it happens or who it happens to. [[P.S., BE, PCP, P.P.V. and MP's not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing Mr Rui Rio's speech, in a kind of prolongation of the debate on the State budget, it may be worth focusing on the issues that really concern the lives of the Portuguese people and the decision taken by the honourable Members. PSD members, through their voting position here, will, and much, negatively influence the lives of those who use public transport in Portugal every day. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is amazing is that, after last Friday, the INE (National Institute of Statistics) has released very relevant and important data on our economy and our economic growth, until today no word has been heard by the main opposition party. Perhaps they are still angry with the country only because Portugal and the Portuguese are better since we assumed governance in 2015, but it is very symptomatic of the discomfort explained only by the disappointment of the PSD about these data. Once again, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures and results of the Portuguese economy reject the said and repeated thesis until the exhaustion, in this cycle of governance, that everything is wrong. The figures revealed by INE, Prime Minister, reveal a convergent economy, a resilient economy and a sustainable economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A convergent economy, because, unlike the announcement of the PSD of the coming of the Devil, Portugal began to grow more than Europe for the first time since we joined the euro, and what seemed unlikely has now become habitual. The year 2019 was already the third consecutive year of convergence, showing a better performance for 14. the consecutive quarter. We are therefore fulfilling our commitment to converge in a decade with the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also the demonstration of a resilient economy because, contrary to what the PSD has said, the country would be surfing a wave of European growth, the truth is that tide has fallen and the argument has stalled. While growth in Europe has slowed down, growth in Portugal has not only resisted, as it has accelerated. It is also an economy that demonstrates sustainability. There is even growth, even enduring, but the prophets on the right continue to say that it will not last for much longer. They say that growth is unsustainable and based on private consumption, when it has come to reduce its weight in growth. In 2017, in 2018 and 2019, what brought the country into growth was investment and exports, building a growth that is sustainable for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Portuguese economy, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is today the champion of European growth and the results disseminated by the INE are not a coincidence or a miracle, it is the work of Portuguese, companies and workers, a country with a path and a strategy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the growth of recent years finds the solid basis for the reforms that we have taken on three pillars that already have results: investment, exports and people. In investment, because in the previous legislation, it increased in Portugal twice as much as it grew in the euro area. This investment is essential to overcome the low levels of productivity and contrasts well with what we found in 2015 : a community framework stopped and without the infrastructures ready to start investing. We found a financial sector to stabilize. That is why, with the reforms made over the past four years, companies invested more, not only because they had more confidence, but because they capitalized on the Capitalisation Programme. The tax benefits we have extended have given us the fifth most effective reduction of taxes to businesses in Europe, having been focused on companies investing rather than on the blind reduction that defends the right. at the level of exports, the investment was materialized in more value added, allowing the fifth best performance of the euro area and the second in Europe of 15, contrasting well with the economic model of impoverishment to grow that the right so much craves. We are qualifying — and we will succeed — to export better knowledge. We promote exports and, in particular, we do it by betting on being more competitive with companies and centres of knowledge able to collaborate and innovate. The reforms of the INTERFACE and Industry 4.0 programmes led to 35 % growth in the revenue of innovation and development firms and the Budget approved here 15 days ago renewed the system of tax incentives for research and business development and established zero VAT for science for another five years. We are betting on the qualification and valorization of people, who not only benefit from our greatest asset. And here too there's a contrast to the right. The difference is huge between those who emigrated and those who increased the minimum wage by 20 %, dropped more than EUR 1000 million in the IRS of families and today negotiates, in social consultation, a competitive and income agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We launched the Qualifica Programme, which has already qualified 35 000 people. We reinvested in higher education, increasing the number of enrolled students by 15 000. We lowered the school dropout rate to historical minimums. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the uncomfortable silence on the right in front of this path can only be justified: that the right does not support that it has been a PS government to achieve, at the same time, the best budgetary results of the country's history and the resumption of economic growth consistent with the European Union's average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's a play, yeah! It is the work of the Portuguese and a country that knows how to overcome their adversity and who refused the path of the impoverishment that the right told him. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, whether you can rely on these numbers as a sign of strength in our economy to achieve the desired development in a decade and thus create conditions for improving life for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u39	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u40	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, in fact, is this general description of the country which explains why the leader of the opposition, instead of looking at the forest, focuses on a small branch of a bush in the middle of the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For a whole year, we heard speeches on the announced slowdown of the Portuguese economy, and when the INE revealed that, in the fourth quarter, we had not a slowdown but an acceleration of the growth of the Portuguese economy, then the issue of the economy ceased to concern the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that although Portugal has once again grown widely above the European average and although we have heard here an infinite number of times the list of countries in the euro area that have grown more than Portugal, when INE and Eurostat have announced that only Cyprus and Lithuania have grown more than Portugal in the fourth quarter, the growth of the Portuguese economy also ceased to be the subject of opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also no longer a subject for the opposition to the issue of external deficit. He says it is true that the economy is growing, that we are exporting more, that we are gaining market share, but that we are deteriorating the external deficit. However, as INE reported, the results also result in a contribution from net external demand to the homologous change in positive GDP in this fourth quarter. That is, they accelerated exports and slowed imports. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also now know, even more rigorously, what is the nature of our imports. It is true that, fortunately with improved family income, there is today a higher level of consumption and thus a higher level of imports. But the truth is that the growth in consumer goods was 1, 2 % and that the great growth in imports occurs in the area of equipment goods, 4, 3 %, and that is the result of the investment that companies are making to modernise themselves, acquiring new machinery to improve their productivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also know that 80% of these imports relate to the aircraft that TAP is acquiring to improve its fleet, its routes and the quality of the service it provides to Portuguese, the Portuguese community abroad and the internationalisation of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we also know, this economic growth, while being supported in exports, remains strongly supported in private investment. And this private investment has increased by 34% since 2015. This is exactly what hurts to the right, which wanted to convince the country that the only way to attract foreign direct investment and mobilize private investment was to maintain austerity policy. We all remember what was said in 2016 when we decreed the first increase in the national minimum wage: that investors would run away, that the investment would fall and that unemployment would increase. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that the national minimum wage has risen 20 %, will rise this year and will continue to rise throughout the legislature up to €750; foreign direct investment continues to increase; private investment continues to increase; and unemployment has fallen sustainably from more than 12 % to 6 %. This is the result of this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not just a matter of having more jobs, it is also a matter of having better jobs. And we have better jobs because last year, the overwhelming majority of the new contracts concluded were endless, contracts without precariousness, contracts that give confidence and security and that mean better quality in employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This path of reducing unemployment and combating precariousness was, at the same time, accompanied by an effective improvement in the net income of families. Last year, gross income increased by 2, 7 % compared to 2018, in a year when inflation was 0, 3 %. This means that, effectively looking at the forest, what we see is an economy that is growing more, which is creating more jobs, which is creating better jobs and with better income and which is, above all, growing in a healthy way, sustained in investment and exports. All this in the same framework in which budgetary consolidation is taking place calmly, without gross increases in taxes, without cuts in pensions or wages and returning normality — normality to the lives of pensioners, who see not only their pensions maintained as updated annually, benefiting from extraordinary updates; and normality to those working in public service, who see, for the first time in this century, reintroduced the principle of annual wage updates, taking into account inflation, so as not to lose purchasing power,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that this year, the process of recuperation of the freezing of their careers is completed so that they can normalize the career perspective in the Public Administration. This is achieved by the lowest deficit in our democracy, the sustained reduction in indebtedness and the firm determination that we must reach the end of this legislation with the debt below 100 % of our gross domestic product, which will continue to grow above the European average and sustain more and better employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u41	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u42	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with this clarity that Parliament needs a voice against racism, which I hope can be extended to all parties and all those who are here. The fact that racist insult has long remained in our country and that being very usual does not make it less dangerous, quite the contrary. The most dangerous is even the trivialization of racism.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u44	Racism is a crime and the courageous act of Marega and the solidarity it has aroused throughout the country are an appeal to action, because violence and racism cannot remain unpunished neither in football nor anywhere. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u46	Mr Prime Minister, it is today the headline of the Newspaper that more than 16 million euros are being prescribed in fines to bankers, the same ones that led those banks that have already taken more than 18 billion euros from public safes in a decade. This is another news that realizes the impunity of an elite with an extensive record of economic crime in our country. In the case of BES, there are already more than five years and no condemnation. Megaprocesses such as "Marquês" or "Monte Branco" are dragged. The same justice that keeps Rui Pinto in preventive prison for more than a year, a decision that has both unpublished and incomprehensible, is unable to produce solid results in combating corruption and economic crime. I would say to you, Prime Minister, that all these are cases of justice and that we must respect the separation of powers. It is true, but it is also up to us to evaluate the laws, institutions and procedures that we must have at every moment if we see that it is not working. There are issues in which the Government has direct and urgent responsibilities, so I wanted to question them about them. Firstly, I would like to ask you about the fifth directive on money laundering, which should have been transposed until 10 January and has not yet been implemented. I know that this directive is quite limited, in any case it is an instrument and it is important to know why it has not yet been transposed and when the government brings the proposal for transposition to Parliament. Secondly, we would like to know whether the Government has guarantees that the Banco de Portugal will fulfil its legal obligations to prevent money laundering, particularly in the case of the sale of EuroBic. Isabel dos Santos has his accounts arrested in Portugal but not his participations, which means he freely has the revenue of selling these shares. This is serious and is a particularly sensitive problem and requires the intervention of Banco de Portugal in the case of EuroBic. The Banco de Portugal has not only the obligation to guarantee the suitability of the buyer, it also has the obligation to guarantee that the seller has and has to have guarantees about the destination of the money of this sale. If there are no guarantees, Isabel dos Santos may place the proceeds of this sale in any offshore or in a company of which no last beneficiary is known and, ultimately, a case where we do not know the origin of the funds can become a case of money laundering even made in the beards of Banco de Portugal. My question is: what guarantees does Banco de Portugal give that it will fulfill its obligations? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u47	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u48	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, of course, will not expect me to answer the questions which I know I cannot answer because they transcend the scope of government activity, protection or superintendence. As we must respect the separation of powers, including that of the judiciary, we must also respect the independence of the Banco de Portugal. We do not have any instruments to make such a guardianship nor do we have powers of leadership or superintendence over the Banco de Portugal. We trust that the institutions will work and that the Banco de Portugal will fulfil its obligations. However, there are two things I would like to say to you: firstly, I would like to remind you that in the assessment that the GAFI ( Financial Action Group ) did in 2017 concerning our internal system of money laundering control, Portugal got the maximum score. It is true that there is a Community directive which is for transposition. The deadline ended last January, but at the moment the diploma for transposition is already in the legislative circuit and it will be this week or next to the Council of Ministers. So, very soon, we will be able to count on this diploma in order to be approved. As for what the Banco de Portugal is doing, I am sure that the Assembly of the Republic will be able to call the Governor of the Banco de Portugal to come here to give the answers that you wish to have. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u49	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u50	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will do just that, i.e. we will call here the Governor of the Banco de Portugal. As you know, if EuroBic is being investigated—and, in fact, we hope that it will be, in the face of everything we know—the Banco de Portugal can even prevent this sale. But the worst thing we have seen in Portugal is that the Banco de Portugal does not act before and justice is slow afterwards. Between the inability of supervision to act when due and the slowness of justice, economic crime has remained unpunished and that is what we cannot let go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u52	Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question on another subject. We have seen some worrying news about the National Health Service. from our point of view, everything should be investigated, nothing should be the target of abusive generalizations, until, when there are problems in the SNS, what we know is that we have to strengthen, protect. This is because, the Portuguese population depends on the SNS and is exactly where there is less care supply and among the most vulnerable populations that the SNS is more important. In the last State budget we guarantee the largest ever budget for SNS without captivating and with more investment. At the end of the last Legislature we changed the Health Bases Act, strengthening the path of a public, universal and free SNS, and that is why, Prime Minister, it is very strange that we see the Government's announcement regarding the launch of a competition for a new PPP (public-private partnership) at Cascais Hospital, that is, the delivery of the hospital to private management.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u53	Now there's Budget, there's no problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u54	Our strangeness is double, because in 2016 the government announced that Cascais' PPP would not be renewed because it did not serve the public interest, but in 2018 it ended up prolonging the contract because it did not have time to internalize the hospital at the SNS and stayed until 2021 — so there will be time. In addition, during this period scandals have only multiplied, as those who are managing the Cascais Hospital send patients to private hospitals such as falsifying data in the screenings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u56	It is therefore unclear why the government wants to repeat what is wrong, when the new Health Bases Act repeals the PPP decree and provides for a new regulation of the National Health Service in which contractualization with privates is accepted only when the State does not have the capacity to respond. Mr. Prime Minister, can't the state manage a public hospital in Cascais? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u57	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u58	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, starting with the answer to the first part of the question, I would like to say the following: in matters of supervision, the Government will renew the proposed supervisory system reform law which, as you know, presented in the previous Parliament and which expired, without having been approved, with the end of it. Secondly, I refer to something that should be the object of good reflection: there is no fatality to be slow. If we look at, for example, civil justice, we see that over the past four years the number of suspensions has fallen 44 %, that last year the resolution rate in the third quarter of 2019 was 84 % and that the average duration of a civil action in Portugal has decreased from 18 months to 12 months in the last four years. So the slowness of justice is not a fatality, nor is it just a matter of means, it is also a matter of legislative architecture and this should make us reflect very well. Why is there such good results in civil justice and there are no identical results in other areas of justice? This must be the subject of our collective reflection. Madam Member, on the issue of PPPs, let us return to the beginning of the previous legislation: at the beginning of the previous legislation, what was included in the XXI Government programme? It was expected that we would evaluate the four PPPs that existed, of the one hundred and such hospitals that the country has, and, according to this evaluation, decisions would be made. And what happened in the meantime? It has already been internalized, i.e. integrated into the National Health Service, the management of the old PPP of Braga, is in the process of internalization and integration into the SNS the PPP of Vila Franca de Xira. Afterwards, assessments were made regarding Loures and Cascais and, in the case of Cascais, the evaluation that was made was positive regarding the maintenance of PPP. Therefore, in 2017, the Government determined the continuation of the steps necessary for the approval of the launch of a new PPP. In 2018, the possibility of extension was authorised until 31 December 2021, in order to allow time for the competitive process to be carried out. What is contained in the current government programme is precisely that there will be no PPPs in hospitals other than those that already exist. In other words, besides Cascais and Loures there will be no PPP. In Cascais, the contest was launched for the renewal of the PPP model and as for Loures, the completion of the evaluation process is expected. This is the political framework and the legal framework in which we have worked and is absolutely compatible with what is contained in the Health Bases Act. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u59	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, I remain unanswered on the two questions I raised to you. On the one hand, when we have the regulations of the Basic Health Law and, on the other hand, how is the State unable to manage a public hospital in Cascais that is the only reason that under the Basics Law can explain that it is delivered to a private person? But he didn't answer about it. Mr. Prime Minister, I have one last question to ask you about another area. In Portugal, there are about 40 000 supervisors and most of them work for companies hired by the State : hospitals, distributions and even courts. The last competitions were won by companies that presented prices below the cost and, in some cases, the result of the price drop was to leave wages to pay. In general cases, these companies are not complying with the law of transmission of establishment by attacking workers' rights, as the Government has already recognised, therefore, we agree on this matter. However, the problem is that companies continue to fail to comply with the law and the question I put to them is: what will the government do to force companies to comply with the law, in particular by guaranteeing workers their jobs and their seniority?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u61	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u62	I would also like to know what the government is going to do to combat dumping in this type of competition, because it is not normal for those working for the State to be working for companies that simply do not comply with the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u63	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the question that raises is a question of general supervision of working relations and that is why we have sought to strengthen the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) over the last legislation, particularly with regard to inspection plans on areas where there is a greater prevalence of precarious situations. With regard to external recruitment by the State of this type of services, we have been working towards re internalizing, particularly finding a good solution for the use of security forces agents whose physical condition discourages the performance of normal police activity and who, by maintaining their link and status, can thus perform functions compatible with their physical condition and with the permanent needs of the State in many of these services. That's what we've been trying to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u65	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, we want to begin our intervention by expressing our repudiation and condemnation for any expression of racism. Portugal is not a racist country but there are those who promote it in Portugal. The anti-racist struggle is part of the history of the CFP, but it is also part of its present struggle, so we spare no effort for racism to be fought and eradicated in all its expressions not only by constitutional obligation but by democratic requirement. [[Congratulations from the PCP, PSP and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]] Mr Prime Minister, a study by the ESC — Center for Social Studies — made public last week showed that Portuguese workers still failed to recover the purchasing power they had with their wages in the early decade that passed, reinforcing what we have placed as imperative, i.e. that the valuation of wages is a national emergency. It is an emergency that requires, as the CFP has defended, the increase in wages for all workers, the appreciation of professions and careers and, from then on, the increase of the national minimum wage to €850, in the framework of the general valuation of wages, with the increase of €90 per worker, whether in the private sector, or in the public sector, as we have pointed out. What we have defended is perfectly comportable by the Portuguese economy and was a stimulus to its modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u68	In fact, I inform the Prime Minister that many of these objectives have already been achieved in many companies and sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u69	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u70	It is necessary to reconsider the inadequacy of the measures taken so far, from now on, by setting an example in the Public Administration, going further in the recovery of about 10 years of frozen wages. As it is necessary to go further with the thawing of progression in careers and in its valorization and dignity. What the Government has advanced in the area of wage valuation does not do justice that is due to public administration workers and is not enough to restore the value of lost wages. Mr Prime Minister, is it acceptable that we continue to prolong this unfair situation or will the Government step out of its steep and rigid position and finally open itself to a solution to the problem in the negotiation with the respective trade unions? With regard to the private sector, will we continue to remain solely for generic appeals or act to ensure that the wealth created is precisely divided and with concrete measures, in particular recognizing that the non-recovery of real wages is also, and much, the result of the deregulation of labour, precariousness and the blocking of collective bargaining — problems that are not solved? Mr Prime Minister, in this matter we must agree that we have much to move forward. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u71	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u72	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, said, well, that, as a result of the unlocking of collective bargaining and extension doors, in many companies and in many sectors of activity, these objectives have already been achieved. Despite the legal framework, the fact is that today we already have more than twice as many workers covered by collective regulatory instruments than we had four years ago. But this also means that it is necessary to continue this journey and that is why we are negotiating a medium-term agreement which has a very precise objective: the recovery of the weight of wages in gross domestic product (GDP) to pre-crisis values. This is, however, an effort for social dialogue that we must make and where the role of trade unions is essential. We have been making an effort, I believe, that tripartite, so that we can achieve these results which are very important to achieve. As you know, there has been a great evolution in the national minimum wage and we look forward to continuing this sustained evolution throughout this legislature. But the truth is that this evolution of the minimum wage has not been accompanied by the evolution of the average wage. And that puts us quite above, when the European Union says that the minimum wage must be at least 60 % of the average wage, not because the minimum wage is high, but because the average wage is low. We must therefore continue this effort, in the context of social dialogue, as it is necessary to continue it in the context of collective bargaining and also through business agreements. With regard to Public Administration, wage developments have been very significant, from the outset, as a result of the defrosting of careers. So this year, we are going to complete this process and, only because of the defrosting of careers, this will mean an increase of 2, 9 % in the total wage mass. Repeat : 2, 9 % in the total wage mass. In addition, last year, we made a specific assessment of the salaries of the operational assistants, placing them - €35 above what was the national minimum wage. The path we have planned will necessarily force a significant valuation of salaries in the public administration as a whole, in addition to what is the mere annual update. But we should not underestimate the extraordinary importance that we have responded this year, with a guarantee of continuity in the coming year and every year until the end of this legislature, this fundamental principle that is the annual update of the salary of civil servants. Mr President, this step is not diminished because we are well aware that since 2000, only in 2009, and I believe that in 2002 there was an annual update of workers'salaries, and it was the exceptions which confirmed the rule. And this time it is not the exception to confirm the rule, we will even introduce the rule. Therefore, what we proposed to the unions was that we should update 2020 and that, at the same time, there should be a commitment to 2021 wage updates according to the expected inflation, ensuring that the government will not increase less than 1 % if inflation is lower and that it will accompany inflation, if it is higher than 1 %. This is a structural change in the state's relationship with its employees and we cannot, nor should we, devalue that change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u73	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the PCP, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, note that if there are no increases in wages for all, it will be unfair and problems will inevitably increase! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, allow me to return to a topic already discussed here, in which we have been confronted with the government's decision to renew the clinical management of PPP of the Cascais Hospital. As the CFP stated at the time, we considered this an unacceptable decision and that at nothing will favour the National Health Service and the provision of health care to Portuguese. And it is all the more unacceptable when there were public inadequacies and unacceptable procedures that over the years were registered in that hospital. Or was it that, in the decision now taken, the procedures denounced at the time were not taken into account?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u76	We talk about problems that occurred at the PPP of the Cascais Hospital, but also at the PPPs of the Hospitals of Braga, Vila Franca de Xira and Loures. But if the decision is a step in the opposite direction of what would be, and is, required in the defence of the SNS, there is a greater concern: that we are about two months away from the temporal limit of the presentation of a decree on public management to which the Government is obliged, following the approval of the Health Bases Act. I would also like to remind you that, on our part, this matter was decisive for our favourable vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u77	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u78	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u79	What I ask you is: what is the rush to move forward with this decision and not wait for the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic of the above-mentioned decree?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u81	Mr. Prime Minister, the problem is whether strengthening the role of private people in health, as well as increasing the promiscuity between the public and the private that these PPPs feed, in addition to consuming important financial resources from the State, still poses serious obstacles to solving the problems facing the SNS. Is this, or not, isn't it, Prime Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u82	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u83	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, in the National Health Service, we have 114 hospitals, of which four were under PPP regime. What we decided to do in the previous legislation was evaluate the set of these PPPs. Depending on this result, they would be renewed or not. By evaluation or by decision of the private partners themselves, it has already been decided that two of these hospitals will not continue to be managed under PPP regime, namely: the Hospital de Braga, whose management is already integrated into the National Health Service, and the Hospital de Vila Franca de Xira, whose management is in the process of integration into the National Health Service. For this reason, two hospitals which are being managed under the PPP regime remain in 114. Of these two, the decision that had already been taken with regard to the Cascais Hospital was that there was a new competitive procedure — not just the renewal of the contract, but the conclusion of a new contract, based on a new procedure. It was a decision of 2017, implemented in 2018. Therefore, we are simply implementing a decision prior to the Health Bases Act, so it follows in its normal schedule.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u84	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u85	I shall now conclude, Mr President. With regard to Loures Hospital, the decision had to be made now, because it had to be taken two years in advance and therefore still in February. Obviously, this does not contradict the regulations of the Basic Health Law, which will be done in the scheduled calendar and whose deadline is May this year, which will naturally be fulfilled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u86	You now have the floor of Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u87	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you and then replying to the PS, who said that I wanted to talk here about what really matters to the lives of the Portuguese people, before giving a speech on a true "Wonderland" — I think they will find only by coincidence traces of Portugal there! — that Mr Prime Minister has hastened to take credit, I would like to speak to him about something that really matters to the Portuguese people. Whoever heard the questions they asked him so far would have the idea that what matters most about hospitals is who manages them. Now, I would like to remember something that seems obvious to me: hospitals do not exist to be managed, hospitals exist to provide health care to patients, those who need them. [[All right!]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u88	Therefore, the priority, as far as hospitals are concerned, is the patients;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u89	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u90	...priority is not the public or private nature of who manages them. In other words, the priority is the patients, not the ideology, nor the ideological prejudices of some parties. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u91	So, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions to understand what the government's guiding thread in this matter has been. It is that, as far as Braga Hospital and Vila Franca de Xira Hospital are concerned, the government has made a very different decision from what it is now making in relation to the Cascais Hospital. In the case of the PPP of Braga Hospital, a PPP with very good results, excellent in some areas in relation to health care, with several studies, requested by the ARS (Regional Health Administration ), by the Catholic University and UTAP (Technical Project Monitoring Unit ), pointing out for rigor and good execution in the resources that are of all, i.e. before a PPP that offered better health care than equivalent or similar hospitals, spending less than equivalent or similar hospitals, Mr. Prime Minister decided that it should not renew and that there should be no contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u92	Want! But you always want to talk about management? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u93	What I ask you is why, in the eyes of Mr. Prime Minister, the patients in Braga deserved less care and attention than the patients in Cascais. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u94	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u95	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I welcome you. I believe that this is the last debate that we will be working on as parliamentary leader. I would therefore like to thank you for the fruitful way in which these debates took place and wish you to continue to exercise your mandate with the garbo and joy that we have always been used to appreciate in you. Mrs. Member, first of all, we do not live in any « Wonderland », nor am I my name Alice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u96	But it seems! [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u97	That is why, Mrs Deputy, I am sorry to tell you, but that is not the view. Now, not living in the "Wonderful Country" does not make us ignore reality. And the reality that exists is this, she likes, or does not like, the honourable Member: we are growing more than the European average and for the first time since we joined the euro in 2017, 2018 and 2019, we are re-converging with the European Union. Yes, this is a big change that I can't help but underline. With regard to hospitals, this is out of the question, the function of hospitals, such as any establishment of the National Health Service, is to treat patients. And in order to treat patients well, it is necessary to be well managed, hence that the modernisation of their management is important. For this reason, in the State Budget for this year and in the National Health Service Response Improvement Plan, which was approved, we not only plan to provide the highest ever allocation of the National Health Service, as, aware that it is not enough to put money on the problems, we introduced two management measures of the greatest importance: one, the generalization of the family health units (USF) so that we can have better primary health care; and another, the introduction of Integrated Responsibility Centres (ICR) in hospital units so that we can have better forms of management within hospitals. As far as PPPs are concerned, contrary to what it may seem, we do not have a prejudice, we simply have a political decision, which is contained in the Health Bases Act and the Government Programme. The Basic Law is, as you know, at Base 6, and in the Government Programme it is said that we will not make new PPPs in hospitals where they currently do not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What happened with Braga Hospital? What happened was that although we said that, being the positive assessment, we were available to make a new one, the dealer understood that he did not want to continue. And thus, we integrated the Hospital de Braga into the National Health Service. Are Braga's users going to be better served? No, they have the right to be served as well or as better, because there is no reason for public management to be worse than private management. That's how we want it. We want well-managed National Health Service establishments to serve the National Health Service users well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u98	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u99	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would first of all like to thank you for your words. It is indeed the last time that, as a parliamentary leader, I use the word in a 15-year debate and I am shocked to know that I found the relationship fruitful. It would have been more fruitful if I had always answered my questions, so I'm going to take advantage of it this time because I already realized that I'm in bad luck. Regarding Braga Hospital, I confess I didn't understand. It is because Mr Prime Minister said that the concessionaire did not want to continue, but when a tender is opened for a concession, it is not known at first who the concessionaire is left, and it is not necessary to remain the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u100	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u101	And as for the people of Braga who have the right to good health services, I have no doubt that they have, Mr. Prime Minister, I have doubts about what to do. Until, I must tell you, I met the Hospital de São Marcos in the time when management was public, then I met him under PPP regime, and I fear that now the results of this decision will be felt. What I don't understand is this: if Mr. Prime Minister doesn't have any ideological prejudice regarding PPPs and if PPP at Braga Hospital worked, well, why did he just not open a contest and let things continue as they were, with this or with another dealer? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u102	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u103	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, this did not happen because of the essential reason that, when the evaluation was completed, on the one hand, there was no time for opening a new invitation to tender and, on the other hand, the concessionaire did not want to change the contract, which was not possible without a new invitation to tender. With no time to open a new contest, what was done was what should be done, integration into the National Health Service, with the responsibility that we now have to manage as well or even better than it was previously managed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u104	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u105	Mr. Prime Minister, but it's still in time. It's just that if that's the question, it's still time to open a contest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u106	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a problem that is overcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u108	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u109	It is integrated and so it will proceed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u110	Mrs Cecilia Meireles continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u111	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is beyond you, but for those who need to go to the Hospital de São Marcos, in Braga, I think there is nothing beyond it and we will still have to go back to this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u113	Still with regard to health, and because not always the most media discussions are those that tell you the most, I would like to leave you some questions about palliative care that are, as you know, care provided to patients in end-of-life situations or in very difficult situations. Of course, the situation of these patients, regardless of government, will always be difficult, painful, we do not doubt that. But it is appropriate to understand what we do to avoid unnecessary suffering, especially to avoid the end-of-life suffering that can be avoided. I would like to leave a few numbers to you, and I would kindly ask you what the government is planning to do about them. In 2018, about 102 000 adult patients needed palliative care, but only 25% had access to this care; about 8,000 children needed palliative care, but only 80 children were able to have access to the palliative care they needed. in a sector that requires 496 doctors there are only in Portugal, 66 ; in a sector that needs 2384 nurses in Portugal, there are only 243.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u114	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u115	Of course, Mr. President. The median time of weekly dedication was less than 45 minutes in medicine, less than three-quarters of an hour. I ask you, Prime Minister, what can the government do to avoid suffering that can be avoided with palliative quality care? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u116	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u117	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, as mentioned in the previous legislation, we have taken a set of measures, since the integration of palliative pediatric care to the exemption of moderate rates, notably through the approval of the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care for the biennium 2017 - 2018 and now for 2019 - 2020. We've done the previous Biennial and we're doing the current Biennial. And that's why, throughout this year, we're going to extend the number of palliative care beds by up to 800, we're going to start 10 units a day and promote autonomy and we're going to extend the responses of home teams. Over the course of this year we will set up more 10 Community teams in the different ACE ( Health Centres Groups ), providing a cover of 63 %. We will open palliative care units at the university hospitals and at the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) in Lisbon. So this is the program that we will run this year, thus giving continuity to the implementation of the strategic plan that we have approved and that we will continue to execute, in order to extend and improve the palliative care provided to those who need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u118	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, of course, wanted to associate myself with the words addressed to you by Mr Prime Minister, also telling you that, for one Member, there is more life than the debates with Mr Prime Minister, paraphrasing what a great Portuguese said.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u119	This is a jealous scene!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u120	You have the floor to put questions to Mr Prime Minister, Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, I would first of all like to associate myself with the words of rejection of racism and the facts that led to Marega's departure from the field, a footballer who rightly spoke and somehow translated himself into the face not only against racism but also against violence in football games. That is something that must call on all of us to bring to this House the debate on legislation in particular. Mr. Prime Minister, every day, at every news in Portugal we find that there is a growing violence. We know that it is a complex phenomenon, which manifests itself in different vectors and has indeed been growing in our society. This society is vulnerable, it is exposed to these matters either in hate speeches or in behaviors of pure intolerance. This has led us to the limited situations of seeing health professionals be assaulted in hospitals in the exercise of their functions, teachers and assistants to be victims of education officers and students or, more recently, of judges to be attacked by the parties in processes and, more recently — in the case, which is not unheard of, the player Marega — of athletes to be offended in their dignity to the point of leaving, and well, to compete. Each of these manifestations closes, in itself, a collective failure, which has allowed not only the rise of feelings of insecurity to be on the streets, either in contexts that I have just mentioned, but also the feeling of impunity to criminals. It is also serious that those who, with their speech, have ‘viralized’ hatred, discrimination and violence are seen by a part of the population as the solution to the problem. in this sense, Prime Minister, because we find it urgent that we stop this hemorrhage which is violence, we would like to know what the government considers relevant and what it is doing in this area. This is because we believe it would be essential to have a national strategy for integrated violence prevention, which accompanies all life contexts, and because we also advocate the need to develop an operational strategic plan that responds to these problems. So we ask you very directly: what strategies is the government available to implement, to ensure a society less exposed to different manifestations of violence and, in particular, racism and football violence, what is available to do?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u122	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u123	Mr President, Mrs Inês Sousa Real, I think we need to have some memory. In the previous legislature, we began to tackle this problem in a structured way, firstly, in 2018, creating the Authority for Prevention and Combating Violence in Sport. Even last September, a new legislation was published, which was approved in this House of the Republic by all of you. Members — with the exception of the CFP and the ENP — who set up a new legal framework, part of which, in fact, will only enter into force in the next sporting season. So we can't always be aware that we're from scratch. We have to start with the memory of the work we've done. So, the ladies. Members have just passed a law, which was published in September, of which a part is not yet in force, and are you already thinking about making a new one? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I think that for the time being, what we have to do is comply with the legislation that has just been approved and put the institutions to work. There was an absolutely regrettable case, unanimously condemned in Portuguese society — at last, almost unanimously condemned in Portuguese society! — which gave rise to this debate. And it is very important that this has been so, because, most importantly, often than what is in the law, everyone is aware that there are behaviors which, however normalized they may seem, are absolutely unacceptable, are intolerable. And the reaction of player Marega in this matter was exemplary from the civic point of view! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what we have to do and what clubs have to do is what is prescribed by law. And what is envisaged in the law is that there are concrete programmes, aimed at their respective associates, their followers, in different ways, for there to be an active fight against all forms of violence and racism. But I must tell you that there is something that is absolutely essential that it is also the sports leaders who are very careful how they usually and regularly address their supporters to their supporters. This is because we know that sport is a passion activity, but if we're going to light passion, we're just risking shooting fires...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u124	No more! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u125	...that, then, are very difficult to control. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u126	There are those who are paid for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u127	There is an enormous responsibility in the way the hate speech, of intolerance, is often fed. I think sports leaders should look very carefully at a pretty exemplary behavior that, in particular, football coaches have come to have to go putting the passion where they should be, which is within the field, and the reason and civilization in the behavior of all those who watch sports shows. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u128	Mrs Inês Sousa Real, of the NAP, continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u129	Mr. Prime Minister, memory exercises, unfortunately, do not arrive when we talk about victims not only in the football context, but in the examples I gave. And we really need to have a strategy and have more operational in the field, so that there is a security culture. Having said that, I would like to talk to you here on another subject, concerning the environment and the protection of quality of life, health and human beings. at a time when we heard, with some perplexity, the words of the Secretary of State for Communications about Montijo Airport, saying that the birds are not stupid and that it is possible that they adapt, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that we are not also. So neither birds nor human beings need to adapt to the lack of quality of life, particularly pollution. That is why I would like to bring you here a subject on which the NAP has been insistent and which is a reality that does not come on tourist routes either. We have heard recently about the option of the metro circular line, but we have not talked enough about the option of not restricting, to whatever extent, cruise terminals and maritime traffic in the areas of the cities. We refer to the ecological footprint of cruise ships and their impact, particularly in cities. At a time when, precisely, Lisbon is preparing to increase — and well! — for example, the areas of restriction on motor traffic, already after more pedestrian and cyclist areas have been announced, it is not clear how such activity can remain untouchable, with no restriction at all. Mr. Prime Minister, we have clearly seen that there is some allusion here to what can be the animal's simplicity capacity. We need to know whether or not the government knows the real harmful impacts that cruise ships have and whether we are even conditioning the lives of those who live here, and then allowing all those who come to visit our cities. If you don't know, I'll leave you with this data: Lisbon was the European port with the greatest traffic in ships. Meanwhile, in cities such as Venice, cruises with more than 1000 tons have already been banned, and by 2020 Italy will reduce cruise traffic by 33 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u130	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u131	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Given this impact, we would like to ask whether or not the government intends to reduce the environmental impact of cruise tourism in our country. It is that, as far as this is concerned, we go on time, not being able to say the same about Montijo. However, we continue here with options of mere environmental makeup.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u132	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point where we agree: it is an act of intelligence that we adapt to combat climate change, and that is also what ports have to do. That is why, in particular, the port of Lisbon is preparing a competition to be able to adapt, in particular, the terminal of cruises, so as to ensure that ships in port are not producing emissions and, on the contrary, can be supplied with the energy supplied by the port. It is an intelligent way of adapting, so that we can continue to have the economic benefits of cruise activity, without having the negative environmental impacts of keeping ships operating in port, consuming unnecessarily energy and, worse, issuing gases that we have to eliminate, so that we can also decarbonise the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u134	Mr. Prime Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u135	I'm done, Mr. President. The act of intelligence is to decarbonize the activity of cruises, it is not to prohibit the activity of cruises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u136	You have the floor to put questions to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u137	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, allow me also to associate myself with what happened with the athlete Marega and which is unfortunately not a single case, because it has already happened in other stages and with other athletes, to say that it is another proof, another testimony that xenophobia, racism and discrimination are going around and it is no longer silent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u139	That is why a serious and determined fight is required to ensure that, in the future, we do not experience episodes of this nature, which are not only regrettable, are also « without but not half but absolutely condemned». Racism is not just out of play. Racism is also outside our constitutional framework, so it must be fought with all determination. [[PEV, dobe and PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, starting now the questions, Portugal, as you will certainly know, does not have specific legislation that protects soil protection, which means that its contamination remains a serious problem. And why? Because the ProSolos law, which aims to establish the legal regime for the prevention of soil contamination, continues to be unclear why it is not published. I recall that the public consultation period ended in November 2015. Having arrived today, almost five years after the public consultation, the country continues to await the publication of a law that responds to a set of problems. It is true that this diploma would not solve everything, but still, it would fill a monumental gap in the legislative plane and could, in fact, avoid cases like those we have been watching. First of all, it was the expansion works of the UF Hospital Discovered in the Park of Nations, where there were soils contaminated with hydrocarbons. It happens that only after the controversy was installed is that both the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) and the CCDR ( Regional Coordination and Development Commission ) agreed to the problem when most contaminated soils were no longer on site. Now, we have the case of the expansion works of the Champalimaud Foundation, in Pedrouzos, which were suspended due to the existence of contaminated soils, but once again only in the middle of the works were carried out the analyses that indicated the contamination by hydrocarbons, without having previously had a decontamination plan. Mr Prime Minister, what I am asking is the following: what is the reason for this impasse? Why hasn't ProSolos been published yet? What about this law and when will your publication be done? [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u140	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u141	Mr President, honourable Member, I can only accompany you in your concern. Despite the effort APA has made to develop atlases, technical guides and recommendations, this law is a gap. The Government's legislative programme for this year is precisely the completion of this gap and the production of the diploma on soil quality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u142	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u143	Mr President, Prime Minister, must I conclude that the government has dropped the law which was the subject of public consultation in 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u144	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u145	It's for this year, then? OK. Another issue, Mr Prime Minister : about 40 workers from the various Polis companies and also from their coordinating office continue to live in uncertainty, because they continue to live in a precarious labour situation, even though they respond to the permanent needs of the services. This is a situation which is contrary not only to a recommendation adopted by the Assembly of the Republic but also to a commitment made by the Government. Publicly, in a response to a written question given to the Greens, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy Transition said: « As part of the preparation of the APA staff map for 2019, the increase in jobs was considered with a view to the integration of workers from the various Polis companies ». Yeah, yeah! It passed the year 2019 and nothing! Now, since the budget law for 2020 realizes the extinction of these societies during this year, it was important for workers to have the Prime Minister's guarantee...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u146	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, it was important for the workers to have the Prime Minister's commitment to integration into the frameworks of the Portuguese Environment Agency, because, if not, we will have to conclude that the answer of the Ministry of Environment and Energy Transition was only conversation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u149	Mr President, Mr President, I think that concluding that it was just a bit of talk is a bit exaggerated, but it has indeed been the subject of a lot of talk within the Government to identify which functions correspond to permanent needs and which generate integration and which, not corresponding to permanent needs, do not generate the duty of integration. This conversation is indeed not yet completed. As you know, this is why it was justified not to approve a proposal submitted by the ENP in the context of the budget debate. The effort we are making is that this conversation can be completed in good time, so that it can be integrated with those who correspond to permanent, effective needs by APA. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u150	It's Mr. André Ventura's turn from arrive. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is somewhat contradictory the version of the « Wonderland » presented by the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, when, still today, as yesterday, we knew that another person died waiting for consultation in Beja, after another in Lamego. So we continue in a "Wonderful Country" that no one understands where it comes from. But I wanted to ask you about this, Prime Minister: today the arrival had access to a debt bill, which is not invented by anyone. You know what this is, Prime Minister? [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a document.]] It is the debt of GNR's light ( Republican National Guard ). The debt of light! Do you know how much it is? It is €700,000 and is at risk of being without light. Mr. Prime Minister, what is the « Wonderland » in which there is no money to pay for GNR light? Oh, my God! Oh, my God! [[PS protests and BE laughter.]] What is the "Wonderland" in which there is an e-mail — and don't say it's a lie, but I'm sending it to your office this afternoon — saying that if the GNR doesn't pay, it's out of light? Oh, my God! So explain to us where the "Waterland" is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u152	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u153	Mr President, thank you very much for sending me. But there is one thing I can assure you: the GNR will not only be without light, as it will continue to illuminate the lives of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u154	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am glad that he plays with the debt of GNR light. I hope you can answer at least this later: is it true that the GNR is at risk of being without light? [[PS and BE laughter.]] I think it's a little serious to play with a situation like this, but Mr. Prime Minister will know what to do. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you this, because I think it is a political issue and not an issue that runs away from the scope of politics: Tanks. Mr Prime Minister, the answers which Mr Prime Minister has allegedly given in the judicial inquiry have been published on the Presidency page of the Council of Ministers. It is known that the investigating judge has sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office a certificate for investigation of possible violation of the secret of justice. We know that the relationship with the secret of justice is not the strongest, but there is one thing I want to ask you: the Prime Minister has already answered to say "I have not been in charge of the facts" — I think, that is what I have read in the press. Mr. Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of Portugal, leads the Council of Ministers and is published on the Council of Ministers page...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u156	You have already exceeded your time, Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, a reply to an inquiry under the cover of justice is published on the Council of Ministers page. What is your political responsibility in this, Prime Minister? If it exists, because it is very serious that this happens at a time like this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u158	You didn't have time to talk about racism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u159	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it strange that, after two days of saying that I was a hypocrite, now, face to face, I didn't say anything about this. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u161	The courage is lacking!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u162	I ask you to continue, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u163	The important thing is that we were able to understand your frontality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u164	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u165	As far as this matter is concerned, I never mentioned what I said in the media. But if you believe in everything you read in the press, it hurts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u166	He appeared in the press!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u167	Just read the Manhã Mail!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u168	...because, in particular, the press spends time quoting you and we know that, rarely, when quoting you, it quotes you, it quotes the truth. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it is good not to get used to taking my words for what is said in the media.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u169	There's the reporters!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u170	On the other hand, Mr President, I must tell you that, on this whole story, first of all, I believe that the secret of justice dies at the stage of inquiry. [[Protests by Mr André Ventura, CH.]] I was, in fact, relieved to know that, at the stage when I disclosed the answers, which were already partially circulating, about this process in education, this process was not subject to any kind of secret. After having seen the questions addressed to me published, partly the answers I had given and even a notification to the Council of State, almost 10 days in advance of the craft arriving at the Palace of Bethlehem, it is very curious that there was a secret. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u171	So he's released!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u172	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u173	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, we have already seen that Mr. Prime Minister today has brought his pink glasses and, in this « nau Portugal», is on the top of the glove, he can no longer see well down to the deck, and he thinks that the Portuguese are not even bored in this way of sailing, in an increasingly revolting sea. Every day, we see economic forecasts that are reviewed below — I am talking about the world. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u174	We see that interest won't be able to go down any more. We already know that the European Union's budget will have to go down to Portugal, and I would talk more about what will happen at the European Council, if I had time in the debate from here to now, but I do not have. As these clouds sink, and because of many juggles that Mr. Prime Minister does, we are growing less. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] We are the least growing country of the « Friends of Cohesion », at which you have been at the summit in Beja for a few weeks. We were what grew less in 2018, in 2019 and we prepared to be what grew less in 2020 and in 2021. The sustained drop in unemployment has ceased and read the issue of the INE (National Institute of Statistics) of December is like seeing a storm approaching: the industrial production index is falling, cutting off the part of energy; the number of new companies being created is falling; the confidence rate of families and businesses is falling; we look at public services and it is better not to talk. In the SNS, in the health that can't wait, it can't wait like the Portuguese who, in Beja and in Lamego, died after hours of waiting in the emergencies. For the crowd, in view of this, we have a pilot who doesn't only have the pink glasses as it seems to know not well what to do. The ex-girlfriends of management are calling you on the day of St. Valentine's Day. You will lose the Immediate Centeno, which is the person that all Portuguese believe to be responsible for the right accounts. It leads a government that has already been born fat and hungry and that, whenever it is necessary to cast a candle, shows a tiredness of death.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u175	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u176	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, pilot of this ship, is still in time to change course. I have here the maps of liberalism that can take us to good port. How can you refuse this offer?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u177	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u178	Mr President, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, I am moved by the concern about the health of the government. I can assure you that we are in good health, we have a well-defined letter in the Government Programme and the firm determination to pursue it. I know that he does not like the Government's programme and that is one of the qualities of our democratic life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u179	And mine too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u180	And yours, too! It is that each of us can present to the Portuguese people the way in which we want to go and I have recognised, in fact, the fact that for the first time, the Portuguese right, for many years, has assumed a liberal programme, which the PSD has always been ashamed to take and the CDS « has days ». Let's see, now, what day we are. But at least it has that frontality and that is very good, because that is what allows the Portuguese to always have a government alternative. There is one thing we know: one day that wants to change government, the Portuguese can look at themselves to do politics contrary to this government. Until then, we will continue, if you don't mind, our policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u181	We are thus at the end of the first item on our agenda. We will now enter the second point of the preparatory debate of the next European Council, with the participation of the Prime Minister, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic, in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. To open the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the next European Council is an extraordinary council, which has as its only item on the agenda the discussion of the next multiannual financial framework, I believe that my initial intervention may be quite synthetic. The proposal put forward by the current President of the Council is a bad one. Firstly, it is a bad proposal for the European Union, because it does not correspond to the level of ambition that the European Union has mirrored in its strategic direction. Secondly, it is bad because it sacrifices the financing of a fundamental policy for the future of the European Union, such as cohesion policy, and also agricultural policy in particular the second pillar of agricultural policy. We do not believe that there is a contradiction between new policies and old policies, which there are new objectives, which must be pursued by all policies. And there will certainly be no food safety and quality without investment in the CAP, there will certainly be no climate transition without investment in the CAP and there will be no sustainable digital transition without strengthening cohesion policy. The sacrifice of cohesion policy is particularly serious because it is the policy that draws the European Union closer from day to day to day and the strengthening of this policy is absolutely essential at this time when the European Union divides itself with the way out of the United Kingdom. That is why this proposal, in addition to being bad for the lack of ambition to comply with the strategy we have adopted, is also bad for the financing of cohesion policy, agricultural policy and, in particular, for the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. Finally, it is bad with regard to Portugal, because, in relation to the Commission proposal, it increases the reduction in funding for Portugal under cohesion policy, as a result of the application of a statistical update in which it seeks to reverse against Portugal the improvement of economic growth, the decrease in unemployment and the reduction in carbon emissions between 2015 and 2017, not taking due account of the severe injuries that still continue to mark Portuguese society after the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing. It is bad with regard to Portugal, because it contains a further reduction of our funding, particularly in the second pillar of the common agricultural policy, and this is the cut we have suffered in the field of common agricultural policy above the small strengthening we have obtained in the field of cohesion policy. It is also wrong to eliminate the principle of external convergence in the area of payment per hectare under the first pillar, which affects a convergence path which had been approved in the previous financial framework and which is essential for a country receiving the smallest contributions per hectare from the European Union as a whole. It is also bad for continuing to have a cut of EUR 29 million in POSEI ( Programme of Specific Options to Face Away and Insularity ), the money for the specific programmes of our autonomous regions of the Azores and Madeira. Therefore, being a bad proposal for the European Union, a bad proposal for cohesion policy and a bad proposal for Portugal, of course we cannot support it in the next Council. I would like to congratulate myself on the meeting that I held yesterday at the Permanent Council for Social Dialogue, having seen a unanimous view of all the social partners around this position and I hope that this is also the unanimous position of the Portuguese Parliament. This position should not be supported by the Government of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u183	Mr Capoulas Santos, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u184	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: As a Member and Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, I would also like to associate myself with the broad national consensus on the rejection of the last proposal on the multiannual budget of the European Union, submitted by the President of the European Council and which has just been well-founded by you. We are all aware of the difficulties in obtaining a balanced agreement and the weight of Portugal in the Council as a whole, so only an intelligent and inclusive negotiating strategy can lead to good results. I therefore congratulate the Prime Minister and the Government on the initiatives they have led and that the recent meeting of « Friends of Cohesion » in Beja is a good example. The number, status of delegations and the agreed outcome document are political facts that the Extraordinary European Council on Thursday will not be able to ignore. The current political context in Europe and the world requires a strong and leading European Union, especially at a time when, for the first time in its history, the departure of a Member State, and with the relevance of the United Kingdom, occurs. It is therefore not understood that the Community institutions proclaim an innovative and ambitious agenda and objectives and then do not make them follow the corresponding policy instruments, from the financial point of view. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Prime Minister, what hope is there that a commitment from this Council should still be achieved and what attitude, in addition to the position of principle of rejection, which Portugal will assume in response to President Charles Michel's proposal. I would like to express my support to you, who, I am sure, is supported by a vast majority in this Parliament, by the Portuguese negotiating strategy that has been pursued but, above all, by the constructive and responsible position that Portugal has taken on for a stronger and tighter European Union in the face of the challenges of the present and the future, more solidarity and more loyalty to its founding principles. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u185	Mr Pedro Bacelar of Vasconcelos, speaking, also using the intervention time of the PS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u186	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union is experiencing a very serious crisis that requires European officials to have a great courage and a renewed ambition. The financial collapse of 2008 - 2009 has launched the European economy in a long recession that has not yet completely recovered. The departure from the United Kingdom, consumed only a few days ago, is another sign of this fragility and conditions the multi-annual framework in preparation. As a result of the economic and financial crisis and the remedies adopted to deal with it, serious social and political problems have emerged in all Member States. In addition to the poor awareness resulting from the inability to find a dignified response to migration waves that cross the Mediterranean and the Balkans, they continue to heal the wounds opened by austerity policies that have scourged, above all, the victims of the asymmetric effects of the monetary union, of the euro, whose insufficiency would be dramatically exposed over the last 10 years. Nationalisms have grown, along with authoritarian impulses, by obtaining an electoral expression that contaminates the partisan systems and which in some governments of the European Union has even provided an abrupt sharing of power with political formations of the anti-European extreme right, putting democracy itself in check. Selfism and intolerance have impeded the development of the European project, continue to threaten the generous objectives that inspired its foundation and disregard the civil acquisitions achieved. There are persistent locks dictated by parochial pettyness and irresponsible myopia. The budget proposal submitted by the President of the Council contains unfortunate evidence of this lack of vision, either by the modest resources it mobilizes, or by the distribution it intends to make. The percentage of the European Union's gross GDP affected is ironic, below the proposed minimums, indeed by other European bodies, and its distribution does not include the claimed preservation of the money allocated to cohesion, which is just another name for solidarity. For this reason, the Summit of Friends of Cohesion, which took place in Beja, has set clear targets for this budget operation, which will still have to accommodate the adjustments resulting from the abandonment of the United Kingdom. Hard and complex negotiations are continuing in the Council and Parliament in the coming days, where the final word will be spoken. Not only are the just concerns and legitimate claims of the Portuguese Government, shared by 15 states that have been represented at the Cohesion Summit in Beja, and that have signed the joint declaration, the multiannual financial framework will determine the resources available in the next seven years to make the necessary progress of the European project viable and strengthen the European Union with the same ambition for justice and freedom that has ensured the most lasting peace in the history of Europe in the last 70 years. Mr Prime Minister, the evidence he has given at the Beja Summit initiative and the efforts he has made with the European institutions feed our confidence that we will be able to take a firm stand in Europe, in order to defend what is indispensable, so that Europe does not meet the challenges it faces and can continue in the generous and open way that has marked its existence so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u187	For the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Meireles spoke for an intervention. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u188	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, the Beja Summit, signed by 15 of the 17 « Friends of Cohesion », concluded that the financing in the next multiannual framework of 2021 - 2027 should be maintained in real terms at the level of the current multiannual financial framework. The PSD can no longer agree because, obviously, it is the national interest that is at stake. But I ask: what does the Portuguese Government intend to do if the most robust countries in economic terms — formerly called 'liquid contributors', now 'frugal countries', always have a change of nomenclature — refuse and persist in their proposals, which are contrary to those presented by the 'Friends of Cohesion'? Will the government take a tougher position, to the point of vetoing the long-term budget of the European Union? Yes, Mr. Prime Minister, because it is possible to do so. As we all know, deliberation is adopted unanimously and, consequently, each country, including Portugal, has the true right to veto. But what we are concerned about is that the summits of the ‘Friends of Cohesion’ — which only started with the presence of government members now, in the last legislature, were not present — do not have great progress. I'd say they're more friends than cohesion. As regards co-financing rates and other EU own resources, Mr Prime Minister, what is the position of this government? In addition to the Structural Funds and their use, let me speak on the 2020 Railway Plan, which was announced by the then Minister of Planning and Infrastructure in 2016. Four years have passed — four years! — and the conclusion is painful, because only 11 % of the 2020 Railway is completed. Of the EUR 2, EUR 7 billion which are supposed to revolutionise rail transport — and, attention, half of which come from the Structural Funds — the financial implementation is only 11 %, i.e. a waste of structural funds! More: only 3 of the 20 projects are finished and, above all, many of these projects are replaced and very few to increase rail speed. I would say that it is frankly bad, that the minister has changed, but the 2020 railway continues to be derailed. The government is talking about trains, but I would say that the works on the railway advance further by caracol. By continuing with regard to the implementation of the Community funds and returning to what has already been mentioned today, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action reaffirmed last week that it is impossible to use the Community funds planned for the construction of the Lisbon subway circular line, and that about a third budgeted, these EUR 83 million of Community funds would be wasted. As we know, the suspension of the metro line of Lisbon was adopted by this House. Furthermore, in June 2019, Parliament had already adopted a resolution on the suspension of this project. The Government has completely ignored this Parliament decision and the invitation to tender has not received any candidature, because it was obviously not attractive, in particular, given its complexity from the point of view of engineering work. Therefore, as we have seen, the competition did not take place due to the lack of competitors and therefore there is no work. Meanwhile, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Nelson de Sousa, came to say that the European funds will be implemented at 100 %. Question : Is it possible, then, to execute them under another operational programme? We well know, Prime Minister, that public investment is not exactly a priority of this government, but we would like to see these 83 million euros fully exploited. And, I would say, the scaffold extends to European energy networks. Why did this government drop 30 national projects from the list of projects of common interest — the so-called PIC — which include gas infrastructures, leaving the Portuguese energy market in isolation? I recall that in 2018, during the II Energy Interconnections Summit, Portugal, Spain and France, with the support of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, provided financial support for these networks, which we are not seeing any progress. Question : Where did the Portuguese Government fail to exclude these projects from the list of projects of common interest? I would conclude by saying that probably by these and others it is that Portuguese growth remains, Mr. Prime Minister, for the second consecutive year, in the last place of the ranking of the 15 cohesion countries, even behind Greece. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u189	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u190	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: The discussion on the Plurianual Financial Framework is once again demonstrating that the European Commission and the European Council continue to not want to invest in Europe's social and environmental progress. The gross cuts announced in the areas of cohesion and agriculture are proof of this, but also the cuts in policies that would benefit, for example, the implementation of the new Green Pact. That is why it is unacceptable for the European Commission and the European Council to now use a strategy for threatening and blackmailing the European Parliament and this Parliament with a new institutional crisis. If this crisis occurs, it will be the sole fault of these institutions, which, in order to continue to promote investment in the militarisation of Europe and the arms industry, propose cuts in the envelope for cohesion in areas that are fundamental to the country. This proposal should not be approved by the Portuguese Government and should be vetoed if necessary. Migrants and refugees are the target of racism and xenophobia. narratives are built that promote stereotyped and preconceived views, which accentuate divisions and stigmatize. The debate on migration and asylum is based on a safe speech. A Europe-fortress, strengthening borders and negation of rights to refugees and migrants is promoted. This is the glimpse of the discourse of humanist values and human rights that came from the past. Was it all propaganda? The refugee detention centres, the agreement with Turkey to block flows from Syria and East Africa and the criminalization of NGOs (non-governmental organizations) who try to save migrants in the Mediterranean, where 17 000 people have already lost their lives in just over five years, reveal how migration management is done. Those who seek Europe are denied everything, including their own refugee status. The response to the challenge of creating a solidarity Europe, tearing down the walls that separate communities, and more democratic for all people living here is the adoption of measures that: promote the humanization of immigration laws, deepening existing legislation so as to eliminate obsolete and discriminatory administrative practices, and allow the regularization of migrants; represent a commitment to the work and the rights of workers; combat racism and xenophobia in order to ensure social justice, thus ensuring the dignity and rights of migrant and refugee persons. Unfortunately, these are not the values that prevail in the choices that are being made in Brussels. That still can and must change. The European Union will adopt the Strategy for Equality between Men and Women. The ongoing debate will define how gender perspective will be integrated into all policies and activities and the inclusion of specific measures to promote equality. Equality between men and women is far from being achieved and the report submitted by the European Institute for Gender Equality reveals that no Member State has been able to achieve the objectives. The wage difference between men and women is still more than 16 %, on the European average, and this difference is markedly marked when reform is reached. Women tend to take greater risk of poverty and social exclusion — starting with unemployment — than men. And there are some more vulnerable than others, because they lead single-parent families, because they are migrants, racialized, lesbians, trans or disabled women. Homework continues to be women's responsibility. According to Eurostat data for 2017, on average 79 % of women perform household duties daily while only 39 % of men do so. Portugal is one of the Member States which has the greatest gender inequality in the division of domestic tasks. Violence against women and domestic violence continues to manifest itself as one of the greatest scourges in societies and as one of the most brutal manifestations of gender inequality and oppression of women. At least one in three women over 15 years of age in Europe has already been the victim of one or more acts of violence. Eradicating violence against women and domestic violence must be a priority that emerges from the role and reaches people's concrete lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u191	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : There is an indisputable issue in this debate, which has to do with the point of departure that is defined for these negotiating processes, in a framework of deep inequality and deep contradictions. What the European Commission and, more recently, the Finnish Presidency have managed to establish the ground for this discussion and for this decision-making process in relation to the multiannual financial framework. In other words, by imposing a point of departure from an unprecedented, totally unacceptable gravity — in fact, with a proposal going beyond the unacceptable — it was only to let the time run to the end with a deeply unfavorable and unacceptable financial framework (and by our country we speak! ) , but that being a little less terrible than it was initially, according to this thesis, even seems to be well—but it does not remain. Here everyone knows that in this process time runs against us: it runs against Portugal, it runs against the cohesion countries, it runs for the interests of the great powers of the European Union. The question is whether the government can possibly agree with this idea that an unacceptable proposal, with some topical amendments and, above all, with this blackmail and the pressure of time, goes to the category of 'less bad' or 'the best that can be done'. It's just that we've seen this movie! Mr Prime Minister, let us be clear: in the previous Community frameworks, what we had with the Structural Funds, in cohesion and in the rest, was and continues to be insufficient, less and less enough to respond to the problems and needs of our country, with an increasing percentage of the European Union's gross national income. And if you didn't respond and you're not responding to the needs of our country, not losing anything would not be achieving a favorable result. We stayed where we were in the picture that now ends would not necessarily be a victory, it would be to maintain something that was deeply insufficient. Now, to accentuate these inequalities, to deepen the gap between those who lose countries like Portugal and those who gain great powers, this, then, requires consequences and demands an attitude of the Portuguese Government to put on the table this non-acceptance of what, being unacceptable, lacks unanimity. With all clarity, the veto of Portugal must be on the table in this discussion. We must not only look at what we receive at least, we must also look at what we pay the most, at the level of the contributions of each Member State, and, in net terms, that result must be evaluated. What is the government's assessment of this result? This is the concrete question that we are asking you: what is the net result of this proposal, particularly in comparison with previous tables? We are not only faced with the question of resources being smaller, more conditional and the management of the structural funds being more centralized by the European Union. We are, above all, faced with the increasingly serious constraints, impediments, limitations to our ability as a country to manage our own resources by the imposition of the European Union itself. In view of what is unacceptable, it is required that the proper consequences be removed in defence of national interest, by a sovereign and developed Portugal. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PEV MP José Luís Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u193	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u194	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government : the last time we discussed the Plurianual Financial Framework, Mr Prime Minister spoke against the Finnish Presidency's proposal, calling for Parliament's solidarity — and he had it on the side of the CDS. The question is now the same with regard to the proposal of the President of the Council. The question is not about the solidarity of the CDS in Portugal's opposition to these proposals. Of course, we also oppose them, because they are damaging to the national interest. The question is how far the strategy of the Portuguese Government has produced results throughout this process and what results it can produce from here to the end of this process. Therefore, we are fully available to support the Government in defending the national interest, but we need to know the Government's strategy to know how that could happen. For this, we need clarification on some specific issues. The first issue, essential for Portugal, is on the Cohesion Fund. currently, according to the latest issues of the Cohesion Fund, we have a 30 % implementation rate. If we compared with what happened in terms of counterparts, that is, one year from the end of the previous table, we had more than twice as much of the implementation of cohesion funds at that time. It is known that this framework has more than one year to implement funds, but nevertheless the level of implementation is much lower. So my question is this: what legitimacy is that a country like Portugal, which fights for cohesion funds, because they are essential to it, is winning with such a low execution of the Cohesion Fund, which obviously does not favour us in this discussion? Then there is the question of the second pillar of the CAP. The main problem of the second pillar of the CAP is the change in the value of national participation, it is the national counterpart from 15 % to 30 %. The question is therefore to know how Portugal can accommodate such an amendment, which does not have so much to do with the amount coming from the European Union but which has much to do with the capacity of having the national counterpart at this level of 30 % in Portugal. Then there is the question of the compatibility of a smaller budget with ambitious policies of the European Union, such as the digital transition and the Green Deal. How will the funds relating to these policies be available for Portugal and how can we know whether or not we will have financial resources to be competitive? Finally, there is the issue of veto, which is essential. Mr Prime Minister addressed this whole negotiation from the outset with an optimistic perspective and therefore always rejected the possibility of using the veto right. Mr Prime Minister, things have gone wrong and, having gone wrong and we are in this position, at the moment, constantly having to show solidarity to the Government in the defence of the national interest, what I ask you is whether the Government of Portugal will do everything in the defence of this national interest—and "all" is not without a fundamental instrument such as veto. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u195	Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : The President of the European Council has failed to fulfil his mandate. After the proposal for a new multiannual financial framework of the Finnish Presidency was rejected in December, a better proposal was expected. Despite the united and vocal position of the European Parliament and the strong communication of the Friends of Cohesion group, which came out of the meeting in Beja, at the beginning of this month, the proposal of the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, is not the same. This proposal is unacceptable and we hope that the Prime Minister will keep what he has said and written on the subject. If we want to be serious and pioneer in the fight against climate change, in the commitments we made in the Paris Agreements, in the implementation of the European Ecological Pact, a global envelope of 1, 7 % of the Union's gross national income is insufficient to achieve the purposes defined in them and even disrespects the positions of the European Parliament and the European Commission itself. At the Brexit hangover, we accept this retrograde proposal means we are on the side of those who want less Europe, less integration, less solidarity and less environmental protection. at a time when the European Union faces environmental and social challenges, to which the instability of the global geopolitical board is added, there is a risk not only of making the European Union fail its own objectives and commitments, but also of relegating it to a second plan in the sphere of international influence. This proposal may even jeopardise the European Ecological Pact, the crown jewel of this new Commission. This is because up to EUR 7500 million for the Right Transition Fund, which is supposed to be fresh money, comes from realignments from other budget headings. It seems like a proposal made to fail—and it will fail. Regardless of the specific values of the Financial Framework, which are much smaller than is necessary, and the importance of preventing the reduction of co-financing, it is also important to change the paradigm of some Union flag programmes. Of course, I would like to highlight the common agricultural policy ( CAP ). The productive and archaic philosophy of blind payments per hectare and of subsidization of intensive industries and agricultural superpolluents has to change dramatically and adapt to the present world. A world that is more sustainable, with real policies to protect biodiversity, to preserve soils, to control water waste and to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And this CAP is all but that. The European budget should not be used to promote highly polluting industries and much less for the benefit of just a few. In conclusion, Prime Minister, we must have the courage to oppose the position of the President of the European Council and some Member States, but we must also have the courage to pressure your European family to reject a bad proposal in the European Parliament. We know that there is a hurry to reach an agreement, but we cannot accept any agreement, not only at the risk of failure with the project for Europe, but also of irremediably conditioning the implementation of the European Ecological Pact. Mr. Prime Minister, can we or can we not count on you? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u197	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u198	Mr President, Prime Minister : I would like to begin by registering the position that the Prime Minister has taken on the proposal for the multiannual budget of the European Union, presented by the President of the European Council, because the Greens also consider that this proposal not only does not meet the needs of the peoples of Europe but also seems to us to be totally inadequate for our country, I would say until it reaches even the national interest. But this means that if you have « legs to walk», this budget will give strength to conditionalisms, to the obstacles that European Union policies continue to face in terms of our country's development. In fact, it's nothing new. This path is not new, because the European Union is still turning its backs on the interests of the European peoples, because its great concern has long since ceased to be the citizens to become bankers and bankers. And if the European Union has already long removed such important expressions or concepts as solidarity from its vocabulary, what is now more a blow to cohesion policies, which will have very negative effects on an economy like ours, in which Community funds play a decisive role. Therefore, accepting a substantial loss of revenue from the European Union's funds and refraining from fighting for a fair financing framework would be, in our view, absolutely unacceptable and, therefore, the Greens hope that the Government will firmly oppose this proposal. The question, which, I think, is the one that requires, since the Portuguese Government has this faculty, is whether or not the Government will make use of the right to veto in this matter. Mr Prime Minister, we even consider that the debate about the financing of the European Union can also be a kind of test of the democratic nature of the European Union. And why? We are faced with three different proposals: a proposal for a budget of the President of the European Council, a proposal for a budget of the European Commission and a proposal for a budget of the European Parliament. Now, as the European Parliament is the only body elected by the Europeans, it would be reasonable, it would be democratic if this budget were to prevail, because it would in fact accentuate the democratic nature of the European Union if we can talk about it. I would like to know, Mr Prime Minister, what this reading seems to you that the Greens make that it should indeed be the European Parliament's proposal to prevail, since it is the only body with democratic legitimacy in the European institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u199	To close the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the fact that it is clear that all the banks unanimously have strengthened the position of the Government that we cannot approve this proposal put forward by the President of the European Council. This is very important, because it is essential that there be an extended national consensus on this matter. Portugal must have a constructive position. We know that this negotiation is difficult, firstly, because we have less than one partner, the United Kingdom, who was an important contributor ; secondly, because the European Union has increased ambitions to combat climate change, finally takes the view of having a responsible attitude of partnership with the African continent, has defined as new priorities the development of its social pillar, absolutely vital so that we can ensure a fair transition in the digital framework and in the climate framework. There are therefore fewer contributors and new challenges, of course, a negotiating and concerted effort is needed. So we must have a constructive position. But we cannot consider ourselves prisoners of time nor accept that time plays against us, because this is to put this debate not in a position of debate of proposal, of counter-proposal, of approach of effort, of seeking understanding of others and of responding to solutions, but in a position where someone can blackmail the other, saying 'or accept or go without anything'. This position is not acceptable in the European Union. Surely that cannot be the picture, and we cannot be prisoners of time. As I said, and quite rightly, Mrs PAN, we want an agreement that is reached as quickly as possible — that is fundamental to our economy — but it is not worth having a bad deal at any cost. Therefore, the rush cannot necessarily be good advisor, so we cannot accept an agreement at any price. We're constructive. We accepted and agreed that it was necessary to modernise the traditional policies of the European Union, increasing agri-food measures within the framework of the CAP, enhancing rural development and less intensive production incentives, valuing the role of the CAP in combating climate change. With regard to cohesion policy, we accepted that it had an important thematic density in terms of climate change, in terms of transition to digital society — and it is good that it is — but on the other hand, to combat poverty, to integrate minorities, to embrace migration policies. What we cannot accept is that there is a global decrease in the amount of cohesion funds and that Portugal is unfairly treated in this context. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why our debate is not between spending countries and frugal countries—we are frugal! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u201	And not just!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u202	The countries that advocate underfunding are countries that do not believe in the European Union and therefore do not invest in the European Union — or believe in the European Union and do not invest in what is necessary — are not frugal, they are furry, which is quite different! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's the reality we're dealing with. Portugal is not in a position to accept lessons from anyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u203	Only from Italy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u204	... on the sound management of public resources. Portugal has made the greatest effort to consolidate the budget in recent years. Portugal is one of the countries which has contributed most to the reduction of public and private debt in the context of the Union. Portugal is the country that is growing above the European average. Portugal is also the country which currently has the best rate of implementation of the Community funds in the present Table 14 - 20, in all the countries of the European Union, with the exception of countries such as Luxembourg, which has a small share of Community funding. So we don't have lessons to learn. And we don't teach lessons either. What we say is this: if we want there to be an agreement, we all have to have a constructive position. It is in that constructive position that we have been,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u205	I don't know if it's not the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u206	...when, for example, we promote the meeting of the Friends of Cohesion. At the conclusion of that meeting, the Friends of Cohesion did not say whether the overall volume of funding should be 1 %, 1, 11 %, 1, 16 % or 1, 3 %. What we said was that, regardless of the overall amount, cohesion money should be preserved. What we understand is that what is needed is in fact that the Council does not act as a factor of division and promotion of institutional conflicts, but rather that it seeks to develop interinstitutional dialogue, knowing that in the end we will only have a budget if it has the favourable vote of the European Parliament. Therefore, the effort we should make was to work between the Commission's initial proposal and the proposal put forward by the European Parliament. And between that 1, 11 % proposed by the Commission and 1, 3 % proposed by the European Parliament, there is a wide margin of negotiation where it is possible to negotiate, where it is possible to work. It is in this constructive field that we put ourselves. We therefore put ourselves in a constructive way, being very clear about our position: the proposal on the table will not have our vote in favour. That is how I interpret the position of all the parties here expressed themselves, as was the position of all the social partners I heard yesterday at the Permanent Council of Social Concertation. We must bear in mind that we are not isolated in this matter. It is true that there will be no unanimity if four countries continue to veto their efforts to have a common budget, but we cannot ignore the position of the majority of States, the position of the Economic and Social Council of the European Union, the position of the Committee of the Regions of the European Union, the position of the European Parliament, either expressed by its President, or by the Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy. Even last week, the leaders of the four major parliamentary groups of the European Parliament : the leader of the PPE ( European People's Party ), the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, the Liberals, the Greens signed a common position, reaffirming that they will not approve a budget that does not meet the overall financing needs of the European Union's common strategy and that contains cuts in cohesion policy and common agricultural policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u207	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u208	Therefore, Mr President, in conclusion, our position and, I believe, not only by interpreting our understanding of the national interest, but also by what I thought was the unanimous understanding of this House, is that we will not approve this proposal put forward by the President of the Council and continue to work so that there is a consensus position which does not give way to the veto of four countries which are not frugal, Mrs Isabel Meireles, they are simply four forretas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-18.u209	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda. The first point is the joint assessment of draft resolution No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the role of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal, of the Drafts of Law Nos. 99 / XIV ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to Law No. 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( Regulations the entry into the judiciary, the training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), providing mandatory training for judges on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and 175 / XIV/1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 ), in general, and also of the Draft Resolution No 204 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — It recommends the establishment of a national committee on the rights of children, in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Children and the Convention on the Rights of Children. of the second point is the joint debate of Resolution Projects No 148 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the timetable for the specific institution of the administrative regions during the year 2021 and No 220 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Preparation of procedures for the establishment of administrative regions. Finally, the third point is the assessment of draft resolution No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, when exceeding the maximum response time guaranteed for first consultation in the National Health Service, ensure users the freedom to access such consultation at any other hospital to their choice, whether from the public, private or social sector. I wish everyone a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 35 minutes.]]
