ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Authorities may, and should, open the doors to the public. We will start this session with a series of warnings, which will be made public by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, to whom I thank from now on. Mrs. Secretary, you have the floor to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Bill No. 8 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Adapts the sanction schemes provided for in the legal arrangements applicable to investment fund managers and credit institution managers, which fall to 5. the Commission. Law No. 175 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 176 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 91 / 2015 of 29 May, allowing the application of the career system to the workers of the transitional staff framework, which falls to 13. the Commission, 177 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 93 / 2009 of 16 April, making the system of allocation of support products more effective to people with disabilities and ensuring faster access to these products, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with the 8th. a and 9. a Commission, and 178 / XIV / 1. a ( CH ) — Amends the Penal Code in Article 274. the ( Florestal Fire), exacerbating the criminal frameworks applicable to subjects who meet the requirements of this criminal conduct, and introducing Article 274. o-B, which enshrines the possibility of replacing the compensation to be paid to the State and other injured by the imposition of Community work for the reforestation of the burned area and / or the reconstruction of the destroyed heritage, which falls to 1. the Commission. Resolution Nos 178 / XIV / 1 were also included in the Bureau. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government requalify the Basic School Dr. António Augusto Louro, in the municipality of Seixal, 179 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Portuguese Republic's link to the 2014 Additional Protocol on Forced Labour, of the International Labour Organization, which falls to 2. the Commission, 180 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By not allocating public subsidies to the media, keeping the press independent and as a counter-power of the State, which falls to 12. the Commission, 181 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the construction of a new primary school( 2 ). o is 3. the cycles) in Trafaria, 182 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By setting up a group to recruit the theatre area, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 183 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By improving the conditions of the Bar of Esponende, 184 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government, before any legislation on assisted drug death, effectively implement the legally provided palliative care network, which falls to 1. the Commission, 185 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By optimising the process of preventing and punishing environmental infringements, which falls to 11. the Commission, 186 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Enlargement of the public day care network and support for families where there are no public sector responses, which goes down to 10. the Commission, 189 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government formalise the establishment of the SAPA assessment and monitoring committee, ensuring that the process of allocating support products to persons with disabilities is effectively simplified and unburocated. the Commission, in connection with the 8th. a and 9. a Commissions, 190 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Jerusalem and 191 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the imposition of anti-abuse standards in public tenders promoted for the hiring of security, cleaning and other services, ensuring compliance with labour law and the legal regime for the transmission of establishment, which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 6 / XIV / 1 has also been included in the Bureau. a ( PSD ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 170 / 2019 of 4 December, which is the first amendment to the Code of Public Contracts, approved in annex to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January, and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 111 / 2012 of 23 May. Finally, I refer to the entry into the Bureau of the Draft Rules of Procedure No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Fourth amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 of 20 August 2007 to regulate the issue of votes which falls to 1. the Commission. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to keep an account of the elections to the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, the National Elections Commission, the Economic and Social Council and the Superior Council of the Magistracy. I will read the first until: « At the 20th day of December of two thousand and 19th, the election was held for the Superior Council of the Public Ministry. The result was as follows: Voters — 209 Votes ‘yes’ — 134 White votes — 70 No votes — 5 In accordance with applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are elected for the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor’s Office: List A ( PS / PSD ) Effective : Manuel de Magalhães e Silva Rui Manuel Portugal da Silva Leal José Manuel Mesquita António Manuel Tavares de Almeida Costa Brigite Raquel Bazenga Vieira Tomás Gonçalves Suplentes : Vania Gonçalves Álvares Daniel Bento Alves Pedro Gonçalo Roque Ángelo. Do not keep on seeking. ” The second until is the following content: « At 20 days in December of two thousand and nine, the election was held for the National Elections Commission. The result was as follows: Voters — 209 Votes ‘yes’ — 181 White votes — 26 No votes — 2 In accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, the proposed candidates are elected for the National Elections Commission: Mark Andrew Bobela Mota Kirkby ( PS ) Cristina Vera Mendes Romeira Alves dos Santos Penedo ( PSD ) Carla Sofia Franco Luís ( BE ) João Manuel Rosa de Almeida ( PCP ) João Tiago Galo Pedrosa dos Santos Machado ( CDS-PP ) Sandra Maria Fernandes Teixeira do Carmo ( PAN ) Álvaro José de Oliveira Saraiva ( PEV ). Do not keep on seeking. ” The third up is of the following content: « At the 20th day of December of two thousand and 19th, the election was held for the office of President of the Economic and Social Council. The result was as follows: Voters — 209 Votes ‘yes’ — 125 White votes — 73 No votes — 11 In accordance with applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, it declares itself not elected President of the Economic and Social Council Antonio Fernando Correia de Campos. Do not keep on seeking. ” Step to read fourth at: « At the 20th day of December of two thousand and 19th, the election of vowels was held for the Superior Council of the Magistracy. The result was as follows: Voters — 209 Votes ‘yes’ — 139 White votes — 66 No votes — 4 In legal terms applicable and in view of the result obtained, the following candidates are declared not elected to the Supreme Council of the Magistracy: List A ( PS / PSD ) Effective : Vítor Manuel Pereira de Faria Fernando Licínio Lopes Martins José António de Melo Pinto Ribeiro Antonio Alberto Vieira Healing Antonio José Barradas Leitão Inês Vieira da Silva Ferreira Leite André Filipe Oliveira de Miranda Suplentes : Paulo Rui da Costa Valério Luís Paulo Elias Pereira Telma Solange Silva Carvalho. Do not keep on seeking. ” I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, for the ability to express, although the noise in the room was permanent. Of course, I would like to begin this session this new year by greeting all Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, officials and journalists, wishing all an excellent year of 2020, with much work and prestige for the Assembly of the Republic, the democratic Assembly, the House of Democracy. Let us therefore enter the agenda, which is part of the joint assessment of Law Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. To open the debate, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I would like to associate myself with Mr. President in the vote of good year for all Members and all Members. Members, stressing that we could hardly start the new year better than with the important parliamentary debate on the State budget by 2020. This is a budget for continuity and progress. It is a Budget for Continuity of Change that we started in 2016, ensuring more growth, better employment, greater equality and correct accounts. It is a Budget of progress in responding to the four major strategic challenges of the new Parliament: climate change, demography, digital transition and combating inequalities. With this Budget there are no setbacks, we don't stay step by step nor change our course. With this Budget we continue to make progress in improving income and rights, in the quality of public services, in strengthening investment, in consolidating public finances. The four years of the previous legislation have allowed us to rebuild confidence in the institutions and in the Portuguese economy: citizens' confidence in a budgetary policy that respects the Constitution; companies' confidence in a budget management that promotes financial stability; international confidence in an economy that reduces unemployment to half and achieves budgetary balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After 2020, we must continue to do even more and better now. We therefore have a budget that promotes more investment, the quality of public services, the improvement of income and increasing social justice, which allows us to pursue the path of budgetary balance and debt reduction. Promoting investment — public and private — is crucial to strengthening sustained and shared economic growth, creating more and better employment and the quality of our public services. The growth of the economy over the past four years is associated with strong investment growth, which is more than twice the euro area average. That is why we strengthened public investment, with emphasis on investment in large structuring projects, which will exceed EUR 1300 million by 2020. These investments will make a fundamental contribution to improving the quality of public transport, the National Health Service and the school network. We have also approved a multi-annual plan of investments in the health sector, an additional amount of EUR 190 million. And we have strengthened the allocation in the area of housing, almost doubling, from 80 million to 150 million euros, the funds to pursue the objectives of eradicating housing shortages and promoting public housing for renting costs accessible to the middle class. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why we have maintained the strategy for promoting private investment, ensuring, for example, that the IRC (tax on income of the public) will fall close to EUR 60 million, helping small and medium-sized enterprises re-invest their profits, betting on innovation or settle in the interior, and ensuring that businesses in the beginning of activity do not see the value of autonomous taxes aggravated in the event of damage, at such an important stage of their course. There is no sustained growth without investment. And the benefits of this growth, achieved with the effort of all, must also be shared by all. This is why it is imperative to continue improving income by promoting social justice and reducing inequalities. The route taken since 2016 has had a very important impact on guaranteeing the dignity of the living conditions of the Portuguese. Between 2015 and 2019, there were more than half a million Portuguese people who ceased to be at risk of poverty or social exclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The numbers speak for themselves, but we also know that we must continue this path. This budget consolidates all progress without any step back and still achieves further progress in the path of social progress, in a context of stability and confidence in the expectations of income developments. For the third consecutive year, we ensure a real increase above inflation for about two million pensioners and we go further in the fight against poverty among the elderly, betting on strengthening the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI), fulfilling from now on our commitment to raising the CIS to the threshold of poverty until the end of the Legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In 2020, we will complete the process of defrosting public administration careers initiated in 2018, reflecting in only three years the progress rights that have been suspended since 2011. And let us resume — very important! — the normality of annual public administration salary increases, which have occurred for the first time since 2009 and only for the second time in 20 years. It is a very significant budgetary effort, which, between progressions and wage updates, increases public service remuneration by 3, 2 %. This is also a Budget that promotes greater fiscal justice, from the outset by updating the minimum of existence, which will cause more than 30 000 families of lower income to be exempt from paying IRS (tax on income of natural persons) as it had already happened last year to 27 000 families and two years to 140 000 families. In addition to this exemption and measures to support young families, the IRS paid by Portuguese families will be down by EUR 50 million in 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the matrix of a fairer fiscal policy, which protects and relieves those most in need, which promotes the competitiveness of enterprises and employment, particularly in low-density regions, through the Work within the Interior programme, and which ensures full alignment with absolutely fundamental objectives of public policy. I am specifically referring to access to housing, where local housing needs to be discouraged in containment areas and to encourage the transfer of these buildings to the lease market.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u6	I am also specifically referring to the protection of the environment, in which it is essential to progressively eliminate tax benefits to the use of fossil fuels while strengthening incentives with the creation of a new tax deduction for the installation of decentralised production equipment and self-consumption of renewable energy. More investment, better income and greater tax justice are only possible thanks — and in parallel — to a responsible budgetary policy. This budget provides, for the first time in our democracy, for a budgetary surplus. This is the result of the consolidation path pursued in the previous Parliament and is also an essential condition for continuing our shared prosperity strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Some wonder why we have to have a budget surplus when there are so many needs to be met right away. A good budget is what ensures balance in the multiple needs we have to respond to. And this budget responds to multiple needs to strengthen the budget allocation—needs in all social benefits, in the Armed Forces and in the security forces, in the modernization of justice, in investment in culture, in the encouragement of territorial cohesion. In short, in all, without exception, the areas of governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this budget cannot ignore this other need which is to release us, in a sustainable way, from the high public debt we still have. over the last legislation, the weight of gross domestic debt ( GDP) fell by more than 12 percentage points — from 131, 2 % in 2015 to 118, 9 % in 2019. And it is our aim to complete this legislation close to the 100 % threshold of the gross domestic debt weight. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only in this way will we continue to release, every year, resources attached to the service of debt to invest where necessary. In five years, debt interest expenditure decreased by EUR 2 billion. I repeat: in five years, debt interest expenditure reduced EUR 2 billion! A savings that enables us to strengthen investment in public services and reduce our exposure to the risk of a new international crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this is the time to make this effort, because it is at this stage of economic growth, strong job creation, improvement of income and reduction of inequalities that we must save the resources that we can need when a new economic cycle requires us to have an anticyclical policy. It is now that we must look, even more and more confidently, at our future. And it is at this time that we must act, take the right decisions, the right public policies and the appropriate fiscal instruments to safeguard the best future of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] No, these are not European Union taxes. It is our duty to prepare for the future and to ensure that the Portuguese do not have to bear the cost of a financial and economic crisis that leaves profound marks in the lives of all those who have lost their jobs, who have seen their income cut or have become limited to such necessary social protection. It is about looking at our social security and seeing that for the first time we have a financial reserve of more than EUR 20 billion and that we guarantee the sustainability of our pension system for more than 29 years, in view of what was planned in the State budget in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We thus give a sign of hope and an effective guarantee to the young people of today who are discounted for social security and who know that they can count on their pensions, as we reject the pensions of their grandparents and their parents, because intergenerational solidarity is based on confidence that each generation does everything to disprove future generations of future responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Budgetary rigour gives us freedom, because a budget must never be an end in itself. There is even more life beyond the Budget. And the Budget is above all an instrument at the service of the political priorities that are defined in each Parliament and which, in the specific case, we have defined in the Government Programme. That is why health is the main priority of the State budget for 2020. To serve people better, we will continue to invest in access to health care, in the motivation of professionals, in the greater autonomy of hospitals and in the improvement of the facilities and equipment of the National Health Service ( SNS ). The health budget for this year amounts to more than EUR 11 billion, increasing 941 million from the initial 2019 budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This year, the strengthening of the initial health budget is more than 50 % of the strengthening of the total health budget in the last four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the greatest ever reinforcement in the initial health budget and represents the beginning of a "new cycle" for the National Health Service. This effort will lead to the programme to improve the response of the National Health Service that we have recently approved. We will hire more 8400 professionals and encourage the reduction of waiting lists by performing more surgeries and consultations, including on Saturday. We will also continue to extend the supply of family doctor and the network of family health units ( USF ), strengthening primary health care. The rate of investment in continuous care will double, with the opening of 1000 new beds, of which 200 mental health. And we will phase out moderate rates in primary health care and treatments prescribed in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We therefore have a budget at the service of citizens and businesses that enables us to invest in the implementation of ambitious public policies consistent with the four strategic challenges identified in the Government Programme. The first relates to climate change. Portugal was the first country to assume the goal of carbon neutrality in 2050 in 2016. in this budget, we reinforce the adequacy between fiscal policy and environmental sustainability, for example, through phased elimination of harmful tax benefits to the environment. We also know that the dimension of the challenge requires innovative solutions. And so we have asked the European Commission for authorisation to differentiate the VAT rate of electricity according to consumption levels, in order to encourage environmentally responsible consumption and improve energy efficiency, since the European Commission has already responded freely to assess the request and agreeing with the adequacy of tax policy to the objectives of climate action. We also maintain the commitment to sustainable mobility, particularly with the promotion of public transport throughout the national territory, through the programme to support tariff reduction, but also with support for the densification and strengthening of public transport supply and a set of key tools for strengthening the network, especially in the railways and the meters of Lisbon and Porto, as well as through the acquisition and repair of rolling stock. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget also places a set of measures aimed at younger generations, thus giving a determined and integrated response to the demographic challenge facing the country. Young people who end their study cycles and enter the labour market at this critical time may benefit from a significant reduction in IRS for three years, with an exemption of 30 % in the first year, of 20 % in the second and 10 % in the third, in order to support them in their empowerment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also bet on the creation of daycare supplements and the increase of tax deductions per child, which will reach €900 from the second child, in order to help families realize their life projects and can have the number of children they really want. From the perspective of the future, this is also a budget that enhances the opportunities of digital society — the third strategic challenge we have identified. Examples of this are the extension of the system of tax incentives to enterprise investment in research and development (R & D) and the refund of VAT paid by research centres in the purchase of equipment and other materials intended for their research and development activities. With the same aim of empowering the knowledge society, we have already concluded a legislative contract with higher education institutions, guaranteeing them a stable horizon of funding over the next four years. Finally, this is a Budget that is next to those who most need, increasing wages, pensions and social benefits,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in particular by continuing the strategy for the recovery of family allowance and taking an important step towards the eradication of poverty in the elderly, through the progressive convergence of the solidarity complement for the elderly with the poverty threshold and with a change in their resource condition. We also intend to implement pilot projects and support support for informal caregivers, strengthening the Model of Support for Independent Life (MAVI) and the measures to reconcile professional, personal and family life and measures to combat gender inequality, and progressively eliminating moderate rates in primary health care, as provided for in the Health Bases Act. We intend to renew the bet inside and in its potential so that no one will stay behind, giving a firm answer to the fourth major strategic challenge — the fight against inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this and I am now asking again before you: this is the best of the five State budgets I have already presented to this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the best because it goes beyond the replacement of income, adding income to the already restored. It is the best because it goes beyond the recovery of cuts in investment, bringing new investment to the one already recovered in the previous legislation. It is the best because it goes beyond the reversal of the huge increase in taxes, moving forward in greater fiscal justice. It is best because, in addition to reducing the deficit, it achieves the first budget surplus. This is the best of the five budgets I have ever had the opportunity to present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is the best because it is heir and continuation of the four Budgets of the previous Legislation, opening a new cycle so that in this Legislation, less conjuncturally, more structurally and even more focused on strategic challenges, we realize a model of development based on knowledge and innovation, apostatized in internationalization, in the dignity of work, in the strengthening of the business fabric, which ensures a decade of sustained growth above the European average. The time has come for Parliament to take a stand. And even a better proposal can only be improved in the work of parliamentary assessment. At the time of the takeover of the current government, I have had the opportunity to state, and let me quote the following: « The clear electoral reinforcement of the Socialist Party does not relieve the Government of the duty to promote parliamentary dialogue and stability on the horizon of the legislature. in the same way, the absence of an absolute majority imposes on the parties that have been — and we want them to continue to be — our partners have the added duty to contribute constructively to the success of this dialogue throughout the entire legislature ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] These words gain special relevance and clarity at the moment when the first budget of the Parliament is appreciated and will be voted on by this Assembly of the Republic. The government has fulfilled its commitments. First of all, as regards its general nature, this is a Budget that continues and deepens the path followed since 2016, supporting people and families, encouraging the growth of the economy and employment, promoting investment, qualifying public services, reducing inequalities, favouring knowledge, education and culture. This Budget does not contain any kind of retrogression in any area. On the contrary, it is moving forward with new measures to respond to the challenges of the present, with special attention to young people, the elderly and the middle classes. And it is precisely because it is oriented towards the balance of public accounts, fulfilling our obligations as a Member State of the euro area, that this budget allows, with realism and determination, new and important advances in the social field. Secondly, the Government has fulfilled its obligation and will to open up the dialogue with the parliamentary partners, with which we want to continue to build the solution of political stability and social development which Portugal has benefited so much. In drawing up the budget proposal, we have adopted a position of dialogue and commitment, meeting priorities and demands expressed by our partners. We have already done so, in fact, in the discussion of the Government Programme, with several approaches to the positions defended by these parties. We did so again in the original budget proposal, in which we welcome several of the concerns expressed by the parties at previous meetings. We have continued to do so over the past few weeks, through a very fruitful joint work which will certainly continue during the discussion of the Budget at the stage of the speciality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore with this triple commitment that I present here the Government's proposal. It is a commitment to the deepening of the path followed since 2016 and to the economic and social progress which it allows, logically, to make this Budget the most advanced of all those that have already been approved. It is a commitment to the parliamentary partners who have made this path with us and to whom we will, at the stage of specialization, work that can further improve the Government's proposal. It is a commitment with Portugal and the Portuguese, responding to the needs of the country in health, education, housing, transport and mobility, responding to the challenges of the Portuguese economy and society and ensuring the right accounts, essential for the country's international credibility and for the reduction of its public debt and annual interest burden. It is very important that we all understand that this is just the first budget of the new legislation. It's the beginning, not the end, of a new cycle. It is the beginning of a new four-year journey, during which we will make new progress and achieve new progress. It is therefore not enough to exhaust our Programme and work together in Parliament. Yes, it is a good budget, because it is a good starting point for a legislature that will be characterized by new safe steps in our path of development and prosperity. This trajectory requires programmatic coherence and requires political stability. That is what the voters said with all clarity last October. That's what the Portuguese want. That is what we are going to do, for the sake of Portugal, for the benefit of the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u7	Mr Prime Minister, having the Bureau registered many Mrs. Members to ask for clarification, as it is customary, in the first round, I will give the floor to each of the single parliamentary groups and Members, answering Mr Prime Minister one by one. For the first request for clarification, Mr Rui Rio, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, says that this State budget is the best budget you have ever submitted. I'd say it's not the best, nor is it the worst, on the contrary. [[PSD laughter.]] That is, this is a State of Continuity Budget. I will ask you three questions, and the first one could not fail to be about the continuity framework, i.e. the picture of the increase in the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u10	The tax burden in this State budget increases by 0,2 % of GDP. This means that the Portuguese will pay more than 434 million euros of taxes than what they would pay if the tax burden remained at the same level as it was in 2019. But it is also clear about who says that this is the best State budget, what he thinks about it. If we compare the government's proposal of State Budget for 2018 — a very short time ago! — with this which you are now doing, we have found that the increase in the tax burden is 0, 8 % of GDP. That is, it is EUR 1740 million that the Portuguese will pay more taxes by 2020 than they would pay if the tax burden were to be proposed here by you in 2018. [[PSD applause.]] And, therefore, the best budget is the most tax burden, because it has always more tax burden than the previous budgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u11	It's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u12	Yes, yes, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u13	Yeah, yeah! You're already arguing with the numbers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u14	Mr Minister, look I'm not talking about the State Budget for 2018, I'm talking about the budget proposal you made here. I'm careful, I'm kind of careful with what I'm saying. You have criticised the brutal increase in taxes in the time of the troika and from there you have already made five more increases in taxes, which leads to an increase in brutal taxes over what you have criticized six years ago. [[PSD applause.]] One element of the middle class in Portugal is working for the state for half a year and only at the end of half a year is that it begins to work for itself such is the tax burden we have in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] The tax burden is not only, of course, the responsibility of this government, nor is it a drastic reduction, what is required is the reversal of the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u15	You want more unemployment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u16	That is to say, every year you are asked to take a little and not that every year add a little or a little, because by adding each year a little gives you what we have now. The question I have to ask you, in fact, during the final election campaign - several times and the answer was never clear - has to do with the saving of public debt interest, which this year is going to be 160 million, although the Prime Minister has referred a number for five years, which corresponds to the truth. That's true! But then when interest rates rise — they will have to rise because they were never as low as they are at present — and now that this surplus is achieved solely at the expense of the increase in tax burden and the saving of interest, when there is no savings in interest, what are you going to do? More tax burden increases? The question I ask you — as I asked you during the election campaign and whose answer was never clear — is the following: in your opinion, in Portugal, the tax burden is too high or not too high? In Portugal, do we have to make an effective tax reduction or not? These are clear questions. What do you think? [[PSD applause.]] I admit that you tell me exactly what I don't want to hear, which is "I think taxes have to rise", but you have to say, because every year this happens. The second question I am going to ask you is more difficult than the previous one, because in relation to it you can say or not say what you think, but think anything, as is logical. This question I'm going to ask you is more complicated. [[PSD laughter.]] A State Budget has to have a strategy, it has to have a line, it has to have a direction, it has to define where we want to be here three, four or five years and this Budget, like the previous one, does not have that strategic meaning. I would say that a state budget in condition, in order to function well, must be like a toothed wheel system, i.e. Mr. Prime Minister megeria on the first wheel and the rest would work until the end. But the budgets that you usually present are not like a toothed wheel system, they're like a bag of balls that manages from time to time to make this work. This is the comparison that can be between something properly programmed and something agitated. The government does not have that strategy, but I have to ask the question and that is a difficult answer. One of the problems of the Portuguese economy is obviously the high external indebtedness. Exports grew by 2, 5 % in 2019 and imports by 5, 2 % and the external balance worsened. This year's forecast is also a higher growth in imports relative to exports and investment, even above, slows down, i.e. imports do not derive from investment. What do we have to do to reduce external debt if we have a medium- and long-term policy? We have to bet on small and medium-sized enterprises and we have to bet on saving.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u18	This budget has one or another measure for small and medium-sized enterprises, but it does not bet on it, and for savings it has absolutely nothing. So the question I ask is: how does the government intend to reduce the external indebtedness of this country, which is one of the conditions for our development? [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the last question is even more difficult, but, as Mr. Minister of Finance is next to you, all smiling, he is able to give you help in the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u19	He's a wise man! A wise man!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u20	My question has to do with transparency, or lack of it, in the State budget. of the State budget shows the balance of the budget in public accounts, which in one picture has a value and in another has a completely different one, with a differential of EUR 590 million. [[PS protests.]] When we asked where were these EUR 590 million, which evaporated, Mr Finance Minister gave an eloquent answer. You said I didn't know anything about this! The answer, the explanation you gave was that I didn't know anything about this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u21	And it's true! You still don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u22	Well, then, I don't know anything about this, but you need to figure out where the 590 million euros are.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u23	They're budgeted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u24	We don't want to know "where's Wally? », we want to know where the 590 million euros are! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to my question, I will give Mr. Prime Minister help, since I am convinced—but I am indeed! — that the Minister of Finance has deceived you. I think he even cheated on the Prime Minister himself. [[PSD laughter.]] So my question is not even to know where the 590 million euros are, is it to know whether Mr. Prime Minister has already figured out where they are or whether he is like me and has not yet understood where they are? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u26	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, I thank you for having had time for this debate, given the busy life you have had these days. [[PSD protests.]] I wanted to start with the first question, the tax burden. As you know, we have a tax burden below the European Union average and below the OECD average ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). What the Portuguese will pay less this year is very simple: the IRC of small and medium-sized enterprises will lower more EUR 60 million and the IRS of families will lower more EUR 50 million. Portuguese and companies will pay less IRS and less IRC this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the legislature that preceded my first legislation, the tax burden rose by two percentage points and, throughout the previous legislation, with the successive high revisions that the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) has been making of GDP growth, this great talk about the increase in tax burden has been greatly losing its validity. at this moment, you want to discuss 0, 2 %. It happens that if you look at tax revenues, you will find that there is no change and that the increase results from social contributions. And why? Why do we increase TSU (unique social rate)? Or why did we create a new social contribution? No, sir! Do you know what is increasing social contributions, improving the sustainability of our social security, where we have gained over the past four years 29 years of sustainability? Do you know what it is? Job creation and improved income. That is what is making income and social contributions greater. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So when I ask myself if I want to reverse, I answer you that, no, I don't want to reverse, because I don't want to either reduce income or increase unemployment. No, Mr. Deputies, I am not counting either to increase unemployment or to lower income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You think it is very difficult to answer the question about the strategy, but we understand that the strategy is very clear and defined where it should be, which is in the Government's programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u28	The Budget is only an instrument for the implementation of the Government's Programme. And the great priority given is the four major strategic challenges we have already identified: demography, inequalities, transition to digital society and combating climate change. But we also have a set of structural measures of the greatest importance. If you are concerned about debt, I am telling you that there is no better way to reduce debt than to have a budget surplus that will reduce it every year and disband the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If you are concerned about the future, I tell you that there is no better way to guarantee the future for young generations than to have confidence in the future of our social security system. When we define as an objective for this legislation to raise the solidarity complement for the elderly to the poverty threshold, meaning that, until the end of the legislature, any elderly person in our country, whatever the value of his pension, will not be below the poverty threshold, Mr. Deputy, that is a real reform in the structure of incomes and the structure of inequalities in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, on exports, today the INE has published the data on November: we have risen again 8 % in exports. So we're going up in exports and we're gaining market share. On the other hand, the increase in imports is mainly explained not by the import of current consumer goods but by the investment that companies are making in the purchase of equipment goods for the modernisation of their production structure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why this is a virtuous investment in creating better conditions of productivity in our economy. Finally, Mr President, the third question clearly reveals not our difficulty but its difficulty. in a budget in which the total expenditure represents EUR 96 819 million and its concern is 0, 6 % of this expenditure, says everything about its difficulty in criticizing this budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u29	To request clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that this debate has started a bit strange. It is that the PSD continues to deny what the Portuguese chose on October 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u32	The Portuguese have chosen to give a terrible defeat to the path of the PSD to the country... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and decided to strengthen the Socialist Party and the path that we started in 2016, i.e. a path of reintroduction of income, job creation, growth of the economy, credibility with the institutions. And, of course, Mr. PSD Members, Mr Rui Rio, this must be a budget that continues this direction and strategy. The strategy is very simple, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are not looking at the interior and our opponents within the parties, we are looking at the Portuguese and it is to the Portuguese that we are discussing this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u33	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u34	Yes, sir! You could have said here that it is against increasing the solidarity complement for the elderly with a view to eradicating poverty among the elderly, but you do not say so. You cannot say that you are in favour of strengthening the National Health Service, because what the PSD wants is the privatization and degradation of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the State budget is an absolutely essential tool for responding to the country's real problems. On the other hand, about the strategic challenges we have in the country, such as fighting climate change, the PSD says zero — zero ideas, no proposals, no contributions! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, four years ago, the Socialist Party presented itself to the Portuguese with an Agenda for the Decade and with the ambition to converge with the European Union, to continue to grow, to improve the lives of Portuguese. So, Prime Minister, this is an excellent budget. It is a proposal for a State Budget which, in the field of specialty, will surely be further improved, but it is a State Budget which, of course, responds to one of the most grueling problems we have in Portugal, the state of degradation of the National Health Service, the result of the policies of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, to the effort we have maintained for four years, we have added a priority and a decisive effort in this State budget, with the strengthening of funds for the National Health Service to be at the service of people, because that is why we are here, to solve their problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk about the future. This is a State budget that has a word and a vision for the younger and the future. That is why the so-called young IRS, for those who start to work, should be emphasized here, that is why the supplement-creche should be underlined and that is why the family allowance should also be taken into account as relevant and as a positive factor in this State budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, the only question at the moment of debate is: where do you want to go to the right, in particular the PSD? You must want to continue with cuts. For we are here to say that this is the first budget of this Parliament because the Portuguese asked for more growth, more employment, more equality and political stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, we are in the middle of the decade in which we have proposed to converge, but we are absolutely convinced in the Parliamentary Group that this State budget is another significant step towards convergence with the European Union. That is why we have proposed ourselves to the Portuguese, and that is why the Portuguese, too, have strengthened the weight of the Socialist Party in the last elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u36	Mr President, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, we have stated a great collective ambition for the country. We have resumed convergence and we want 10 years of sustained convergence with the European Union. It may seem little, but the truth is it has never happened since the beginning of this century. Between 2000 and 2017, we always differed from the European Union. We only resumed convergence in 2017, in 2018, in 2019 and will continue in 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we need to continue this effort so that we can get closer to the most developed countries. Only in this way can we continue to generate more and better employment and a general improvement in incomes in Portugal. To that end, it is essential to guarantee trust in those who invest, to continue attracting foreign direct investment, to continue to promote the modernisation of our business fabric. Private investment was even the basis of great economic growth throughout the last legislation. If we were to check, over the past four years we had accumulated growth of more than 8 % of our gross domestic product, we reduced the unemployment rate to half, we had the greatest growth of the century in 2017. We must continue on this path because if we regret the path, we will surely be more exposed to the risks that we do not control and, above all, we are frustrated by the Portuguese's just expectation of continuing the path of improving their incomes, which we were able to start in 2016. We must do so in a solid, sustained way, so that there is no risk of any backwardness, that we will have to face cuts again, when what we have to do is continue to make progress. It is on that solid basis that we must build the future. It is particularly frustrating to see how the speech of the opposition, unable to present an alternative vision for the country—not a vision of ambition, neither of a development strategy, nor of anything—is taking refuge in the debate of technical accounting details. Surely, tomorrow, Mr Finance Minister will have great pleasure in giving a small public and national accounting class. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u37	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u38	Now, when we look at the public position assumed by the PSD at the end of its parliamentary days, we see that, of those seven points, the only three politically relevant points are those that say everything about the inconsistencies that the PSD is today in Portuguese society. The PSD says three things: it wants more investment, it wants less taxes and it wants more budget surplus. Well, it's really a magical thought!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u39	It is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u40	In fact, magical thinking was set out in an article by the current great economic inspiration of the PSD, which explained the following : lower taxes, growth rises and, with growth, of course, will have a higher budget surplus. This magical thought we have already seen: it was what Durão Barroso inspired when he proposed the fiscal shock, that is what Passos Coelho promised and that it simply translated into the greatest fiscal worsening that the country had and under the governance of the PSD. No, we don't want to repeat, Dr. Rui Rio! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u41	I now give the floor to the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Catarina Martins, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u42	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government has decided to present the proposal for a State Budget and to hand it over to Parliament before it negotiates. That was a mistake, even because the Socialist Party does not have an absolute majority, which has a popular mandate to seek understanding. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u43	Inevitably, the government has seen the need to negotiate, now with less time and in more difficult conditions. And if today begins this debate knowing that your budget proposal will come to the specialty is because you have accepted minimum guarantees of progress in the specialty, for which the Block has worked and will continue to work. However, we are talking about minimums. And we are talking about minimums because all the measures contained in the Government's proposal on incomes, wages and pensions are insufficient to answer for whom it works and for whom it has worked for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u45	We are talking about minimums because their choice of giving priority to obtaining a budget surplus remains a deficit in the economy. The whole country knows where that surplus's money is, where it should be applied. These are the major crises of our day: public services, housing, transport and climate emergency. In order to exceed, the Government proposes a public investment that is insufficient. That is also why the general debate does not in any way close the debate of this State budget. We note the agreement we reached yesterday and today on important issues such as the descent of tips, the protection of poor pensioners and the program for the National Health Service. There are many open-ended issues and, during the specialization phase, we will continue to be beaten by the value of wages and pensions, by the response to informal caregivers, by respect for disabled people, by ensuring social support, both in childhood and in unemployment, which truly protect those who are most vulnerable. We will continue to beat ourselves to strengthen investment in culture and transport, to lower the bill of light, to respond to the housing crisis, the climate crisis and territorial cohesion. But I would like to ask you about one of the issues that is essential for the country and that the Left Block has put at the heart of negotiations with the Government : the National Health Service. In the previous Legislation, a new law was created to save the SNS. But the law serves little if we do not prevent the mechanism of its implementation. And it is in this Budget that its realisation begins. In the proposal submitted by the Government, there is a first response to the chronic subordination of the National Health Service, with a budget increase in 2020 at the home of EUR 800 million, which brings together an effort to reduce debt, last year and also this year. This effort is important but does not increase the weight of the National Health Service in GDP nor is it enough to finance all investments considered urgent throughout the sector. It is therefore crucial, for the Left Block, that the additional investment guaranteed in the agreement we have concluded today, i.e., more EUR 180 million focused on investment in complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, allowing better response to users and internalizing the responses that are currently contracted with the private sector. This investment should not be isolated and therefore the first question I put to it is whether it will be accompanied by the multiannual investment plan already provided for in the Health Bases Act and which is essential for strengthening the SNS response. Secondly, we came to an understanding to eliminate moderate rates in primary care during this year. In the consultations the moderate rates end with the entry into force of the State Budget, in the analyses and examinations carried out at the National Health Service end in September and in all the other complementary means of diagnosis and therapy prescribed in primary care end at the end of this year. But I remember that the Basics Act foresees the end of the moderation rates in all medical acts prescribed by professionals of the National Health Service. Consultations are being missed in hospitals, among many other matters. Therefore, the government must begin to prepare that path. Our agreement for this year is an important step, but it is only the first step towards the end of the moderate rates that the Health Bases Act determines. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u46	Finally, I wanted to highlight the importance of the agreement that we made for the implementation of the National Mental Health Program, one of the essential areas in which the response fails in our country, and record the advances in what concerns professionals. There are no SNS without health professionals. In the proposal submitted to Parliament, the Government undertakes to hire more 8400 professionals for the National Health Service in two years. As we now agreed, the path to full dedication, or exclusivity, begins in the National Health Service here with hospital medical leaders. The Government, in this case too, must prepare with the trade union organisations of the sector the next steps towards the implementation of the full dedication provided by the Health Bases Act. I leave two questions: do the planned contracts represent an increase of 8400 professionals working in the SNS or include replacement contracts for workers who, in the meantime, leave for retirement or for other reasons? It is that if they are included, we are not having the strength we need. Finally, will the institutions of the National Health Service have the autonomy to hire professionals who are missing in their frameworks? Because, so many times, if the execution ends up reaching the SNS, the authorization to hire, yes, has taken too long. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u47	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u48	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, this Budget is heir to and continues to the four previous budgets. He is an heir and a continuation in improving income, replacing rights, improving investment, improving the quality of public services, and also in solidifying our public accounts. It is a budget for continuity of the previous legislation and it is good that it is so, because the results we achieved were good results for the country, good for the economy, good for people in particular. It is this continuity that we must ensure. Therefore, since the formation of the government, we have never had any doubts about whom we had to work with, and thus we have spoken before the formation of the government and before the presentation of the Government Programme, as has been recognised here in the debate, which reflected some of the concerns of both the Left Block and the CFP and the PAN and the Free Book in particular. But we have also done the same with regard to this budget. We cannot say that we did not negotiate, we may not have reached agreement, as we arrived yesterday; you will say that it was our fault and I could repay saying that it was your fault, but perhaps it was both. Now, surely, at the meeting we had on November 12, we could have achieved, perhaps, what we agreed yesterday. We don't know! But there was a joint effort and this effort had a translation, from the outset, in the initial presentation of the Budget. As you know, the Government's programme does not contain any kind of reduction in electricity VAT. If we forecast the reduction of electricity VAT, although in a way compatible with the priority of combating climate change and socially more just, it was because we made an effort to meet concerns, in particular, the Left Block. If, in the Budget, we introduce the possibility of disregarding children, in the context of the assessment of the condition of resources for complementing solidarity for the elderly, paragraph 3. the step, went to meet, for example, a very old proposal of the Left Block on this matter. And this budget is a budget which, in terms of income, makes very important progress. There is one, of the greatest importance, which has to do with the restoration of the principle of annual updating of salaries in public service. People in general may think that this is a rule, but at least since 2000 it has ceased to be a rule and until there was one year, which was 2009, which was the exception that confirmed the rule. Now, what we have now rejected was this principle, already proposing to the unions not only an update from this year, but also a new update in the year 2021, giving it continuity in 2022 and 2023, and I hope that this principle will continue forever. When we set the goal of eradicating poverty among the elderly, through the solidarity complement for the elderly, we are even talking about improving income. When we strengthen housing and public transport measures, we are responding to the immediate needs of our middle class, but also helping to combat climate change. It is in this combination of objectives that we must pursue and that we really must continue. Public investment from the State Budget for 2019 to the State Budget for 2020 increases by 18 %, i.e. from 2 % of GDP to 3 % of GDP. Madam Member, I admit that you had the ambition to grow even more — we all had it — but there is one thing you can't tell me, which is that it's not more than last year or that it's a retreat for last year. What we really need to conclude is that this budget, in any aspect, is even better than last year's budget. I do not discuss the political options of the Left Block and the decision it made about the sense of vote that will be expressed here tomorrow, but one thing is certain: this Budget is better than the Budget that the Left Block voted for 2018, it is better than the Budgets that the Left Block approved in 2017 and 2016, and it is - from the point of view of income, from the point of view of improving investment, from the point of view of social justice. From all standpoints, it is a better budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u49	That's your point of view!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u50	But, Mrs Catarina Martins and Mrs Mariana Mortágua, as yesterday it was possible to obtain concrete results, contrary to what had happened in November, I am sure that, during the next few weeks of debate in this Parliament, we will once again be able to count on the Left Block to improve what is already the best budget proposal... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u51	... which I have presented in these five years to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u52	It is now the time for the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u53	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the proposal for a Budget which we are discussing here today, the PS Government has made its choices. Its central objective for the construction of the Budget is to achieve a budgetary surplus, imposing a brake on the pace of progress achieved in the last legislature and continuing to postpone the response to central problems of the country. It is a wrong option, in which the country's submission to the European Union's and the euro's taxes and the interests of the great capital is emphasized. Mr Prime Minister, let us call it a 'piphery' if you want, but that there are taxes on the European Union and that there is submission by the government is an undeniable reality. [[PCP applause.]] It didn't have to be that way. The country has serious problems that it needs to respond to, but it also has the means and resources needed to solve them, means and resources that instead of being consumed by debt and deficit targets, private bank holes or public-private partnerships, should be channelled to address the serious problems faced by public services, to the necessary increase in wages for all workers, to raise reforms and pensions, to strengthen public investment. When we hear here about the merits of the budget surplus, we remember the deficit of doctors, nurses and other professionals in our National Health Service, waiting lists, lack of equipment or millions of euros of public resources that continue to be diverted to the private health business. The budget surplus has, as a reverse of the currency, the deficit of thousands of operational assistants in schools or the absence of responses to the problems of the security forces and services and prevents the general increase in wages as an effective national emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u54	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u55	It is true that we are not in the face of the burnt land policy of the governments of the PECs ( Stability and Growth Pacts) and of the troika pact, but we are definitely not in the face of the full response that the country needs to deal with national problems. Over the past four years, in each State budget, we have had a pace of answers to problems that do not compare with the current government proposal. Mr Prime Minister said that this was one of the most advanced proposals in recent years, but it would be sufficient to mention three measures which have been taken in this process: free school textbooks, extraordinary increase in pensions and reforms, tariffs with lower prices in public transport. There are three measures that are not emblematic but have great meaning. We do not find in this budget proposal something comparable to the progress of the three measures I have mentioned. We note that, as a result of our intervention, the possibility has been opened to advance with measures to increase pensions, to take steps in the freeness of day care, to achieve the end of the moderate rates, to reduce energy costs, to increase social benefits such as family allowance or unemployment allowance, to strengthen the National Health Service or to create the National Medicines Laboratory, among others. We will not stop working with determination, in the specialty, so that these and other possibilities become a reality, but we will not be misled by the idea that it is possible to prepare the country's future from the levels of public investment that this Budget proposes. Where are the means to prevent it from happening again to the Portuguese forests what happened in 2017 or to realize works that have been stopped for decades, such as those of Mondego? Oh, my God! Where are the means and decisions to invest decisively in public transport, to buy trains for the suburban and long-term route? Where are the means to overcome the ruin situations in the various public services, including in health, where it is not enough to maintain the Budget that in 2019 did not arrive to solve the existing problems? Oh, my God! Where are the means for public housing construction? Where are the means to invest, modernize and prepare the country for the future, including its productive dimension? Thousands of public service workers must also be hired to strengthen their response capacity. What commitments does the government already make by 2020? It is not enough to enter generic goals. The situation calls for visible and concrete responses with impact already next year. The situation in the country, the reality with which millions of Portuguese are confronted is hard: low wages, low reforms, precariousness, unemployment, expensive incomes, imbalances and large asymmetries in the territory. The question is not whether or not there is Budget, but whether it really responds to the aspirations of millions of Portuguese, of those Portuguese who have not yet lost hope of a better life. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u56	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u57	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, this budget does not solve all the problems, as the previous four budgets have not solved all the problems, which is important if we identify the right problems and if we are in the right direction to solve those problems. What I can tell you is that this budget keeps the track, it has no backlogs either in school textbooks or in the reduction of the rate, nor in the extraordinary increases in pensions, nor in any of the rights gained in the last legislation, on the contrary, it has advances. It has advances for young people, who have, in the first three years of their activity, a very significant exemption in the IRS, at a time that is absolutely decisive for their empowerment; it has a great advance in the eradication of poverty among the elderly, through the solidarity complement for the elderly; it has a great response, with the greatest ever strengthening of the initial allocation of the National Health Service. Yes, we have progress and we must continue to move forward. This is the first year of a new legislature, where we have to restart a cycle that gives continuity to what we started in the previous legislature. I am sure that, with the cooperation of the CFP and the commitment of the CFP, we will also be able to improve this proposal, which is the best of the proposals we have adopted in the previous four years. That is the way we must continue, because, contrary to what Mr seems to believe, sometimes the surplus is not the objective that conditions the Budget, the surplus is the result of good budgetary management, a good growth in our economy, a strong job growth, and we get it even though we increase public investment, even though we increase the income paid in pensions, wages, social benefits and improve the quality of public services. It's despite all of this that we have surpluses. This is not an imposition of the European Union, it is an imposition of our country and our future because the obligation we have is for future generations but it is also for the needs of the country today. If today we can make the reinforcement we make in the National Health Service — plus EUR 941 million only in the initial appropriation — it is because we will save EUR 2000 million of interest on what the country paid in 2015. And why are we paying less than EUR 2000 million of interest today than we paid five years ago? We are paying less than EUR 2000 million of interest because we have recovered international credibility. And we recovered international credibility because we maintained a sustainable budgetary policy. What we have tried, and that is what the CFP should also value, because this is the greatest historical defeat of the Portuguese right, was that it was possible, indeed, to have healthy public finances without needing to cut wages and pensions nor to carry out gross increases in taxes, on the contrary, with better income, greater investment and greater social justice. This is the historical defeat of the right in Portugal, which was due to the work we did together and the PCP should not devalue the contribution it has made and the contribution of this result to the political struggle in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that there is a shortage of staff and the staff deficit we are responding to with new contracts. That is why the State budget provides for a multi-year programming standard for the security forces; that is why the State budget provides for the hiring of more than 8400 professionals for the National Health Service; that is why the hiring of more than 1000 superior technicians for the Public Administration is under way. It is this process of strengthening that we must continue, step by step, but, as you well know, we have often opened more competitions than the vacancies that have been filled. Therefore, the problem has not been on the side of captivating or allowing the opening of competitions, the problem is more complex, lack of human resources or difficulty in competing with other more attractive offers. The same applies to public investment. It is true that public investment has had a low execution rate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u58	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u59	...but I invite you to go see what happens, for example, in general local authorities. I will not individualise any, but the truth is that the level of investment in local authorities last year was 51 % in 2017 and 51 % in 2016 was 49 %. And why? Because the destruction of the construction sector, the lack of human resources, the difficulties of contracting processes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u60	That's no excuse!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u61	... the difficulties of the procedures for the control of legality, the litigation which has multiplied in all competitions, make it objectively difficult, often, to carry out the contract. Do you know how many contests we had to open to resume the works of the Truck High School? We had to open three contests. Do you know how many contests we had to open to resume the work of the High School Alexandre Herculano or the Conservatory? We had to open two contests. Even last week a cautious provision paralyzes a competition for acquisition of compositions, but the truth is that we are doing our work. When he talks about strengthening the capacity of national production and investment, particularly in the area of the railway industry, I invite him to come with me next day 15 to the Guifões workshop, which, after years of crippled, will now resume its activity and where you can already see trains to be repaired that will be able to start circulating on our railway. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, allow me to quote: « While there is a way to walk, we only have a duty, to continue walking and following the course that we started in 2016 ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u62	You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating you and wishing you a good year for the whole government and in particular for Mr Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister began by telling us what we had heard several times, that this is a continuity budget. Mr Prime Minister, it is indeed a continuity budget, above all, and unfortunately, in the huge abyss that separates the propaganda from its government, and its words here, from the reality of the country and the numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u65	I have prepared, for these questions which I wanted to ask you, four examples of how propaganda in this matter is very different from reality. It began with taxes, or tax charges, as you want to call it. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr Prime Minister announced here, as he had already done at the time of the Budget, that the IRS on families was going to lower EUR 50 million. I remember taking the number test and going to see how Mr. Minister predicted that from 2019 to 2020 the tax revenue would increase, i.e. taxes charged to Portuguese families. They will increase EUR 1799 million by 2020, which means that Mr. Prime Minister plans to raise 35 times more taxes than he plans to return IRS to Portuguese families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u67	This well demonstrates, Mr. Prime Minister, the difference between your propaganda and reality. Nor does it fail to be extraordinary that, in this debate, the Prime Minister has already said that EUR 590 million was an accounting detail.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u68	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u69	So, EUR 590 million is an accounting detail, but having EUR 50 million of IRS tax is already a big measure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u70	Oh, yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u71	Mr. Prime Minister, you cannot have one criterion for the government and another for the opposition! I would also like to ask you — because this is the fundamental issue in Portugal — about the lowering of taxes, which is not a priority for the Government nor for any of the parties that make up this new management, in which the new vote in favour is abstention, and frankly, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only if it's for themselves,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u73	... because the whole country had already realized, long ago, that there was a new management and that this Budget was going to be viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u74	You have to mount a bank with a crystal ball!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u75	We have learned that the lower taxes and the lowering of IRS is not a priority for any of these parties, because none required a reduction in the tax burden or, at least — the minimum — a maintenance of the tax burden to enable the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u77	Secondly, Mr. Prime Minister speaks of accounts. And, yes, certain accounts are important, Mr. Prime Minister is that he has discovered this recently, we always know that. But the Prime Minister has come to boast of the savings he has made in interest of about EUR 2000 million. It has indeed done so, Prime Minister, but it has paid five times more than this in taxes in the last five years. There were more than EUR 9260 million in taxes charged in this legislature, five times more than it saved in interest. The second example is the quality of public services. Mr. Prime Minister came here to talk about health, but anyone who has seen news in recent days—and the matter is serious— via news that health professionals will be trained in defence and that there were meetings between the Minister of Health and the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u78	Today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u79	There is a huge abyss, unfortunately, between propaganda on public services and investment in health and the reality of the quality of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u81	... where health professionals think that the only thing they can do to be able to go to work without being attacked by desperate patients is to have self-defense classes. This is very serious, Prime Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]] That the Government has nothing to do but announce self-defense working groups and training is absolutely regrettable. Third example of the huge difference between propaganda and reality, Prime Minister : the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João, whose works Mr. Prime Minister, before the elections, inaugurated, with pump and circumstance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u82	Inaugurated? Oh, my God! Don't! I didn't inaugurate!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u83	You've come!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u84	And that he visited. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know how much the Budget reports as a expense with the pediatric wing of the Hospital de São João last year, in 2019, that year when Mr. Prime Minister visited the wing and announced that there were already works? Zero euros, Prime Minister! Zero euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u85	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u86	Finally, I have an example on social justice for Mr Prime Minister and also for his partners, because they talk a lot about the lowest pensions among the lowest, and they do so right. We are talking about the lowest pension of the lowest of the lowest, of the social pension, of about 210 € per month, Mr. Prime Minister. Well, I went to work to see and the increase of these pensions that management managed to make in the last Legislature, Prime Minister, was €8, 79. In the time of the troika, in the time of the previous government, when everything was more difficult, these pensions had an increase of 12, 01 €. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u87	What about the others? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u88	This is the notion of social justice of the Socialist Party and the management parties: they increase lower pensions than the lowest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u89	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u90	Mr. President, Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, it is not worth our juggling with the numbers...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u91	Isn't that all right? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u92	... when the data are very clear. What increases the tax burden is not tax revenue, which increases the tax burden is social contributions. Social contributions do not rise by any imputable fact either to the increase in the rate or to the increase in its base of incidence. The tax burden simply increases the result of employment growth and improved income. In addition, I invite you to consult a study by Banco de Portugal which analyzes the factors that have contributed to the variation of tax burden in Portugal in recent years. This study shows that government action only resulted in contributions to lower the tax burden and the part of the economy only resulted in contributions to increase the tax burden due to the excellence of labour market behaviour. [[Protests by Members of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystals and Cecilia Meireles.]] This is reality, whether you like it or not. But, Madam Member, what is certainly not a detail for Portuguese taxpayers, particularly for young people, is the fact that if this budget is approved in the first three years of activity after the completion of an education course, when they enter the labour market, they will have a strong exemption from income tax as a fundamental support for their empowerment: 30 % exemption in the first year, 20 % exemption in the second year and 10 % in the third year. For these young people this support will be very important, so that they can live and have confidence in the future and in the capacity to build the future between us here in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Families will already benefit from increased child tax deduction, not on that basis that the CDS greatly appreciated in the previous legislation, in which the children of the rich are worth more than the children of the poor. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Now, with children all worth the same, the truth is that the deduction from the second child will already be 900 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u93	Oh, good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u94	Mrs Deputy, this is what, indeed, will weigh in reality in people's concrete lives. That is what will weigh on people's concrete lives. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have, in fact, a different view of fiscal policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u95	Oh, that's what we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u96	Mrs Deputy has a view that we should be a country that puts itself in the auction of low tax for everything and for all; we have the vision of a country where, in order to improve the income of families, for the development of the economy, for the modernization of our infrastructure, it is essential that we have good public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u97	They're great! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u98	... health, transport, and good housing policy, which effectively responds to people's needs. Therefore, between improving the quality of public services and lowering taxes, our priority is to improve the quality of public services. But if I wonder if there should be a redistribution of the tax effort, I tell you what it must be. For this reason, our priority is to continue to reduce the tax on those who work, from the outset, within IRS; it is to reduce the tax effort of companies that reinvest their profits to be more capitalised, who invest in technological modernization, who invest in research and development, who invest in the qualification of their human resources, who invest in the interior. That is where we want to concentrate the fiscal effort because that is where we actually have an advantage in concentrating it and we will make the difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, we want to make a redistribution of taxation on work, taxing what is harmful to the environment, which is so fond of the CDS, that it is always wanting to pay the taxes that tax the consumption of fossil fuels, those that most penalize the environment, those that contribute most to CO2 emissions and that we have a collective commitment to know how to reduce. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we are strengthening the needs of staff, that we are strengthening the needs of investment, is not ignoring the problems, it is precisely the opposite. It is to assume that problems exist and answer them. So when we increased, in the last legislature, EUR 1700 million to the budget of the National Health Service was not to pretend that there were no problems,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u99	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u100	... was to solve the problems that the lack of these EUR 1700 million could only aggravate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If we are this year, only this year, strengthening the initial allocation of the Ministry of Health in more than EUR 941 million is because we know that we still have to do more and better and we want to continue to do more and more better. And that's what we're going to do. Madam Member, if you want to effectively combat poverty among the elderly, look at the solidarity complement for the elderly, because that is the effective tool to fight the poverty of those who need it, and not to distribute money between those who need it and those who do not need it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u101	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr André Silva, of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u102	Afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister : in the budget proposal that we began to discuss, there are measures that we have signalled and valued, such as the extension to the whole country of the Housing First programme, which aims to implement the National Strategy for the Integration of Unhindered Persons; the strengthening of the provision of psychological care and nutrition in health centres; the strengthening of the commitment to mental health prevention; the guarantee of funds for agricultural production projects in biological mode; the increase of VAT of tourists; or the preparation of a socio-professional study of workers of the Pego and Sines centres, with a view to their professional requalification. However, small avous notes added to a document that has an accounting objective as a design: the superavit. This is an « ostrich budget ». Apparently, because of lack of courage to face certain interests, the government prefers to put its head under the sand so as not to have to face the complex challenge of facing the problems of the country accordingly. The Prime Minister has said, and repeated, that this is the best budget he has ever presented. More: it said it was a budget consistent with the strategic challenges assumed by the government, such as combating climate change or reducing inequalities. But when we read the map of the Environmental Fund, with an estimated amount of EUR 476 million, we realize that it transfers a quarter of the Budget to EDP, to amortise the tariff deficit, and supports several other budgetary holes, such as — let alone! — costs related to the American occupation of the Lages Base. And, in the end, how much remains for mitigation and adaptation projects to climate change or nature conservation? EUR 80 million, i.e. only 17 % of the environmental fund. Mr. Prime Minister, is this the best government can do? Are these coherent options in combating climate change? In the light of the government's promises of decarbonisation, we have also examined the policy options for the elimination of perverse subsidies in fossil fuels, and we have found a worrying continuity in the policy of exemption from ISP (charge on petroleum products ), at a cost for our country over EUR 500 million annually. Mr Prime Minister, are tax exemptions for coal burning, maritime navigation and air transport the best that the Government can do? Are these the coherent options in the fight against climate change? But not only are there any inconsistencies in climate change in this budget, but we also find them in the government programme presented so recently. One of the taboos of this Budget is the issue of reformulation of the steps of the IRS, in particular of the steps that most clearly affect the taxpayers of the middle class, a measure that would ensure more fiscal justice. Mr. Prime Minister, is this omission the best the government can do? Are these options consistent with the forecast of mechanisms that accentuate the progressiveity of the IRS, as referred to in your Government Programme? The Minister of Finance has emphasized the need to have certain accounts and to be responsible for the budget proposals we make, seeking to ensure revenue compensation. The NAP fully agrees with this view and has presented to the Government multiple possibilities of revenue that you reject, because you intend to maintain the tax model of taxing mainly those who work, not being open to other tax policy options, including taxing fossil fuels or unrecycled waste. But more: Portugal is one of the few European countries in which the VAT rate of hotel accommodation is reduced. Increasing the VAT rate from 6 % to 13 % is a «tax export » measure, as tax increases mainly affect non-residents. Not making this adjustment costs the Country EUR 235 million per year, an amount that could contribute to resolving the chronic underfinancing of culture or to compensate for the environmental impacts of the tourism sector, without jeopardising the so-called 'right accounts'. Unfortunately, the Government's vision for tourism is being like the history of the golden egg chicken. Representative of this vision is, in fact, the construction project of Montijo airport, a political option that, Mr. Prime Minister, will not be deluded, will put water. When that happens, how much, it will be able to deliver hydroplanes there! Open... We also deserve to highlight the distortions caused by the tax regime for non-standard residents, one of the causes that justifies the increase in housing prices in Portugal, especially in Lisbon, Porto and Algarve. The end of this scheme is not included in the proposal for a State budget, which makes it the best budget for European reformers, who find El Dourado here, but the country annually loses EUR 550 million of revenue that could bring an improvement to the lives of people without jeopardising the so-called 'true accounts'. For all this, Prime Minister, the NAP will present a package of proposals for amendments to the proposal for a State budget, so that it is still a better State budget, financially balanced between expenditure and revenue. The NAP proposals will not take account of safeguarding the interests of sectors that are considered to be untouchable, will be consistent with the objectives of combating climate change and conservation of ecosystems, improving the working conditions, the right to decent and accessible housing for all, and the strengthening of transparency in our country. A State budget which has no sign of convergence with these objectives cannot merit our approval. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u104	Mr President, Mr André Silva, first of all, this State budget seeks to be consistent with all strategic objectives, starting with the strategic objective of combating climate change. That is why we started, in this Budget — progressively, but with solid steps — the elimination of environmentally harmful subsidies, such as the tax on petroleum products and the carbon rate on coal and coke, which was 100 % and was down to 50 % by 2020, will rise to 75 % by 2021 and will be eliminated by 2022 ; fuel oil, with 25 %, 50 %, 75 % and 100 %; gas, oil and other gaseous hydrocarbons, with a decrease of up to 40 % throughout the legislature. We are therefore committed to this proposal. As you know, we have always rejected the idea of reducing VAT in electricity and we have sought to condition this measure to an objective that was environmentally compatible, because we do not understand how it is possible that on Monday, Wednesday and Friday we will be demonstrating - by the climate emergency and that on Tuesday and Thursday we say that the high priority is the reduction of VAT in electricity, when there are other instruments effectively suitable to combat energy poverty, as the social bill of electricity has shown it to be. But what we have proposed to the European Commission was the opening of a new field, which has never been used in VAT to date: the possibility of changing the VAT rate based on consumption scales, so that it is not an incentive to consumption but rather an incentive to good energy practice, to improve energy efficiency and responsible energy consumption. in this Budget we have a clear priority to strengthen investment in the forest, either through landscape plans, or through the resources of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas) or the reforestation program, because the forest is a fundamental element as a sink of CO2. There are other issues that concern the NAP and whose concern we share, for example, the fight against the housing crisis. From that point on, as you have acknowledged, and well, we immediately expressed in the initial proposal of State Budget the possibility that we can scale to the whole country the excellent experience of the city of Lisbon around the Housing First, the only effective measure to ensure living conditions to homeless people. Secondly, and as I have already said in my speech, there is a strong increase in housing investment resources, but more than that, there are two very important tax measures in terms of incentives for local housing that can be reoriented to the rental market by allowing municipalities to increase the rate of IMI (municipal property tax) on local housing in areas that have defined as containment areas and by eliminating the payment of value added tax when owners want to convert a property that is in local housing for rent, provided they conclude a lease contract for at least five years. This is a strong incentive for us to increase public supply and help combat the housing crisis. On the other hand, I am sure that the speciality debate will make it possible to enrich, with the contributions of the NAP, this budget proposal that we tabled by 2020. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u105	Now is the turn of the Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u106	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I shall begin by sharing with Mr Prime Minister and with this House two situations — which I have difficulty in qualifying and, in the absence of better qualifications, I shall call them 'quiry' or 'disquiets' — as a result of this proposal for a State budget. The first concerns our budgetary sovereignty and the freedom of peoples and their representatives to decide what they understand best for their country. Of course, it seems to us that we do not have any sense that the Portuguese Government feels obliged or has an obligation to request authorisation from the European Commission to be able to differentiate VAT rates in electricity. Therefore, by itself, this need for authorization should concern any citizen with democratic feelings, especially when it comes to a country where one third of Portuguese people have no money to heat up their home. But the most curious nor resides in this fact, even though it is equally worrying. The most interesting thing is that if the Government intends to combat energy poverty in the country or to promote energy saving and efficiency to combat climate change, it must request authorisation from the European Commission, but if the Government decides to increase its spending on NATO-related operations, it can do so without needing any authorisation from the European Union. Well, that doesn't make any sense! There's something wrong here, Prime Minister! The second 'curiosity' or 'disquiet' has to do with an example of the priority that this Budget says it has in the fight against climate change and in promoting the use of public transport. Let us see: Article 211. that of the State budget proposal refers to the deduction of costs with social passes for companies paying them to their workers and, in this case, the deduction is 130 %. But when we see Article 258. we realize that companies and self-employed people can deduct 140 % of the donations they make to the foundation that will organize the World Youth Days 2022. Mr Prime Minister, the idea remains that, in view of the need to combat climate change, we have a budget of a state which is secular but which, in this case, seems to value the World Youth Days more than the promotion of the use of public transport and the fight against climate change! It is therefore necessary, at least, to raise the cost deductions with social passes to 140 %. At least, Prime Minister! There's good sense! In addition, Mr. Prime Minister, if the economy is having a good performance, it is fair that this good performance has positive effects on people's lives in exactly the same proportion. And when we talk about positive reflections, we talk not only about people's rights and incomes but also about the quality of public services, because if they do not value wages and if they do not improve public services when the economy is having a good performance, then when will it be time to make real value for income and wages and to strengthen the quality of public services? in this context, Prime Minister, I have to tell you that, for the Greens, what is expected, both for the increase in wages of public administration workers and for reforms, is absolutely insufficient at all levels and in all dimensions. It is insufficient when we compare our country's average wages with those of other European countries, it is unfair when we compare the value of this increase with that of the funds that are planned to finance the bank — I recall that it is more than 600 million euros for the New Bank alone and more than 55 million euros for the BPN — and it is absolutely unfair when compared with the amounts that are planned for the costs of public-private partnerships. Mr Prime Minister, I will not ask you whether you think this is fair or unfair, but I ask you if you think this increase in the salaries of public administration workers and the expected increase in pension and reform are in line with the performance of our economy. And this question naturally presupposes the presence of at least three important data: on the one hand, the fact that the return of rights and income to families—as in fact has already been recognised by the Prime Minister today in the debate—have been decisive for the performance of the economy and, on the other hand, the fact that the salaries of public administration workers have been frozen for more than a decade and the value of pensions and reforms continue to be a grueling injustice. In short, what I ask you, Prime Minister, is that the values for increases in wages and pensions accompany the growth of the economy. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, since the beginning of the crisis that the Portuguese have already paid more than EUR 20 billion to try to save the bank. in this budget more than EUR 600 million is planned for the New Bank and more EUR 55 million for the BPN. We can even say that this is a paid ministry! But the Portuguese are tired of paying the bankers' irresponsibility and the bill of harmful management. They think, well, that they should not have this obligation, because when banks make profits they don't share it with the Portuguese, they get the whole cake — the banks, of course! What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether this line of support for the New Bank and BPN is completed this year or whether we will still have to load during the years that come. And, in that case, until when, Mr. Prime Minister? [[Congratulations on the ENP and on the PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u107	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u108	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all VAT, as you know, is a tax that is regulated at European level. Therefore, its amendments or comply with the case law of the Court of Justice and the letter of the regulations — and must have absolute neutrality, therefore, we cannot differentiate depending on the level of consumption — or, in order for such a change to occur, it must have an authorization. In fact, that is how we made the first reduction last year in terms of the power contracted, thanks to an authorisation we obtained from the European Union, and this is of the greatest strategic importance not only for us but for Europe as a whole. Fortunately, in the Green Deal proposal that the European Commission has already submitted, it is also assumed for the first time that VAT rates can be differentiated according to the ecological footprint — in this case with regard to agricultural products. It is this logic that we also want to apply to the reduction of VAT on electricity, because you are a Green Member, and you will certainly be accompanying me in the recognition that this reduction in VAT must be adjusted to the levels of consumption, so that it is not a negative incentive from the point of view of combating energy change. Even more so than the most effective measures, as has been proved, to combat energy poverty, do not go down on VAT but, rather, increase the social invoice, as we have increased it throughout the last legislation. World Youth Days are not just a religious initiative. This is a major programme of requalification of the border front of Loures and, still, from the municipality of Lisbon, and this project, which is a great opportunity to requalify that entire border front of Bobadela, has been worked intensively, together with the Patriarchate, both with the municipalities of Loures and Lisbon. That is why surely requires all our attention. With regard to income, Mr President, pensions will increase over inflation for the third consecutive year. If I wonder if this is in line with our economy, I will say that it is in line with our economy, because, as you know, with the formula that exists for rising pensions, only two years with an average growth of more than 2 % is that it is guaranteed for all those who are covered by this measure an increase above inflation. It is thanks to the fact that the economy has, on average, grown above 2 % in the last two years that we have this increase above inflation. And it is the first time, in our history, that we have three consecutive years with this increase, since this regime exists. Finally, and with regard to public service, I draw attention to the fact that the change we make is historic. We have reintroduced a principle that has been abandoned for 20 years and that is fundamental, which is the annual salary update. We cannot confuse the annual update of wages with the full pay boost that will exist throughout this year. Together we will have between the completion of the defrosting process and the annual salary update process, an increase of 3, 2 % of all salaries in the Public Administration, Portugal. contrary to what I often hear from the 2019 low inflation rate, that the proposal was only up-to-date based on the 2019 inflation, we proposed from now on to make it clear that 2020 would not again be an exception, as 2019 was to confirm the rule, but the first of a continuous annual update process, we proposed, I repeat, the update to 2021. And what we proposed was very simple: with inflation estimated at 1 % by 2020, what we proposed was that it would have been assured that the update for next year would be at least 1 %, and that the government would monitor the update if inflation was greater than 1 % and would not reduce it if inflation was less than 1 %. This shows that the principle of replacing the annual update is not an exception, but it is a principle that has come to remain. Finally, Mr President, as far as the bank is concerned, we have not created any mechanism. We have confined ourselves to consolidating, solving and staging a hemorrhage that existed, fixing the maximum threshold of the contribution. That threshold is fixed and will not pass from there. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u109	It is the time of Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, to ask for clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u110	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, first of all, I wish to vote for a good year. I had already missed having here, Prime Minister, to answer with realism—I hope it will be with realism—on these questions, because of realism this Budget has very little. So our first question is: how is it possible to have a budget which, in terms of oil prices, is already out of date on which we are discussing it? It is something extraordinary that the out-of-date is almost faster than the words of the Government in this matter. [[PS and BE protests.]] I see the Left Block very indignant with the questions of the Socialist Party. Take it easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u111	Who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u112	Mr. Prime Minister, is this, or isn't it, the biggest tax burden ever? Brussels says it is and your minister says no! And even last week we had the European Commission saying that the tax burden will be a record in 2020. Someone's wrong or someone's fooling the Portuguese—it's good that it's clear here! By now, Prime Minister, I would like to thank you for answering the following questions with the greatest possible objectivity. Are they going to increase captivating? It is because we have had the Technical Unit of Budgetary Support saying that we are going to have a 25% increase. If there is an increase of 25 % of captives, we can give the money we understand for health, for the security forces — not to show up again on 21, in front of Parliament — the truth is that in 2019 only 31 % of the initial allocation was used. So the question that we have to ask is this: are you going to increase the appropriations in this Budget? Is it not true that we will have more treasury instruments restricted to the authorization of the Minister of Finance? If so, Mr. Prime Minister, this budget has only one word: it is a mere programme! It's nothing more than that. It's not a budget, it's a program! I would also like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether the failure of the State will continue. It is beginning to be a bit tiring, not only for families as for businesses, that the State, headed by H.E.A., has created a programme for municipal chambers to begin to comply with suppliers and that the State is today the main non-compliance regarding financial obligations for all — families, businesses, etc. It is important to know whether these families and whether these companies will ever receive from the State. It is that citizens are a little tired of being overwhelmed when they owe 15 or 30 cents and seeing the state, when it owes them thousands of euros, to delay to pay and not to pay interest, when it finally pays. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, because time is not much and I would like to make another intervention, I ask: is it true that this budget removes powers from the Court of Auditors? So, the champion of transparency, the champion of the instruments of supervision of legality removes, in business and works, competences to the Court of Auditors? Oh, my God! It's an extraordinary gravity! We have to ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is true or not. Yesterday, as always, some people said yes and others said no. The truth is that in the instrument they are said to be more business outside the previous visa within the Court of Auditors. And the citizens look at you, who announced here, during the discussion of the Government's programme, that great fight against corruption and transparency, and now see in the Budget withdrawing powers from the Court of Auditors. Where and how do we stay? I'd like you to clarify me as objectively as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u114	Mr President, Mr Ventura, I will also be a telegraph, since my time is no longer abundant. First of all, on forecasts for the tax burden, I have only one criterion: for five years I have been used to having a difference between the forecasts of the European Commission and the Minister for Finance. I only reply that what I have always found is that the Minister of Finance has always been right and the European Commission has always failed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If this year is the exception which confirms the rule, I hope not, Mr President. There will be no more captivating and this year's standard is exactly the same as last year. With regard to non-compliance with payments, a great effort has been made. For example, in the health sector, in November we were late in payments amounting to EUR 800 million. We paid EUR 550 million by 31 December and until February we will pay the remaining EUR 250 million. This budget strengthening of EUR 700 million will therefore add to a system that starts the less indebted year. Finally, there are some matters in which the Court of Auditors'prior visa effectively disappears, which does not mean that the Court of Auditors'supervision is withdrawn. Only that it is done at a posteriori, that is, with greater responsibility on the part of those who carry out this expenditure. This is about speeding up investment, not reducing control and control over this investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u115	It is the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, to ask for clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other government members, very good year to all. Mr. Prime Minister, I will be careful because I saw the removal with which you spoke of this Budget — the best ever budget, the father of all budgets,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u117	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u118	... the nobility of the Budgets—and I do not want to hurt your susceptibility, nor invoke the parliamentary, legendary anger of the Prime Minister. I will be careful and give you one point from now on: we agree with the objective of reducing public debt, which is a very important macro-economic objective. But it must be agreed that the political choice to arrive there can be discussed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u119	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u120	The PS wants to achieve this reduction in public debt, maintaining a surplus, growing little — long-term projections give 1, 5 % per year — and reducing nominal debt. The PS does not want it, but the Liberal Initiative would want the budget surplus to be returned to the Portuguese in the form of more income, that growth could be higher and that the reduction of public debt was made by the GDP ratio, which is what really matters and what would be much faster than in the scenario that the PS chooses. And, Prime Minister, please, do not come to respond to the fiscal shocks of Durão Barroso, or others, because if you do not believe that reducing taxes adds to growth, if you believe that it is rising taxes that generate growth, I tell you, from now on, that in your legislature the two years in which the economy grew a little bit more were the two years when you had the lowest tax burden. I must also say that if you think more taxes produce more growth, I think it is good to warn the Portuguese, starting with those who are here in the galleries, that this will happen and that in the coming years, to grow more, we will have more taxes. Or, then, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u121	Or, then, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u122	Or, then, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u123	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the huge temptation to say to you, then, no! » because we are not even going to raise these taxes! [[P.S.'s applause.]] By not sharing this magical thought that tax drop means more growth, that has never been demonstrated anywhere, I only say the following: today, Portuguese pay less than 1000 million IRS than they paid when they took up Prime Minister. This year, they will pay less than 50 million IRS if this budget is approved, companies will pay less than 60 million euros than they paid last year and the famous tax burden, again, has not been raised by the increase in taxes, as the tax revenue remains. What has changed is indeed the increase in social contributions. With regard to growth, Mr President, we would all like to grow more. There is one thing that I have — and that no one can discuss: the only years Portugal has converged with the European Union, i.e. that it has grown above the European Union average since we joined the euro, were 2017, 2018 and 2019. At that time, he was not yet a Member, but I am sure that by 2020, although you are a Member, we will also continue to grow above the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u125	It is Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira's turn to ask for clarifications. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister, this is not, at least, a State Budget of an officially left party, with a left-wing perspective, but especially with the objectives of a left-wing government. This budget is misleading and disappointing immediately, when the increase in national minimum wage does not dignify workers. I will then insist on this whole legislation in connection with this. I am indifferent to the fact that there will be a budget surplus. I am indifferent to the fact that the European Union will be very pleased. I am indifferent to the initial views of strengthening some areas, of investing in some areas, obviously useful areas, such as health, housing, education and transport. But as long as the national minimum wage is this, absolutely miserable, there is no State budget that is indeed an unpublished, historical, unique budget. There needs to be a greater increase in the national minimum wage, and this increase must initially be up to €750. My question is this: will the Prime Minister make a new reflection on a real increase in the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u128	Mr President, Mrs Joacine Moreira, first of all, I would like to say that the national minimum wage is not fixed in the State budget, nor does it directly condition the State budget. In addition, this year, the national minimum wage was set at an amount that was already the lowest salary in the public administration as a whole. With regard to Public Administration, we will surely have an increase in salaries—and an increase that will surely put them above the national minimum wage. With regard to the evolution of the national minimum wage, we have defined a strategy for legislation that has to be consistent with what is the dynamic of the economy and what is the dynamic of job creation. The ambition we have, if we meet it, however low it may seem, is that in two legislatures we will increase the value of the national minimum wage by 50 %. If we want to go further? We all want to go further. But we must go so that this does not compromise the fundamental good, which is job creation, its stability and its quality. Now, with the State budget, there are other matters that have to do with and impact on those who earn the national minimum wage. These issues relate, inter alia, to the fact that with the rise of the minimum of existence they are free to pay IRS more than 30 000 families in 2020 than those in 2019 — and in 2019 more than 27 000 and, in 2018, more than 140 000 families. And that, yes, has to do with the State budget, it has to do with improving the efficiency of fiscal justice in order to degrade taxation on those who earn the least. But there are other measures in the State budget. And when the honourable Member acknowledges here that there is a strengthening of investment in housing, health, education and transport, she will also recognise that all improvements in these public services translate into increasing the income available to families. Only the measure relating to the reduction of the price of the social pass has resulted in a higher monthly income increase in many families than the increase in the national minimum wage throughout the legislature. So when we look at the income of families, we need to look not only at wages but also at what the state charges them through the tax system and what the state returns them through non-monetary transfers, with free school textbooks, with the reduction of transport tariffs, with the creation of the social rate of electricity and the fight against energy poverty, with the set of social benefits that will be increased. Just as it is essential to combat low income, daycare supplement, IRS deduction from the second child and exemption of 30 %, 20 % and 10 % from IRS for young people during the first three years of activity. That is what we must continue to do throughout this legislature. But for this we need an economy that is solid, that continues to generate wealth and, above all, that continues to generate jobs, and that jobs of increasing quality. It is in this integrated way that we must look at income policy, not insulating the theme of wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u129	I would like to thank the Commissioner for his excellent work on this subject. Members, to whom Mr Prime Minister will answer, together, in a first group, to eight and, in a second group, to seven Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The first entry for this purpose is Mr Duarte Pacheco of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Prime Minister, you have presented us here with an imaginary country, which I do not know whether I will call it 'Czechland' or 'Centenoland' — I leave that to you. In fact, it is a truly imaginary country, a country that has a State budget that increases 15 taxes—such as seal tax, the IMI, the IMT (municipal tax on the expensive transmission of buildings), the ISV (vehicle tax), the IUC (single circulation tax), the tax on petroleum products, on tobacco, on online gambling, on sugar drinks— which creates new contributions, which updates the IRS below inflation, corresponding to an increase in taxes. But the government believes that all these taxes are paid by aliens and that therefore the tax burden does not increase, lower. It's really an imaginary country, Prime Minister! More than that, Mr. Prime Minister has brought us here information that was not true. Just read the OECD official page to prove that in the last year for data to exist in 2018 the tax burden of Portugal is higher than the average of OECD countries. Perhaps the Minister of Finance has made a mistake, as others have done in the past. But this imaginary country, Prime Minister, is the one in which, with the State budget, EUR 590 million of expenditure disappears and the Prime Minister has no explanation, proving the lack of rigour of the budget piece that presents to the Portuguese. This imaginary country is the one that Mr. Prime Minister says he will be flooded with public investment, when we find that the value presented is equal to, as a percentage of GDP, that he presented to us last year and that he did not execute, because he did not execute in 2016, neither in 2017, nor in 2018, nor in 2019, and has always remained 700 million euros below forecast. But now, Mr. Prime Minister says: "Believe in my word, because I am full of strength and now I will do everything! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course we can't believe it. And we cannot believe it because your past, unfortunately, does not allow us to believe that word of trust. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u131	And it is still the imaginary country in which the government speaks of the wonder of public services, but in which schools close for lack of staff, in which in health people desperate to be cared for, in which in the security forces the cars are stopped, in which in the morning the Portuguese line to be cared for in social security, in which the reformed wait months and years to have their pension deferred. Now, this, yes, is Real Country, which is very different from the imaginary Country that presented us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u133	This is a country in which all partners in the euro area, in parity of purchasing power, grow more per capita income than we do, because we are stagnant.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u135	This country is so different is the Portuguese country and the country that presented us here is the country of the PS, it is the socialist country, it is the country of the Centenoland or of Estonia, as you wish. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to congratulate the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mr Prime Minister and wish everyone a good year. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, today, we have started the discussion of the State budget for 2020, a budget that is effectively continuity, continuity in progress and improvement of the social state, on-line, in addition to the work done in the previous Parliament and Government. Even at the beginning of the discussion, we can already withdraw these two evidences: for the Socialist Party and for the parties on our left, it is interesting to talk about concrete proposals, possible advances and necessary answers; at our right hand, we continue to see an empty of truly alternatives to a State budget that rejects completely and to an inability to speak for people. I say this because, for the Socialist Party, more than talking about numbers, we talk about people, concrete measures, public policies for the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u139	We do not hide in the inevitability of what has not been done. We assume what we are about to do, set goals, evolve each Budget and always with the same goal at the end: put people at the heart of our political action and improve the lives of all Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u140	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u141	We know that it will never be an easy debate for the PSD and CDS benches, but this is really the debate that matters. It should be noted that this discursive dichotomy is also a clearly political dichotomy. It is that while you have advised our young people to emigrate, this budget continues to promote measures for their stable and conditional fixation, particularly at the level of parenthood. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And while you have ruled under the aegis of cuts and ceilings, this State budget continues to promote better and more decent conditions for the Portuguese, with a particular focus on the elderly. And while you cut income, increased taxes and did not prioritize Portuguese, this budget continues to increase income, pensions and benefits, respect people and promote more and better work. All this is strange to the PSD and the CDS, which for four years rejected four State budgets, State budgets that refused rights, increased pensions, increased social benefits, promoted improvements in the sustainability of the social security budget, increased the network of equipment and social responses, among many other things. All this is strange to the PSD and the CDS, who debate social security with a hand full of nothing, without telling us what would be your alternative to pursuing policies for the Portuguese people. That is why it is also strange for them to discuss this State budget, a budget that brings real and effective commitments, namely: real increase in pensions for the majority of pensioners; increased solidarity for the elderly, with a view to their convergence with the poverty line; strengthening the family allowance; strengthening the public employment service; implementing all phases of social inclusion provision; strengthening the social equipment network, day care and creating a complement for day care This is the State budget that presents us for 2020 and this is the State budget that we will be working on, in particular, and that will certainly come out of here most beneficial. But this is a State budget, I repeat, of progress in promoting the social state. So, Prime Minister, I ask you: what is the trajectory we want to follow at the level of social protection to reduce inequalities and to combat poverty and what is the alternative to cuts and caps to promote better social justice? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u142	Also to ask for clarification, Mr. Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, have left European statistics on energy poverty many days ago and we have, in addition to a country where families spend the greatest part of their income on energy costs, a country with the highest percentage of their population without the ability to provide thermal comfort and where it goes cold, which is why we have an excessive mortality in winter. This problem has been a long-running battle that the Left Block has been working here in Parliament. And I remember that, in the first of those four budgets, which are worse than that, in the Prime Minister's view, we have adopted a solid measure and that it has been one of the most important answers to this problem so far: enlargement and conversion to a relevant measure of the social tariff, which has become automatically attributed not to 100 000 people, as it was to that time, but to 800 000 people, as it has been, with a 30% discount on the electric invoice. I recall this measure, in this 2016 Budget, to compare it in some way at least in its scope and in its definition, with this which the Government today proposes, in VAT (added value tax ), in which it would be the best ever. And the contrast is striking, because, where we had a quantified measure with a relevant impact on the electric invoice, particularly in the most deprived populations, we today have a statement of uncertain intentions on their impacts and without a clear commitment to the profile of the VAT reduction that the government is forecasting. We look at the Government's proposal and we do not know which steps are intended to be created, what rates are intended to apply to these steps. After all, what impact can this VAT drop have? What is the concrete effect on electricity consumers' turnover? When we get to Article 218. that of the budget proposal, what we find is not a response to the Left Block, Prime Minister. What we find is not an answer to the problem of energy poverty! What we have found is a huge question mark on what, indeed, can represent this intention of a fall in VAT. The very simple questions that I leave to you are these: is it during the budgetary procedure, at the stage of the specialization, that the Government will clarify the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese on their intentions as to the scope and impact that the fall in VAT may have? Who will be covered? What consumers and what rate drop? These are all these questions—all that count, after all! — that are to be answered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u144	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u145	Mr President, Prime Minister, as has already been said, there are substantial differences between this proposed budget which has been submitted and the budgets approved in recent years, starting with the consequences of the option of giving the surplus what is missing from the country. The budgetary surplus would not be a problem if, at the same time, the problems of the country were solved, particularly within the framework of the Public Administration. That is, if all the workers—and, I stress, all the workers! (ii) to ensure that their purchasing power rests with the corresponding increases in wages; if the public services had the investment and hiring of workers they need to solve their problems and improve their ability to respond to the needs of users; if careers were valued so as to achieve, for example, the value of education in public school or to stop the departure of health professionals to private groups; if the working conditions were dignified and the risk of the mission was duly taken into account, in order to avoid, for example, the exhaustion and overload of the personnel of the forces and security services, of the judiciary or of the military; or if the precariousness was eradicated once and for all, in schools, for example, teachers, parents and students could know that, every day, there are sufficient assistants to ensure their proper functioning. Also within the fiscal framework, the surplus would not be a problem if there was more fiscal justice, with the continuity of decisions that led to fewer IRSs on who work and has lower income and higher income tax; if the IRC did not weigh so much on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and if the economic groups could not escape the payment of taxes in Portugal; or if the VAT on electricity and the price of fuels did not weigh as they weighed on families and on the national production activity. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the budget surplus would not be a problem if social benefits were also strengthened, as is necessary, to increase reforms and pensions, to put an end to the penalties of the sustainability factor, to ensure that young families could count safely on daycare leave, have free daycare for their children, have strengthened family allowance and better conditions of enjoyment of their parental rights. Mr. Prime Minister, all these situations correspond to existing problems that are unanswered, correspond to necessary and possible solutions to be realized and also correspond to elements of such continuity that are spoken of, but that are not found in the budget proposal. While these and other problems continue to be solved, the option of giving the surplus what is missing in the country is a wrong option, an option that needs to be changed. Therefore, Prime Minister, the question I put to you is that concrete commitments are made by the Government, in order to respond to these problems that are identified. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u146	For clarifications, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, one of the main objectives of the Government under this Budget is to strengthen the right to housing and combat the gentrification of cities. Of course, the NAP welcomes this goal. However, we miss the Government's option to maintain the unaltered golden visa programme in terms of real estate investment and also to seek to extend it to other areas. Let us be clear, Prime Minister: the crisis of the housing we live is also caused by the programme of the golden visas. Eurostat and INE data demonstrate that gold visas have generated a speculative dynamics in the real estate market in Portugal and have contributed, among other factors, to a marked increase in housing costs since 2012. Data from the Foreign and Border Service show that between 2012 and 2019 the value of the total accumulated investment amounts to almost EUR 5000 million, 90 % of which were channelled to the acquisition of buildings. Only 17 visasgold were assigned because of the criteria for the creation of at least 10 jobs, which generated just over 200 new jobs, and, curiously, in seven years, a golden visa was never assigned because of the categories related to investment in scientific research, cultural or artistic heritage. It is clear that beneficiaries of this programme only have an interest in unrestricted access to the Schengen area and travel facilities without prior visa to more than 100 countries. The visasgold programme is an inequality in how we allow foreign citizens with financial resources to access our country, as opposed to the difficulties of access for those seeking our country to work and live. This program not only did not meet the objectives of foreign investment capture as it still had a perverse effect on the economy and the lives of Portuguese people, moving them away from their cities, pushing them to the outskirts, even leading many people to despair because they did not find a home to live, because they did not have the economic capacity to pay the current exorbitant and totally exempt incomes from the average wages. In addition to all this, the European Parliament, the European Commission, the OECD and the European Economic and Social Committee have called for its repeal due to the risks of corruption, money laundering and tax and security evasion involved. So I ask you, Mr Prime Minister, why does he insist on keeping this programme in force in our country, which has been so critical of the European institutions and the OECD? Why do you keep a program that has contributed, so preponderantly, to real estate bubbles in our country? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u148	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u149	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, we must not fail to point out that we are facing a State budget filled with good intentions and many commitments, which we do not know whether they will be made, nor how, but which is really a continuity budget, as you like to say. Continued commitment with Brussels to be good student of cuts in investment, even though public school is so in need of investment at all levels. A Continuity Budget of Investment Promises in the Environment, Sustainability, Adaptation and Mitigation of Climate Change. However, «words, take them to the wind», Mr Prime Minister. How does the proposal for a State budget for 2020 explain the sustainable exploitation of mineral resources, particularly lithium? What kind of sustainability are we talking about? of the destruction of the soils, which are the subsistence of the populations, which are the agricultural heritage of humanity and which contribute to the production of unique products and also they classified? Oh, my God! of the destruction of access to water — an essential asset — which will be committed to the exploitation, since only in the prospecting in Morgan already form springs? Oh, my God! What is the sustainability of the government? Sustainability is the populations of Montalegre and Boticas remain in their lands, even when they close their schools, when they are removed from their TTC posts, when public transport is rare and the right to mobility is disrespected. Sustainability is to block the secrecy in which this process remains involved, which can only bring distrust and disbelief. Mr. Prime Minister, what are the nine areas in which public tenders will be launched for exploration and exploitation of associated lithium and minerals? It is that many requests have been made, and they have continued to increase after the announcement made by the Minister of the Environment of these nine areas. We are continuing a process that is not democratic in which people are neither involved nor heard. It is not enough to promise that the exploitation of mineral resources will bring about job creation, more population and development of the interior. Nothing but words that the wind will bring. Where are the opinions that indicate that there will be no negative environmental impact? The prospect and exploitation of our country's mineral resources, in particular lithium, cannot be dictated by markets or by large multinationals to the detriment of populations and ecosystems. The Government must safeguard the rights of the people and defend and protect the natural values of the country. What sustainability does the State budget speak of if the prospecting and exploitation will be made by private companies that only have big profits? Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask: what sustainability—or even miracle! — are we talking, at the level of economic development, whether the price of lithium on the world market has fallen by almost half? [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u150	Mr Alvaro Almeida, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, in his initial statement, said that health is the main priority of this State budget for 2020. This change of political option—and it is a change that is concerned because it did not happen in previous budgets, where it is not that health was not a concern, because obviously it was, but it was diluted in the midst of other concerns—this increase in health was not a surprise because since the legislative elections, we have heard high leaders of the Socialist Party publicly recognize what the PSD had been reporting for a long time and that the Portuguese know for a long time. That is, that the governance of the Socialist Party caused serious damage to the National Health Service and that the SNS is worse today than it was when the previous Socialist Government took possession of it in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u152	That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u153	And no, sirs. Socialist Members, it's not the PSD's fault.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u154	He's adulterating what's been said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u155	When the Socialist Party has been a government for more than four years and when it has been a government for 18 of the last 25 years, trying to hold the PSD accountable is a symptom of the despair and embarrassment that this issue raises to the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I therefore cannot fail to congratulate the Prime Minister on this political option, because he finally recognizes that there is a problem and declares the intention to reverse this situation. It should have done so long ago, at least since 2018, when the signs of SNS degradation were obvious, but worth more late than ever. The problem is that the reality of a budget is not the intervention of the Prime Minister, it is not the report of the State budget. A Budget is an instrument for obtaining revenue and showing choices in its distribution. The evaluation of the effective priority given to an area is measured by the resources made available and, in this criterion, health is clearly not a priority in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u156	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u157	It is not as follows: firstly, Mr Prime Minister mentioned an increase of EUR 900 million. It is true that there is this increase, but it is not in health expenditure! Health expenditure increases only EUR 303 million, i.e. 2, 8 %. at the same time, total primary expenditure increases 4, 9 %. This is in the other areas that the government controls, spending increases more than health expenditure, and this causes the burden of spending on the health programme, in total primary expenditure, to fall from 12 % to 12 %, 6 % in this Budget. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] My first question is therefore the following: how is it possible for the Prime Minister to say that health is the main priority of this government when, in the distribution of funds, the share of the budget package for health is lower in the State budget for 2020 than it was in the State budget for 2019? [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, such an increase of 900 million you mentioned, a real and important increase, is, firstly, to reduce the subordination, which in 2019 was about 750 million euros, which means that only 200 million are left for all the measures that Mr Prime Minister mentioned in his speech. So I ask you the second question, Prime Minister : knowing that in the previous four years SNS expenditure has grown by more than 4 % per year, how is it that, with a growth of 2 %, all these gains to improve the quality of service have not been achieved by 2020, on the contrary, a degradation of the SNS caused by such low expenditure growth? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u158	To conclude this first set of requests for clarification, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, today we are discussing this as the first of four budgets of this Parliament, a budget which consolidates what we have achieved in the past four years and which continues to make progress, as Mr Prime Minister mentioned here in the initial intervention. It is a Budget which thus gives continuity to a path of sustainable growth, a way of reducing social inequalities and increasing family income, and which, for the first time since 25 April, presents a positive budget balance. We are on the right track, as well as express, the economic prospects for growth of the Portuguese economy, the forecast of export growth and investment and the reduction of unemployment in a framework of consolidation of public accounts. The reality is that this financial balance framework is also important for regional efforts in the process of economic development, well-being and quality of life in autonomous regions. At the same time, it is important to highlight three points of this Budget, which are important for the Azores and Madeira : firstly, the full compliance with the law of regional finances, which did not happen with the PSD Government / CDS ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u160	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u161	... secondly, national solidarity, which is demonstrated in this Budget by participation of 85 % in the recovery of damage caused by Hurricane Lorenzo or, even in the financial participation of public service obligations of inter-rail air transport; and thirdly, the clear fulfilment of the State's commitments with the regions, in particular with the Azores, such as economic revitalization and aid to the Third Island, to the prison establishment in São Miguel, to the meteorological radar network or to the Horta Airport. We know that the opposition will keep its record, stressing that the promises are not fulfilled, ignoring the steps that have already been taken in each of these commitments and, above all, ignoring that we speak of ancient Azorian claims and that it was only with the previous socialist government that saw the light of the day. However, we do not fail to recognize the complexity of these dossiers, but we have evidence. Mr Prime Minister has evidence of solidarity, justice and work for the Azores and Madeira. Therefore, Prime Minister, recognizing the complexity of many of these regional cases, I wonder how you see the contribution of this Budget in their efforts to implement them. To conclude, and because we can always do even more and better, we urge that we continue to take decisive steps towards the development of our autonomous regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u162	To answer the questions of the Members of the House and of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u163	Madam President, I particularly greet on this occasion, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, there is one thing I want to assure you about the country: we will not let you go down the river!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u164	It's been a river down with this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u165	We really have to keep it in the right direction. But it does not stop being moving to hear Mr Duarte Pacheco. Mr Rui Rio can still say that he was many years away from the Assembly of the Republic, now Mr Rui Rio, who was here to approve the 2012 State Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u166	O 2013!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u167	...with a gigantic increase in taxes, which voted in the previous legislature against all budgets that ended this gigantic increase in taxes, do you come to talk about tax burden? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u168	It's true! It's increased more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u169	Mr Duarte Pacheco, a minimum of consistency! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jorge Costa, we do not have in our Government programme the reduction of electricity VAT because we feel that we are socially unfair and environmentally irresponsible. In fact, all studies show that this reduction benefits only 16 % people with low income and all the benefit goes to people with higher income. If we really want to have a measure to tackle energy poverty, we must revisit as we have already adopted in the Budget of the previous Parliament, in which the Left Block has, in fact, made a decisive contribution in this matter. What we have been trying to do was to give strategic coherence to a measure which, unfortunately, many parties had presented to the country, in order to ensure that it is socially, at least fair, differentiating it depending on the levels of consumption, and environmentally responsible, so that there is greater energy efficiency and more responsible consumption. The answer we had from the European Commission was positive, it was in order to move forward. We will work to be able to move forward and reduce the damage to the wrong measure, which has been defended, in particular, by the Left Block. Mr. João Oliveira, the budget surplus also responds to a problem in the country, and this problem in the country is called « debt ». This is a problem, in fact, in which the PCP has repeatedly put its finger on the wound on its gravity. He is today a great conditioner of the future, but he is also a conditioner of the present, for the amount we have to pay interest. It is thanks to good budgetary management that we have come to free ourselves from this burden and thus to be able to allocate resources for what is necessary. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Therefore, in the Budget, we must try to respond positively to the various problems that we have to solve. We have staff problems, it is true, and so, as you know, we have changed the ratio of operational assistants in schools, we have a measure to increase professionals in the National Health Service by more 8400, we have a standard in order to have for the first time a multi-annual programming of human resources in our security forces. And we have to continue in that answer. Speaking of young families, this Budget gives them concrete answers. It gives concrete answers to the IRS exemption in the first years of activity; it gives concrete answers to the creation of the complement-creche; it gives concrete answers to the measures we have adopted for housing policies and I am sure that, in the context of the discussions we have maintained, we will be able to improve these support, particularly with regard to daycare, as well as we will be able to improve this budget proposal in other areas. Mrs Cristina Rodrigues, as regards the golden visas, the State budget contains a proposal for legislative authorisation. And we agree: it is necessary to revisit this instrument, so that it will, above all, cease to be an instrument that has such a negative externality in the cost of housing in the main urban centres. Mrs Mariana Silva, we have many opportunities to discuss the issue of lithium and during the discussion of the Budget is certainly not the best time to do so. But there is one thing I would like to say to you: there are no cuts in investment, there is an increase in investment and this increase is translated into the Budget. Mr Álvaro Almeida, 60% of the expenditure of the central administration in the previous legislation was precisely with health. So it's not a new priority. What actually increases is the ambition in this Budget. And it increases for a fundamental reason! Unlike what Mr Duarte Pacheco has tried to describe, we do not pretend that the problems do not exist, we do not have the country's view as an oasis, we do not have the country's vision with the pink eyes. We have the vision of a country that has problems and our function is to solve these problems. So when we strengthen the initial health budget in EUR 941 million, it is because we think there is a problem to solve. When we anticipate payment of late payments so that this year begins with a National Health Service unburdened with a charge of EUR 700 million of late payments, it is because we recognize that there is a problem and we are responding to the problem. What we do not do is pretend that the problem does not exist, nor do we believe that it is with a cut of EUR 1400 million in health investment, as was done in the PSD government, that we have managed to solve health problems. We are solving health problems with increasing investment, with better human resources, with the reforms needed to increase the efficiency of the system, either with family health units or with the creation of integrated responsibility centres. The proof that this policy is worth it is that today we have more consultations and more surgeries. This is the measure of this government's action. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Marina Gonçalves, we will continue the fight against inequalities and will do so in a logic of generational solidarity. With us there is no ‘grey plague’ and there are young people who are invited to emigrate. [[PSD protests.]] All are necessary and the country is only one. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Lara Martinho, we will pursue our active solidarity policy with the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, because we are only strengthening the national unity that Madeira and the Azores are an essential part. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u170	Let's continue with the requests for clarification. Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u171	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in the presentation, in general, Mr Finance Minister made it very clear that the criterion of this Budget is budgetary surplus. This option for a surplus has a price: there is a political price, there is a social price, there is an economic price to want to present a Budget which limits the recovery of income not to the possibilities of the country, but to the budgetary whim of the Government. It is very difficult to convince public officials that, after a decade of cuts and freezings, the country can invest only EUR 40 million net in human resources recovery, which every day guarantee the security, education, health and all the public services that the country needs. to public servants who have lost more than 11 % of purchasing power in the last decade, it is very difficult to explain that what the government now proposes is to enter into its purchasing power by 2020. What the Government proposes to them is increases of 6 cents per day for operational assistants or technical assistants and 8, 10, 12 cents per day for thousands of senior technicians. The last four budgets, worse than this, according to Mr. Prime Minister, have returned to public officials in progress, in the return of cuts and in the decrease of the IRS much more income, in liquid terms, than that which is proposed to return. Therefore, the proposal for an increase of 0, 3 % in the salaries of civil servants is unacceptable and is unfair, above all, in relation to the lower salaries of the civil service. It is a provocation, because public officials know that the country can more, and they know - not because they invented it, but because they heard the Minister of Finance say that the country can more. An increase of 0, 3 % is insufficient and the Left Block has not been tired of saying. The Government has already noted that it recognises that this increase is insufficient. What I wanted to ask is whether this recognition is to be taken seriously, because, if it is, it has to be meaningful in people's pocket, and what is the value of that intention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u172	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u173	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, this bill could not fail to recognize the lack of professionals who ensure unforeseeable social functions. The problem is that, particularly with regard to sovereignty functions, this recognition does not take the proper consequences. Article 22. the proposal for a law states that the Government « prepares and disseminates a multiannual forecast of the entry and exit of workers into the Public Administration » and « plans the measures necessary to supply the needs ». Mr. Prime Minister, what is needed for these needs to be identified? Has the Government not yet identified essential aspects in which there are clearly missing professionals in the Public Administration, taking into account the age level of employees of the Public Administration and the predictability of retirements in the coming years? Mr. Prime Minister, will we see: in sovereign functions, does the government not know the lack of effective forces and security services? Oh, my God! Is the government unable to say how many GNR ( Republican National Guard ) and PSP ( Public Security Police) professionals need to admit in the coming years to meet the essential needs of these security forces and services? Mr. Prime Minister, if we compare the latest Annual Internal Security Report, which is 2019, with 2015, we see that in these years there has been no increase in all security forces and services; on the contrary there is a deficit of 240 effective in these years. The numbers are not ours, they are the numbers of the internal security reports submitted by the government. Therefore, the articulated state budget does not suffice to recognize evidence. What is needed is to have forecasts, concrete targets to be achieved by 2020 and, of course, in the following years. We have all talked a lot about the need to combat corruption, but, Prime Minister, there will not be an effective fight, in criminal investigation, if the shortage of judicial police officers remains, in which not half of the staff are currently filled.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u175	The State budget cannot ignore this reality, it cannot ignore the necessary investment in the security of Portuguese and civil protection, as it cannot ignore the more than 1000 employees who are missing in the courts, as it cannot ignore the 1500 employees who are missing in the Registers and Notariado, as it cannot ignore the hundreds of employees who are missing in the reintegration and prison services. Mr Prime Minister, the essential question to be raised today is what the Government's willingness to put the points to us in Article 22. the, setting concrete and measurable objectives to be achieved in relation to the effectives necessary to ensure these essential functions in matters of sovereignty, which are impertent. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u176	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Prime Minister in our country, we have taken a few steps in animal protection, such as their recognition as sensitive beings, the end of slaughter in the municipal canies or the end of the use of animals in the circus. This is the same country where the social movement of struggle for animal protection is increasingly strong, so it is incomprehensible a Budget in contradiction with this growing social sensitivity to animal protection and which disregards people who have a pet or even associations and informal groups that daily replace the role of the State. This is a Budget that does not give solutions to abandoned animals, to animals torn apart in the context of domestic violence, to horses left to starve throughout the country, to animals imprisoned in the circus, which are being sold to countries where there are no animal protection rules, because the Government has forgotten to regulate the law; and this is a country in which the protection of animal protection is located at DGAV ( Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary), a general directorate hostage to the interests of bullurachia, hunting and intensive livestock.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u178	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u179	Mr. Prime Minister announced that this is the best budget the country can have, the best it has ever had. The truth is that, for the dignity of animals, this Budget is just one more: it is a Budget where there is no political will to do what is necessary in the field of animal protection. Mr. Prime Minister, the protection of animals must have a macro, structured, inter-ministerial vision and the proposal that this government brings us is full of loose ends, because there is no national strategy, there is no overall view of the needs, of the actors, of the various animals that need protection and of the means that are necessary for this strategy to happen effectively. There was no lack of NAP proposals in this regard. Is the Government available to discuss these points in the field of specialty? Mr Prime Minister, do people in Portugal need to know: will the government ensure that there is prevention of abandonment, that there is no lack of veterinary doctors in the municipal canies, that there is facilitation of the municipal candidacy processes to the funds made available and that there is an increase in them to meet the real needs? Is the Government available to lower the VAT applicable to the purchase of products intended for pet feeding and the provision of medical and veterinary services? These are just a few questions, of the many that we could put in animal protection, in order at least to start a path that has to be taken — there is political will! [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u180	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u181	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, health is undoubtedly a strong commitment to better respond to Portuguese and growing needs. This is a good budget too, because it has health as a reinforced priority. By continuing to the previous budgets, health is assumed to be a reinforced priority in this Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u183	This results in measures to improve the response of the SNS, to strengthen the budget allocation by more than EUR 941 million, to hire more than 8400 health professionals, to define the multiannual investment plan with 190 million, to strengthen investment in facilities and equipment, both in new hospitals and in the re-qualification of emergencies, health centres and other equipment, and also in the redoubled effort to improve the management of the SNS units. The Portuguese and Portuguese value the SNS and it is because they trust that they demand more. That is why we all have a responsibility to strengthen and value. We cannot agree with those who want to destroy it, because we know that the SNS is the instrument of access to equality for all Portuguese. Well, we know that some people only put it as a priority when they're in opposition. Just see the budget allocations from 2010 to 2015 to verify that spending on SNS fell much more than total public expenditure—and I say this to the PSD, which has still stated its opposite! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We see who makes politics based solely on the « foam of the days », on the news, on the case policy and wants to privatize the SNS. We are here to defend the SNS and strengthen the service provided to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is done with more investment and better management, which is what this Budget contains. This Government and the Socialist Party want this to continue to be, that the service provided should be strengthened to better meet the needs of Portuguese at various levels. Therefore, Prime Minister, this being an investment in public policy implementation, we are sure that its implementation will be a challenge that will be achieved in improving people's lives, in greater social and territorial cohesion and in providing better health care. That is what I ask you to do, because that is certainly what the Portuguese are waiting for. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u184	To request clarification, Mr José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u185	Mr President, Prime Minister, there are 166,000 people who benefit from the solidarity supplement for the elderly. The existence of the ISC does not replace the need to increase pensions or end cuts that are unfair and that remain, such as that resulting from the sustainability factor. But it is indisputable that the CIS has enormous virtue: it is a provision to combat the poverty of the elderly, which ends up being a counterweight to very low pensions and to short and poor contributory careers, especially of women who have worked very hard, but who have few discounts. The effectiveness of the ISC results from being a concentrated response in this universe of poor elderly people and, in recent years, we have increased the reference value and included in the supplement pensioners in anticipation, which we call « the injuries of the former Minister of the CDS Mota Soares ». But the rules of this supplement for the elderly have two major problems. The first is that, contrary to what happened when it was created, the CSI's reference value took off the poverty threshold. Those who receive the CIS today continue with income below the poverty threshold. And that is the first structural change that needs to be made: at least index it to the poverty line. We are talking about an increase of 60 € per month, and this hiatus has to be corrected before 2023. We note that the Government has accepted that increase to be made this year and next year. The other problem is the allocation of the ISC to continue to depend not only on the poverty situation of the elderly but also on the income of their children. For many years we have challenged this rule, which excludes from the provision people who need it. Moreover, this is a form of humiliation of the elderly, who disrespects their autonomy, who treats them as if they were under the dependence and protection of others and suggests that the elderly prosecute their children in court, if they do not pay them alimony. We have repeatedly proposed the elimination of this rule and, more than once, this proposal has been voted on in this Parliament by the Socialist Party. We therefore note that the Government has changed its position — indeed, the position it had in recent years and in previous budgets — and has now accepted that the income of children is no longer considered for the purposes of the allocation of the CIS, not only in paragraph 1. the step but also in the 2. o is 3. the, already this year of 2020, thus taking a decisive step to end this criterion, which is completely absurd. We are not just going to have a budget that addresses all the problems of pensioners and social justice — there are many problems to be solved — but we are making one of the progress that will enable us to continue for the debate in the field. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u186	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u187	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the budget proposal there are no concrete commitments to respond to the lack of investment and workers in the social functions of the State and public services. These concrete commitments are essential to put an end to the barriers to access of users to health care, to the lack of conditions of operation in schools, to de-investment in the culture, the lack and the professional, social and remuneration of workers. In health, an SNS budget is announced to ensure the funds that were implemented in 2019, which have proved insufficient. It is necessary to go further in strengthening the SNS: effectively increasing the response capacity, with extended working hours; reducing waiting times for consultations, surgeries, examinations and treatments; increasing the number of continuous and palliative care teams; extending valences in primary health care; replacing obsolete equipment; building the necessary health units; and ending the transfer of public resources to private groups. It refers to the objective of hiring 8400 health workers, but what are the effective needs? How many will be retired in the coming years? What measures will be taken to prevent workers from leaving the SNS because they feel demotivated and devalued? in another context, education and culture did not deserve the attention of the Prime Minister in his speech, which alone is a matter of concern, especially when necessary: hiring thousands of specialized educational and technical assistants; effectively valuing teachers, accounting for all the time of service provided and linking them; retraining the facilities of schools, including the removal of asbestos; strengthening the means for a true inclusive school; extending the public network of pre-school education. As far as culture is concerned, it does not seem enough to be. The budget for culture is far from 1 %. It is necessary to undertake to strengthen support for the arts, starting with preventing the results of the last competition from determining the end of the artistic activity of many structures. It is necessary to invest in the requalification of the heritage and to equip the museums, palaces, monuments and archaeological sites of the necessary means. So, Prime Minister, what commitments does the Government ultimately make for the final resolution of these problems? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u188	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, in the past State budget, we reached an agreement and the Bloc was able to ensure in negotiations with the Socialist Party and the Government that the maximum ceiling for public higher education was reduced. at the end of more than 20 years with the propinas always increasing, we achieved a historical victory, which supports families and students and, more than that, reflects the political and ideological debate on the role of the social state, in the sense of knowing whether it only serves as a sign for charity or is actually used to promote free, universal and quality public higher education. We have thus strengthened the rights of young people who do not give up studying in our country. We are well aware that the adopters of the neoliberal logic of the user-payer have closed ranks when we gradually approached the practical implementation of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, which referred to in Article 74. the, that teaching is public and free at all levels. And that only means an obvious thing: we are right and the path can only be to end the tips. The measure, announced today by the Left Block, a further reduction of the propines by 20 % is another achievement, despite the Government's programme saying nothing about it. And I am glad that we have reached this agreement, because it is another historic moment for the student movement, for the social state and for Portuguese higher education. We now have the responsibility to give body to one of the concerns presented in the State of Education of the CNE ( National Council for Education ). We are one of the countries where the gap between the value of propines and that of the bags is more alarming. For this reason, the agreement also envisages that the reduction of propines is accompanied by the maintenance of the value of scholarships for licensees and masters at the maximum historical value of propines. Only in this way, Mr. Prime Minister, do we agree with the best examples where the social state is not a charm but is well present in people's lives. Less tips and more bags: we know that this proposal is smaller than that of the State Budget for 2019, because last year we reduced the propines by more than 200 € and this year the reduction will be of 170 €. Even so, it is an important achievement, although it has been achieved by irons, almost the day we started to hold this debate. But there is one thing that is right, Mr Prime Minister: the way is, of course, to put an end to the tips. Don't you agree? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u190	To answer this set of questions, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u191	Madam President, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, first, the surplus is not an obsession, the surplus is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u192	Option!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u193	Option, option! As I was saying, the surplus is the result of a policy and we need to know what the way was. The last surplus was 1973, but at that time the public expenditure was 20 % of gross domestic product. Today, public expenditure is 43 % of gross domestic product — 43 % of gross domestic product! The last time public expenditure was so high in the Product was in 1981 and the deficit was 12 %. We did not reach this surplus at the cost of cutting the cost of spending or at the cost of rising taxes. It has been ensured thanks to good economic growth, good employment growth and also, allow me to say it, good budgetary management by the Minister of Finance and all the colleagues who work with it and with us. Secondly, on the incomes of the Public Administration, Mrs Deputy, what was really new was that there was an annual update. It's true! In the previous legislation, we eliminated cuts and eliminated freezings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u194	What about this budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u195	This budget will continue to eliminate cuts, will conclude the thawings and will still add, which is best, an annual update, which was not foreseen in the previous budgets. So here is an excellent example of how best it is. You tell me the honourable Member that last year inflation was low. It's true! It's not necessarily bad.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u196	It's not good either!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u197	The proposal we have tabled is for 2020 and 2021, with the aim of ensuring that the principle of the annual update has come to remain, and it really remains, and we are committed to maintaining the same criterion for next year. Of course, we are still in the negotiating process with the unions and we are available to consider proposals with the workers' representative organisations that allow us to go beyond what our original proposal was. But this is a negotiation process that is under way and I hope it will reach the right port. Regarding the questions put by Mr António Filipe, I would like to tell you that what the internal security report records is that between 2016 and 2019 we had an overall increase of 107 % in security forces and services, 23 % in the GNR, 319 % in the PSP and 100 % in the Foreign and Border Service inspectors. Even in April, 120 new inspectors of the Judicial Police took possession, which will already benefit from the new status of professionals of the Judicial Police. That we have to continue this journey, we both know we do. As you know, we've known each other for many years and I've had to manage the same deficiencies twice in two of these ministries. It's not a new problem. What is new is that for the first time, we have a continuous and oriented path to structurally solve this problem. I therefore suggest that, in addition to Article 22. the, as you read, also read Article 140. the, where for the first time, the existence of a multi-annual human resources plan for the security forces is envisaged. Mrs Bebiana Cunha, of course, we are available to deal with all these issues in the field of expertise and to approve some of those she referred to in her speech. Having two candies in my house, I'd like them to be approved, but I'm afraid they won't. The fact is that some of the problems that it poses are not central administration. I ask you to speak with your colleague Inês de Sousa Real, who has a long experience in the municipal area and can testify to what, for example, has been done at times, and is still an example of good practice in the city of Lisbon. Mr José Soeiro, although we have agreed on improving the conditions of resources for the allocation of the CSI, we also share the ambition to bring the CSI together with the poverty threshold and, above all, we also recognize that the CSI is the most effective instrument for combating poverty among the elderly. Mr Luís Monteiro, yes, it is true that we reached agreement yesterday — it was worth not having reached agreement on 12 November, when we first met, but better late than ever — and there is still a lot of work to do in the field of expertise. But I leave only one note: the expected reduction for propines is exactly the same as last year, that is, 20 %. Of course, when the value affects a smaller base, it is evident that the product is also, himself, smaller. Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Hortense Martins, health is a priority. And it is a priority in its different dimensions: improving investment, accelerating the elimination of moderate rates, strengthening staff and improving management, especially by valuing family health units and integrated responsibility centres, in order to have a more efficient management of the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the various issues you have had the opportunity to raise. Sooner and tomorrow you will have the opportunity to continue the debate with the Minister of Finance, with the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, with the Minister of Health and probably also with the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. To conclude my speech in this debate, I would like to say the following: of course, the Government has the Assembly of the Republic, and its contribution, to have an even better budget than this proposal, which has been the best of the last five years. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u198	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We will now move on to the intervention period. To that end, Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u199	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Portuguese today require of all of us is that the debate of the State budget for 2020 be held seriously and responsibly and that it first place the interest of Portugal and the Portuguese. This was the commitment which the PSD has made since its presentation and which has led to an analysis, an evaluation and a decision on our sense of vote. The State budget for 2020 is presented by this Government as a continuity budget. Continuity in this budget represents a total lack of ambition, a lack of commitment to the future, a omission of responsibilities. And abdicating a strategy for Portugal and for Portuguese is, my gentlemen, abdicating the future. When the Socialist Party began ruling in 2016, GDP per capita in purchasing power parities in Portugal was 77, 1% of the European average. This means that the wealth produced placed the country in 18. the position on the scale of European prosperity. There were, then, 17 richest countries and 10 poorer countries. In 2018, the annual wealth produced in Portugal had fallen to 76, 8 % of the European average. In 2018, we had fallen to 21. the place on the scale of prosperity. We had only seven, not ten, countries ago. We no longer had 17 countries ahead of us, but 20. in these four years of socialist governance, unlike the government discourse, the truth is that we have not progressed, we have returned. After the mandate of the Government of Management, which affirms the greatest growth of the century, we are no longer rich, we are poorer. What this means is that we are not in the course of convergence, but of divergence towards Europe. In the first three years of socialist governance, we were overtaken successively by Estonia, Lithuania and Slovakia. If this trend is not reversed, we will soon be overcome by Poland and Hungary. This is the reality. And we well know that looking at reality has been a challenge for the government over the past four years. But what does this Budget bring us to reverse this trend? How does this budget look at economic growth? The answer to this last question is clear: do not look, ignore. It makes the discourse of continuity, which means that Portugal continues to keep in the same path of backwardness, of divergence with Europe and to close its eyes to the real difficulties that pass through Portuguese daily, which, despite hearing promises of more wages and better conditions, are subject to a greater tax burden, as we have heard here today in the debate, and to a lower quality of the services that the State must provide. When this budget proposal speaks of economic growth it is to reaffirm Portugal's successive fall to the European league of the latter. This is not the way we want. The attitude that the Socialist Party fosters is the lack of ambition for the country — a hatred for the little one. There is not even recognition of the problem, the greater the mobilization of the instruments to confront it. In order to grow and prosper, we have to invest. We need to invest a lot more than we do. Without more investment, technological modernization and sustained increase in productivity are impossible. And without a sustained increase in productivity, we will be condemned to impoverishment and to diverge more and more from our European partners. Current investment levels are barely enough to restore the capital spent annually. There is no mystery that productivity in Portugal is having truly depressing performances. The capital per worker fell every year between 2016 and 2019, did not increase. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Only with a drastic reversal of this trend is it possible to regain significant productivity gains which guarantee the future of Portuguese people, which allow us to escape the threat of impoverishment and ensure that tomorrow, and from here many years, there is, for example, money to pay the pensions that the Portuguese believe — and well — they will pay them. How does this Budget for Productivity Disease in Portugal look? Don't look. Make sure it doesn't exist. Actually, if I don't recognize the disease, I don't care. This is a fact and that is what this budget reflects. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To invest much more, you need two: either save much more or use the savings of others, which means that I will be indebted. Since Portugal is today one of the most indebted countries in the world, the logical path can only be that of saving. It is imperative that we continue the external debt process initiated in 2014. Let us not forget that it was the huge volume of external debt that dragged us to the collapse in 2010 and to the rescue in 2011. If we are aware of this, we know that there is no room for debt anymore. But the problem is that no country in Europe, except Greece, saves as little as we do. Our families save half of what European families save on average. And the question is, how does the State budget look at the serious lack of internal savings? Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't look, ignore. We learned from UTAO ( Technical Budget Support Unit) that the macroeconomic scenario of the Ministry of Finance assumes that the savings of families will fall again in 2020. Until when will savings continue to fall in Portugal, so that the Government will agree to this severe restriction on investment and sustained growth? This is a reality with too much importance not to look forward to it. But let us be clear: for savings to increase, income from families must also increase and for income to increase more than consumption — which is what the government knows is not going to happen by 2020 — incentives need to be made. We need to look at savings as we should look, we need to have the State budget look at this reality as well. The government assumes that it knows this is the scenario for this year, but, frankly, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's nothing to avoid. Worse: this Budget brings us exactly the opposite of what the country needs today. As we have seen today, the debate has been marked by this need to affirm reality and the truth is that there is more tax burden, which means less income available, so less savings. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you may call it what you want, but what this budget brings, we have seen today and it has become clear to all, except for those who do not want to see, it has no other name if it does not increase the tax burden. The government has announced, year after year, that the tax burden will be reduced. It has already been years since it announced even as the central axis of fiscal policy the low tax burden. Then, for the unhappiness of all, that never happened. So when the Budget comes to promise us, in the head, the increase in tax burden is more than reason for alarm. The government has always executed the opposite and has worsened. It is a government with a problem of "tax dependence" and now presents an increase of 0, 2 % of GDP in the tax burden. It is more income that goes to the state safes and is withdrawn from the Portuguese income. The Portuguese know well that there is an increase in the tax burden. The Portuguese feel good in their pocket that their income is decreasing. This must therefore be made very clear in this debate of the State budget. [[PSD applause.]] There is no mystery in the definition of savings in Portugal. As we have already seen, with the share of income that the Portuguese reserves for taxes and contributions to increase each year, it is natural that nothing about saving or making saving difficult. But let's stop a little to reflect and think a little about what this Budget brings us. Are we paying more and more taxes because we have better services? What does the Government take out more of the Portuguese income than it is to return them in quality to the services it provides them? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no numbers, indicators, graphs or tables here that can help the government to hide the facts. There is no way to tell the citizens that services are improving, when this narrative directly conflicts with the perception of Portuguese and all professionals, that in public services they are the first victims of the breach of the service contract of the State to the citizens—in health, education, security, protection of people and goods, in social security, in justice. Here there is no way to deceive the Portuguese: the state is failing them every day and, by betting on a continuity budget that does not take the mistakes, it is saying that it has no intention to stop failing them. This is the truth, this is a cause for great concern in this State budget and with this government. [[PSD applause.]] The government says that 2020 is going to be the year of health, it says it will strengthen the health allocation by about EUR 1000 million, which is actually less than half of it — a fraction of the promised that will not be enough to pay the debts, as we have seen today. Paying debts is not to reinforce anything at all, it is to pay what has already been consumed, which has already been spent. That's right. It's not worth saying a different thing. How does this translate into placing health as a priority? No government has done both against the SNS and what has dropped health in this lamentable state. [[PSD applause.]] And they're not, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches of strengthening appropriations that will change reality, as are not the speeches of the government that will solve the very serious deficit of public investment. Without State investment, it is impossible to halt the alarming deterioration of public services. The Government promises by 2020 a public investment effort exactly as it proposed in the previous budget, and which has largely not been carried out, as we have seen today in the debate. If this time is fulfilled, what this Executive will do in 2020 is what the Country did in 2015 — 2, 3 % of GDP. Is this the government's ambition to do the same as we did in the days of austerity? Oh, my God! But the worst thing is, we have serious doubts about even reaching that value. Just figure out what's happened in the last few years. For the PSD, this Budget also does not respond to four essential objectives: to grow again, at least enough, to get closer to European levels of well-being and to ensure the future; to look at the economy and the bottlenecks it faces in critical areas such as saving, investment and productivity; to start reducing the tax burden and concentrating resources to invest in improving public services. None of the four legitimate objectives of all Portuguese are recognized, welcomed and advocated in this Budget. The worst way to escape problems is to ignore them and that is what this Budget does. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a budget of withdrawal. This is not the budget that the Portuguese need for today and tomorrow. This budget is not for the Portuguese workers who invest. This is a bad budget for families and businesses. This is a Budget that has no strategy or direction for Portugal. The PSD has an alternative to this socialist governance with another way to Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, we voted against this proposal for a State budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u200	Mr President, the Bureau has registered Mr João Paulo Correia to request clarification, to whom I shall immediately give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u201	Mr President, Mr Afonso Oliveira, in fact the PSD is in apparent difficulty in criticizing this budget and justifying its vote against. He said that the PSD has alternatives, but he did not present a single one in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u202	That's next!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u203	Specialty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u204	Those at home who are attending this debate realize the sadness of political alternatives that the PSD has to justify their vote against. Mr President, we have spent years hearing the PSD say that the devil was in the deficit of the public accounts, that the devil was in high charge of the interest of the public debt and that the devil was in the high public debt. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] The fact is that, at a time when public debt interest is in historical minimums, below Spain and Italy, at a time when we have a Budget that presents a positive balance of public administrations and at a time when we have a continuous downward trajectory of public debt, the PSD sees a problem and sees the devil in it. It is unacceptable, and it was what was missing, to hear the PSD find the devil in the budget surplus, in the fall of public debt and in the historical minimum interest of our public debt. Our economy, Mr. Member, has grown above the European average in recent years, has grown above the European average in 2017, in 2018, in 2019, and will grow above the European average in 2020. And you know why, Your Honor? Because the good policies, which have always had the vote against the PSD and the right, are reinforced in this State budget. It was these good policies that led to the growth of the economy, the creation of 350 000 jobs, the reduction of poverty and also the increase in the income available to families. It was you who said in 2016 that no investor, national or foreign, was available to invest in a country governed by the Socialist Party with parliamentary support from the PCP and the Left Block. Well, Mr President, I will give you two figures that are exemplifying what these past four years have been and what the future will be. In March 2019, foreign direct investment struck the historical record in Portugal. This speaks well of the trust and credibility that this government has outside the country. In 2019, the record was struck as to the number of new companies created in Portugal, a number that has grown three consecutive years. The increase in the available income of families will again be a reality in 2020 — it will grow 3, 2 %, while private consumption will grow 2 %, which means that we will enter a visible cycle of recovery and increase the available income of families to generate more savings, which is what is intended. This will not be done through your proposals, that we already know the results — I speak from 2011 to 2015 — but on account of the good policies that led Portugal back to the path of economic growth. Finally, we would like to expose the PSD's speech in relation to the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u205	It won't be easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u206	Mr Deputy, within the OECD's world, the country that has been most taxed on labour income between 2011 and 2015 was Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] According to the OECD, in 2018, Portugal was one of the countries that most came down the tax burden on labour incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More, Mr. Member : The National Institute of Statistics, in its last bulletin on tax revenue, clearly states that tax revenue has risen to account for the good performance of our economy. With more than 350 000 jobs, there are more people who contribute to social security, although the rates have remained unchanged. With more than 350 000 jobs, there are more people to pay for IRS. It is natural that, despite the IRS coming down, tax revenue will grow, because there are more people working. It is natural that VAT revenue rises because there is more consumption. Every year consumption rises and we know that VAT did not rise, on the contrary, even down in the area of restoration. Furthermore, the PSD beats its chest to defend the fall in tax burden, but voted against the end of the overtax of IRS and the fall in VAT for restoration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr, the reality will be this in 2020 : the tax burden on labour income will continue to decline and thus increase the income available to families. So we will see savings grow in a new cycle that will certainly be healthy for our economy and for the public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u207	In reply, Mr Afonso Oliveira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr João Paulo Correia, I am very grateful for the questions you have raised. I saw him, with some enthusiasm, defending the State budget, which I understand, but I also noticed that it was the only one who came to the game to talk about him, which is a little strange. I already realized that Mr. Prime Minister, during this afternoon, had some relationship, in public, with the Left Block. It was nice to realize that and I also understand that moment. On the issues you have raised, let me tell you, because I think it is very important to talk about this, the following: do not forget that before 2011 — I think you have forgotten — who was in the government was the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u209	Years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u210	Years ago, didn't you? Oh, my God! It was we who had to recover the country because of a government of the Socialist Party that led Portugal to bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]] It is therefore necessary to take serious action. You have to say it! You need to unmask! Then let me also tell you, Mr. João Paulo Correia, that what is being discussed here today is the Budget of the State of the Government, not the Budget of the State of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u211	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u212	This is not the State budget that the PSD would do if it were government. We have already said here what our proposals are, but I think there are people from the Socialist Party who have been a little unattended. The election campaign was very long, there was a lot of information, very detailed, but if you want to, tomorrow I will bring to the plenary our electoral programme and our proposals if the Social Democratic Party were Government. If you want, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u213	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u214	Let me also tell you something that seems very relevant to me. The alternative is very clear, Mr, and only those who are very distracted do not realize that there is an alternative to these policies. Only those who are perfectly distracted! We defend the bet on economic growth, definitely and seriously, and on the gradual reduction of taxes that the Portuguese bear. Look, the tax issue is very important. When we talk about the fiscal burden — this discussion is permanent and the Minister of Finance, at the first hearing on the budget proposal, it was difficult to recognise, as always, that the tax burden increases - the OECD data on its evolution refers to. And the latest data from 2018, Mr. Deputies, show that there was an evolution of 34, 4 % in 2017 to 35, 4 % in 2018. Therefore, the evolution of the tax burden in Portugal is increasing. Clearly, there is a growth in the weight of taxes and the weight that the Portuguese have of their income to the government. Clearly, there is an option we do not agree with. The government must realize — and this is a difference that separates us — that there can be no excess of State weight in Portuguese incomes. The Portuguese have to have some release, some ability to invest with the money they earn, with their income. Therefore, this policy is completely different from ours and we completely disagree with the position of the government. We advocate releasing the excess weight of the state on citizens and businesses, promoting the ability to create wealth, bet on productive public investment and necessary for the improvement of public supply to Portuguese, bet on the investment uptake, as Mr President said recently, and very well, for the growth of investment in Portugal. We agree, we accept this and I think it is a positive fact, it is a bet that must be made. We think it must be done much more. Freeing companies from difficulties to settle and work in Portugal is clearly an unforgettable fact. Portugal also has serious problems at this level and therefore there is a different policy on our part. The policy that you follow, the policy that the Socialist Party follows, the policy that the Government is always at the expense of more fiscal burden, more government burden in the economy, more inability to respond to the needs of Portuguese, more inability to respond to public services, less public investment capacity, promises of public investment and a state budget that is fictitious and that provides for an excess of expenditure that, after that, does not meet. Mr President, the alternative is very clear. Our alternative is completely different from what the Socialist Party now has in the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u215	For an intervention, Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u216	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: This budget proposal fulfils the words given to the Portuguese, consolidates the development path initiated in the previous legislation, prepares society and the state for the complex challenges of international life and guarantees solidarity among generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the best budget in the last five years. It has everything that was positive in the past and goes further in the reformist vision of the state and society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal for the State budget maintains, consolidates and develops the policy lines that have enabled them to restore income; to value work; to reduce taxes for families and for small and medium-sized enterprises; to reduce unemployment; to stimulate demand and domestic production; to continuously increase exports, foreign direct investment and, since 2017, to increase more than the average of the countries of the European Union ; to consolidate the path of reducing deficit and depreciation of public debt and to strengthen public investment in social functions, economic functions and sovereignty. But for those who still have doubts about the nature of the country's economic growth, I remember some of the data recently made public: the forecast of a growth of 7, 3 % in gross fixed capital formation, which has been an unprecedented increase since 2010 ; the foreign direct investment stock has reached a new peak in the third quarter of 2019, i.e. EUR 143 billion ; exports have grown steadily and national companies have been diversifying markets today, representing almost 44 % of GDP and involving around EUR 90 billion ; the foreign tourism revenue will have exceeded for the first time the EUR 18 billion, which illustrates the importance of this sector in the national economy and the confidence it has today in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to integrate into the State budget proposal the end of the seal tax for export credit operations with State guarantee, to work on tax incentives to promote exports, to promote the reinvestment of profits of small and medium-sized enterprises and to support digitisation, innovation and development are concrete examples of the commitment to tax reduction, economic growth and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget proposal also meets other strategic policy objectives: it respects the Government Programme, thus honouring the commitments and the words given to the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this attitude we improve the confidence of citizens in political life and make the door of demagogy and populism closer. This budget clearly assumes the political priorities that enable us to address the structural problems of society and the State, in particular, the continuity of the effort to value and qualify people, through the strengthening of investment in public school, universities and polytechnics, the qualification, the valorisation and modernisation of the Public Administration, with the hiring of quality resources and with specialized training to support the State and public entities in their mission; the decentralization and adoption of mechanisms of legitimacy and proximity of local and regional authorities, deepening the instruments that best serve development and cohesion. This is, in fact, a budget that brings power to people. There is also the preparation of the High Public Administration for the challenge of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union and to better serve the integration of Portugal into global life, as well as the preparation of our Armed Forces for the performance of external missions that are credible and magnifying the name of Portugal in the world. With this option, we consolidate the strengthening of the presence of our voice in international bodies, enhance the bond with Portuguese communities and the world of Portuguese and Lusophone language and culture. This is also a Budget that values Portugal's prestige in the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the Parliament is four years old, that this is the budget proposal for the first year and that how we enter the legislature will determine the trust of those who can invest and create wealth in the country. the wealth created and its fair distribution will depend on the living conditions of our citizens and on the improvement of their living conditions and will result in the strengthening or degradation of the level of trust they place in us. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that presenting a positive balance and reducing debt means: preparing the State to deal with the imponderables of international life, which are many and which are accentuated every day that passes; ensuring better conditions for the financing of their functions; having greater autonomy for their choices; and having more sense of responsibility and solidarity with younger generations, without forgetting the older and the more deprived. This proposal for a State Budget has all these challenges in a clear commitment to national interest, but, of course, it can still be improved with the contribution of the ladies and gentlemen. Members, legitimate representatives of the Portuguese people. We therefore count on the sense of state of all the political forces represented in this Parliament, emanating from our democracy and popular will, working to improve these proposals, with clarity of purpose, sense of national interest and rationality in the choices to be made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u217	They signed up to request clarifications from two Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u218	Together, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u219	Of course, Mr. Deputies. To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Peixoto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u220	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, after two weeks of the increase in the attacks on health professionals in the hospitals of this country and in which one young person was murdered on the most busy streets of Bragança and another in Lisbon at universities and well-accompanied restaurants, it is impressive that, so far, we have not heard a word from the Socialist Party about security and security forces, or the lack of them. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u221	Because speaking in security and security forces is talking in public investment, which is what you haven't done in recent years. [[PSD applause.]] You only heard Mr. Minister of Internal Administration today, or yesterday, on a television, announce a personal defense program for health professionals... [[PS protests.]] It was kind of like that... if it wasn't, it was what happened everywhere. [[PS protests.]] Take it easy! But are there personal defence programs for health professionals or not? Does the government want to implement these programmes or not? It's just that if you want, it's all right! You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because health professionals need to defend themselves against the atrocities that you have done to the National Health Service over the past four years. [[PSD applause.]] One thing may not have to do with the other, but cheating with captivating, by Minister Mário Centeno and by the Government in recent years also has very serious repercussions on the police, has a price and that price does not bring good results. The gentlemen. Do you know, by any chance, that in the PSP - and we are going to talk about security forces - 25% of the asset is over 50 years old? You know there's a permanent deficit of 1500 agents, because admissions never exceed exits? Do you know that more than 60 % of the teams' facilities are degraded? You know there are several teams that don't have elements to patrol? Do you know there's a ballistic vest for 50 men, because women don't have the right to these vests, in discrimination, which is completely absurd? More: in the GNR there is a deficit of 5100 agents, the vehicles pile up in parks because there is no money for their maintenance, there are territorial posts operating in three municipalities and only have two military patrols. In the Judicial Police (PJ ) what you value in this Budget is to cry out to the heavens! The Minister of Justice takes as priority the fight against corruption and economic and financial crime and then you arrive here and have a Budget which reduces investment expenditure in the PJ by 22 8%. Not even with the miracle of roses would you be able, if you wanted to, to fight corruption and economic and financial crime! [[PSD applause.]] The question is this, Mr President: in view of this picture, which is black, you see no harm at all? You don't see any harm in this, do you? Oh, my God! Do you not feel upset, outraged, with what is happening in the country with regard to the security forces and the investment that you should do and do not want to do? However, you are still in time for, as a matter of expertise, to accept some proposals that respond to justice and give dignity to the security forces of this country and to the public order that we have to have in the coming years. That is the question I want you to ask us: is this a government priority or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u222	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u223	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, I would like to congratulate you on your speech and tell you that the enthusiastic tone with which you referred to the State budget reminds me of a well-known popular saying: "Look at what I say, do not look at what I do. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is that, looking at your statements on the State budget and looking at what were the four years of implementation of the previous budgets, this leaves us very concerned and even perplexed. The honourable Member says that this is a continuity budget, which brings more investments, which has less taxes, which brings more income and better public services, but, looking at the practice of the government over these four years, comes to our head another popular saying: "Cato heated with cold water is afraid. Do not keep on seeking. ” You know, Mr. Member, Portuguese are being heated with four years of cuts and captivating, accounting juggling, more taxes and less public investment. That is why they can only be suspicious of what the next State budget is going to be. Believing that continuity means more than that, this is not a Budget, Mr. Member, it is a literary piece of pure fiction! We should say that's exactly the way it is. And so that in the future, no one will accuse the Government, nor the Prime Minister, nor the members of this government, nor the Members of the Socialist Party that he was deceived, I think that only that usual statement is missing: "any similarity to reality is pure fiction". This is what happens to this State Budget! [[PSD applause.]] This is a budget without ambition, this is a budget without vision of the future, without strategy, without direction and without responsibility. It is a budget that overburdens families and companies with more taxes and which, in return, does not bring more public investment, nor does it improve public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u224	What about job creation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u225	It is a Budget that does not give the economy the necessary conditions to grow, nor the Portuguese public services to which they have the right and which they deserve, both in health and in education, and in safety. I'm going to tell you about education, a sector about which, so far, we've heard little or nothing. The lack of resources, means, financing and public investment in the education sector is a problem recognized by everyone in the country. Unfortunately, the solutions to solve these problems are not in this State budget. Mr. Minister, who has a rare gift, that of invisibility, appears from time to time in public, with the usual propaganda, to say that there is a reinforcement of means and employees, when we have schools closed for lack of them, that there is more investment in the appreciation of teachers, when we have students without classes for lack of teachers, and he speaks in modernization and new technologies, in digital transition, when we have schools paralyzed for lack of means, sometimes to change a lamp, to repair a roof or even to replace a computer. This year, in the 2020 budget, the government comes with the usual conversation. He says that he will now update, strengthen, diversify resources and resources for schools, says that now it will be, that now there will be public investment that has not been carried out for four years. But at the same time it does something extraordinary: it cuts in budget appropriations, both for operation and for investment by 2020, especially when compared with 2019. For example, we have less than 17 % in the funds of the operational programme of basic and secondary education, less than 10 % in the funds for the School Park, less than 13 % in the projects for basic and secondary education compared to 2019. So, Mr. José Luís Carneiro, explain to me how this miracle will happen? How will it be possible, with this Budget, to solve the serious problems of lack of investment, lack of resources with which schools are being discussed in the country, from north to south, if there is less budget allocation, if there is indeed less resources and less money to do so? Explain to me there, explain to the Portuguese at home how this miracle will be operated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u226	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say that it was with some stupidity that I heard the questions that had just been put to the Socialist Party. This is for a very simple reason: because we have just found that your party leader not only does not dialogue with regional Members but also does not dialogue with his bankers. That is why we can understand the questions you just asked. I am explaining what I want to say - - - - - Protests from PSD Member Duarte Marques. Dr Rui Rio has put a set of seven questions to approve this budget and it is curious that none of these questions have now been brought to the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You may not be careful to read the statements of your leadership, but I will read them for you. Members may know what your party leader has said to ensure support for the Socialist Party's proposed budget. Mr. Rui Rio said that if the budget reduces the tax burden, if the budget decreases the public debt, if the budget reduces the deficit, if the budget increases the public investment, if the budget proposes the reform of the Public Administration and if we demonstrate that the budget aims to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u228	More! More!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u229	...we would have the favourable vote of the Social Democratic Party. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Now, I wanted to remember that when Dr. Rui Rio took over his leadership, the first statement he made was that the country would be first and only then the Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u230	And isn't politics the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u231	However, the proposal for a State Budget by 2020 reduces the tax burden on families and businesses, reduces public debt, reduces deficits, increases public investment and proposes to reform the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I must say that it was very carefully that I heard Dr. Rui Rio's statement and I was convinced... [[PSD protests.]] I didn't know it would provoke so much excitement!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u232	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for everyone to express themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u233	I wanted to tell you that I was convinced that, according to the interests of the country... [[PSD protests.]] Don't get excited, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no dialogue between the Members. I ask you to create conditions so that everyone can use the word in his own time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u235	I am convinced that you are so nervous because I am still going to talk about VAT and the PSD position on VAT! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I was pleased to participate in a debate on the TSF radio with one of your vice-presidents and was able to hear your position on reducing VAT in electricity, assuming three times that the PSD would maintain its proposal for VAT reduction. Since you mentioned it and here you wanted to invoke not a popular saying but Friar Thomas, when you said "Look at what he says, but don't look at what he does", I can declare in seven chapters how the PSD in six months has completely changed its position on VAT in electricity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u236	What about the questions?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u237	I will answer the questions, sir! Mr President, allow me to say that, speaking on VAT in July, the PSD stated: "We will present measures for the State budget, including the reduction of VAT to 6 %". In November, he reaffirmed what he said : « the PSD will present proposals to reduce VAT in electricity ». Then there was an interview by the former State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Paulo Nuncio, where it is said that the government will have no room to accommodate the reduction of VAT. Then, on 20 December, we heard Dr. Rui Rio claim that, after all, he only approved the reduction of VAT if it did not compromise the public accounts, i.e. the proposal for a reduction of VAT was on the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u238	What about the security forces?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u239	What does that mean? It means that such interest in the country, after all, gives in very quickly to the internal interest and party interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u240	And the cops don't serve the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u241	Mr President, I would like to tell you that the investments planned for the area of security under the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u242	It's better not to talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u243	... provide for more than 100 million investments in infrastructure, equipment, retraining and motivation of internal security professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u244	More promises!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u245	With regard to the question of investment in public school, either in basic and secondary education or in higher education, I would say that in 2015 investment in higher education was in the order of EUR 1804 million and that by 2020 an investment of more than EUR 2213 million is expected. For basic and secondary education, in 2015 we had an investment of EUR 5792 million and planned for 2020 EUR 6443 million. This means more investment in public school, more investment in state services. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u246	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u247	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has a new mantra: it has made its best ever budget. Let us then hold this debate beyond the slogan. What is the best budget? The one who eliminated cuts in pensions and wages or this one that updates them below the expected inflation? Salaries and pensions are now nominally higher, of course, but only in the first case, by eliminating cuts, if you recovered purchasing power. A State Budget is worth the response that at every moment gives to the country's problems, the difference it makes in people's lives. That is why the Government's proposal for the State budget today is no better than the previous budgets. She's her heiress, and still well, but we must never live only from inheritance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u248	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u249	There are no cuts in this budget, mechanisms for automatic minimum updating of pensions, social benefits and steps of IRS have been applied; basic support has been laid aside to combat poverty; free school textbooks guarantee the universality of compulsory education; it has ended with the subversion of more expensive collective transport than the private car. This budget depends on an economy which, with its difficulties, works rather than extraordinary revenues from ruinous privatizations that paid short-term expenses and mortgaged the country's future. Social security has stabilized and strengthened with job creation. Is it little? No, it was a lot! It's done! This recovery of the country was of the most important decisions of recent years and the Bloc is proud to have taken part in this journey. It was a path that left the right without a programme and without a proposal to date, as we have seen in the elections, as we see in this debate. But most important is that it was the way that brought the country back, responding to people. What is done today allows us to build a more solid path. Good! But to confuse what has been done with what needs to be done is dangerous. We are in a new cycle: the cycle marked painfully by the housing crisis; the cycle where response to climate emergency has to be effective; the cycle in which public services can no longer wait, in health or transport; the cycle where to respond for those who work requires the courage of major changes in social and economic justice, such as rights at work, the eradication of precariousness, the strengthening of the pension system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u251	What is lacking in this budget proposal is not only the negotiating availability which the Government has only shown very late. You lack answers and strategy for today's problems. It is not enough to live what is already done or to celebrate that it is not to be undone. Will the defrosting of careers take effect by 2020? I'm sure it was up to you. Will IRS steps created in the previous Far-CL legislature feel? Of course, decisions are made. Are there free school textbooks? It'd be news if it stopped happening. Does the update of the social support indexer take effect? Well, we've decided that for a long time. If not, even the poorest people lost their inflation. But indeed, by adding all these income recovery measures, which in its overwhelming majority are no more than the application of past decisions, those who live here and account for their lives to arrive at the end of the month will not have the increase that they need and that is theirs by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u252	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u253	The same is true of the investment. It rises 28 %, of course, but 28 % of little will never be a big thing. And, looking at investment, once again, we see what comes from the past and that could not stop being there, but we do not see what the future requires of us. of works in schools for the purchase of trains, everything was already decided and only the execution is expected. In the housing, there are money for programme 1. the law — the answer to those who need urgent relocation and who have been identified in the previous legislation — but there is no investment capable of a public lease market that fights speculation and guarantees the right to housing. In health, in the government's initial proposal, there is a fight against subordination but there is no increase in spending on execution. In fact, there is a novelty in the State Budget proposal: to clearly state that investment shyness serves the surplus strategy as a way to pay public debt. And that's a bad sign. It is a bad sign not only because it limits investment and therefore the economy is a bad sign because it is an explicit political retreat towards the path of the last four years. We have always affirmed that only economic growth could protect the country. Thus salaries and pensions were increased against the Brussels pressures. And we proved that was the right way. When the government is focused on the surplus objective and without proposing another understandable horizon for its budgetary strategy, it raises the legitimate doubt: will the recovery of income from the past four years also leave the Socialist Party without programme? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Left Block, priorities are clear: increasing the incomes of those who live in their work and increasing their investment. Apart from the government's immediate change in labour law, the transversal budgetary measure capable of regaining the purchasing power of those who live from their work is the reduction of VAT in energy. Less spending on the light rate is more wage and more pension. in one of the most expensive energy countries in Europe, it is also a measure of justice. Well now you can say the PS that, after all, rising the VAT of light in 2012 to which the PS, at the time, opposed, was a good idea, because it is environmental policy. That's not true! It is not true, because the implementation of the social tariff has already proved that more access is no longer consumption and there is no point in the climate emergency programme being discriminated against by the portfolio and penalizing average wages. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The response to carbon neutrality is, yes, in more and better public transport, in investment in energy efficiency, in the protection of the territory. And the Block will not give up any of these objectives, as it does not cease to recover public services, such as the National Health Service and the public school, to make justice more capable, to invest in culture and science, to realize the status of informal caregivers, to build paths of dignity against exclusion, to combat privilege and inequalities, to respond to the housing crisis. We didn't close any doors to negotiations. We assume full responsibility and do not expect ease. Let no one expect the Left Block to forget its mandate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u254	To make a request for clarification to Mrs Catarina Martins, Mrs Emília Cerqueira of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u255	Madam President, first of all, I welcome you and the honourable Members. Members of the Government. Mrs Catarina Martins, today I saw you doing an exercise here I don't know whether you're sorry, whether you're amnesia, and selective amnesia; before, you forgot what happened until 2011, but now you seem to want to spend a sponge on what you've done in the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u256	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u257	I see you today, as a carpenter, crying for public services, for health, for housing, for everything that has not been done in the previous legislation, but they were part of the government, of the solution, in four budgets, Mrs. Today, to our surprise, I see it - here making a public contribution - only so we can understand your position - as to what it is necessary to do, because it is not done. And then, by the way, Mrs. Member, you have to do everything! They will still bet on health, on informal care, on public services—yes, those who have destroyed, despite your speech for four years, and it is good not to forget it—for education, transport and, now, on the railway line, on so announced trains, indeed, announced one, two, three, four times, and everything canceled afterwards, because, after all, the Railway Plan no longer existed, as we have seen. But was there at least in realisation? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister, don't get that wasted air, because the truth is the truth. I know that sometimes you don't like her or deal with her well, but this is the truth of what you've done over the past four years. Public debt has been reduced. Madam Member, you know that this was a great deal thanks to the ECB's policy and to an exceptional situation of interest rates, fortunately for all of us, and not exactly to the brilliant measures taken by management and currently by this government. On the other hand, by the way, hijackers are also only apparent, since dating continues, as it has existed for four years, and it has always been this way: opposition to the second, the fourth and the sixth and power to the third, the fifth and the Sabbath, with rest on Sunday. So we have been used to it for the last four years, and so they continue. We have a budget which, unfortunately, I agree with you, Mrs Deputy, is today. It has no strategy, it has no future, it has no plans, it has no thought for the sustained development of this country. I am very sorry, and I hope that this troubles you and that you think about it when you are making these speeches as beautiful as those of the government, but that they are not to comply with, because they announce, budget and then they do not execute. I'd like you to reflect on this and tell us something. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u258	In order to clarify Mrs Catarina Martins, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u259	Madam President, Mrs Catarina Martins, for her speech, I realized that, after all, the Government and this Budget are not just a slogan, they are a reality that Mrs Catarina Martins, although she qualifies as a slogan, she finally recognizes that it is essentially good, that she is going to meet a course that we have done and that she has everything we expect to continue to do over these four years. I would, however, like to ask you two or three questions which are essential. He talked about electricity VAT, but talking about electricity VAT and disloding it from the issue of climate change, I'm sorry, it's a mistake. It is a mistake because it is essential to realize that your measure, as they defend, from a generic reduction in VAT from 23 % to 6 %, does not take these assumptions into account. In fact, I believe that you will recognize, and this is one of the issues I would like to ask you, that the demands which the Government has made at the European Commission level in order to create steps in electricity consumption, benefiting from the lowest consumption, in view, that is, a sustainable action in climate change, are in fact the right way. He also spoke here about wages and wage rest. I do not want to think that Mrs Catarina Martins will also not recognise that the 8 % return in the Public Administration these four years and the 3, 6 % that are already equated in the State Budget for 2020 is something that is not justified in continuing to do this work, to develop and to value the Public Administration, because, in fact, here, it is not a slogan, it is a design, it is a matter of doing something on the basis of the quality of the public service. I wanted to finish by addressing a theme that has been transversal, because it is indeed a design of this government and I think it is a design of the left, where also, of course, the Left Block will be positioned: the National Health Service. And on this point, I would like to remind you of some of your interventions, particularly when, even before the submission of the State budget proposal, it was understood that EUR 800 million for the strengthening of the appropriations and also the strengthening of frameworks in the National Health Service would be sufficient. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] The Government, in its initial proposal, has EUR 941 million to strengthen the initial allocation and 8400 workers. The question I have to ask you and leave you to consider is whether you do not consider that there is indeed an appreciation of the Government's commitment to investment in the National Health Service. It was clear that what we did in these four years, between the government and the left, in which we left, that, yes, the right without speech, because the right has no speech or programme, is a way to keep going, a path that the Left Block should continue to do together with the PS, accompanying the left. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u260	In reply, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u261	Madam President, I thank Mrs Emília Cerqueira and Mr Fernando Anastácio for her questions. I must tell you, Mrs Emília Cerqueira, and I hope you will not take me to harm, that I have a huge difficulty answering your question, because it gives me the idea that I prepared it before I intervene and therefore did not pay attention to my intervention. Perhaps you have heard me say the pride that the Left Block has on its way to the last four years, because it was a way to recover from the country. What I also said was that it's not enough to finish the cuts and cracks on the right, it's necessary to have a left program for the country. And if for four years we've been amending the cuts and huge penalties on the right in the country, this is the time to look forward, for new challenges. My speech was precisely about this. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Fernando Anastácio, once again, no one accuses the Government of failing to comply with what was agreed in previous years, what the Left Block points out is that a State budget made only on the basis of measures previously approved, by kind and important measures that have been taken at every moment — and they are, and we defend them — does not meet the new challenges we have today. It is that there were emergency challenges that we answered, and today there are other emergency challenges waiting for that answer. That's where the problem is. Regarding health, as you know, it was precisely the advances we made in the National Health Service that allow the Left Block, very critical of this proposal of State Budget, to make it viable, through abstention. Everything else is open, in the specialty, and we have a lot of way to do it. As I said, the Left Block does not abdicate from a budget which is capable of responding to today's problems and from a strategy for the future, which is not limited only to fulfilling the past, as is the proposal now put forward. On energy VAT, I note that the Socialist Party has in time also proposed the reduction of VAT in energy. I don't know if, at the time, I despised the environment and now, which builds new airports, prices more... Anyway, Mr. Fernando Anastácio will know how to explain this, I am not able to explain, but there is another thing that I am not able to explain either: the impact of the measure that the government has entered into in the Budget. It was the Block capable of realizing this impact or the government capable of explaining and perhaps the negotiation of this matter was already much more advanced. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u262	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u263	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this budgetary debate, Mr Prime Minister, in the more modest and less arrogant style that characterizes it, he told us only that this was the best budget he had ever presented. I would say to the people, and probably also Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, «gaba-te basket», but finally, let's not stay there. This budget will not be the best but it is certainly the greatest propaganda exercise since the last Budget presented by Mr. Prime Minister, only comparable to the advertising exercises, that we all still remember, of the former Prime Minister José Socrates and of his famous 50-measure plans to solve whatever it was. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is also the largest fiscal burden budget — it has the highest tax burden of all budgets. He said, not Mr Prime Minister, but Mr Finance Minister, that this budget was marked, if I am not mistaken, by six « e », of balance, stability, economy, companies, employment and left. These were the six 'e' which Mr Minister referred to. As far as the economy is concerned, the budget which has the greatest tax burden of all time is certainly not a good budget for the economy or for growth. For companies, just listen to the entrepreneurs or their representatives to realize that they are as unhappy with this Budget as possible. And you hear them talking about the Budget, you are not even hearing them answer to Minister Santos Silva, because then it would be even worse. Therefore, for the economy it is not, for companies it is not, either. Stability, well, that is at least less, because, finally, it has less support, has a less solid majority, so stability has also decreased. As for the job, we'll see. So left and balance remain. On the left, I don't get involved, as it is obvious. With regard to balance, I mean that a balanced budget is good news, from the point of view of a good rule of governance. That's not where the problem is. Moreover, the Budget has a surplus is something that neither the troika, in its greatest dreams, ever thought the country could have. Finally, someone who goes beyond the troika; it was no longer, perhaps, timeless. However, Mr Prime Minister, there are still others 'and'. There is a lack of « e » of « deceit », a lack of « e » of « ambush », a lack of « e » of « stagnation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u264	That's your share!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u265	On that, I would give two or three examples. Interestingly, it has not been said by me, for example, that I am looking at Mr António Filipe who said here, and well, that the Budget has nothing concrete in the functions of sovereignty, has nothing concrete in the functions of security and in the functions of the State. You said that a little while ago and you're not going to lie to me. Even the parties that support the government here say that there is nothing concrete for the security forces. It is true that the government has realized that there is a serious problem, that there is a serious problem and hopelessness in those who work every day to ensure our safety and to launch some intentions: strengthening of resources, human resources, and more agents. The government has expressed this idea, but in concrete terms, there is nothing! [[PS protests.]] Three-year plans. The question is this: when? How many come in? How many come in this year? Where will the investments be? Where are the works going to be done? What material will there be? The question remains when the government is telling the truth. The CDS, in last Parliament, proposed, year after year, a plan to combat terrorism, a plan for critical infrastructures... Moreover, the government now says: « we will have a plan for critical infrastructures ». So, what about the last four years? Nothing! It's the confession that for four years they haven't done anything! We asked about the retroactive supplements. First, Mr. Prime Minister said they weren't going to pay; then, when he saw himself tighter, he said: "Well, let's pay, but only one part, from 2019" ; now, he says 'we'll pay everything'. When did you miss the truth? I'm afraid it's three times, and that's the problem. I'm afraid you've missed the truth the first time, you've missed the truth the second time and you're now missing the truth, too. The same can be said, for example, about the protective equipment of security men. How many times have I asked about the protections? How many times did I say that they were useless, that they were old, that they didn't serve, that they were insufficient? They said no, that it was all right, that the protections were there, had been provided I don't know how many and that there was no problem. Now, in the Budget, they're saying they're going to make a big investment in protection. It's not possible! Therefore, the government is systematically lacking the truth. And do it again now. And I don't even ask about this idea of defense training for health professionals. It is that, finally, to be true, we would be in the field of absolute anecdotics. So I'm avoiding that, I'm not even going that way. But in this respect, we should also ask what happens, for example, in the area of national defence, that no one has yet spoken here today. It is because, in the area of national defence, we know that the effective is completely insufficient for Portugal to assume its responsibilities. With 25 000 men and women it is not even possible to take our international commitments effectively and appropriately! Also in this area of sovereignty, the Government has no answer. More: where is the word, where are the means to do justice once and for all to those who have honored our flag and served our homeland, who are the former combatants? There's nothing there, too! There's nothing concrete again. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a huge scene here. Apparently, what does this debate bring us back? We passed by a Prime Minister who, having lost the elections — the previous four years ago — eventually formed a majority for a Prime Minister who has now won the elections and lost the majority. It is basically politically perhaps the most interesting thing in this budget. But, having lost the majority, or having failed to build a new majority, because, despite dating, there was no role in the past—we see this today, during the debate—there was no agreement, how does the government do and how does it legitimize a strategic option? How do you do that? It's very simple: give a few things to each other, give some things to each other, negotiate here, negotiate there. Mr Prime Minister used the expression 'loyal' and I say that this is not an auction, that is an absolutely unacceptable and unqualifying budget barge. [[CDS-PP applause.]] How does this work out? For the NAP goes the VAT of the touradas; then, more half a hospital for Madeira ; then, more things for the PCP, for the CGTP and for the public service and more small increases—that they eventually do not want, or even find little;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u266	You're already training as a commenter!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u267	... then, for the Left Block, since there was no satisfaction yet—of course, the Left Block today announced its abstention, when its vote was already useless because there was already a large majority formed, as we all realized, but they are in your right, no one asks you to be faster—there are some things about combating germination and local housing, which may not be great but at least help overcome the famous « complex Robles», helps a little to forget and hide this story. That is basically how a Budget is built. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Mr. André Silva, the question of bullies is a shame and an indignity! [[CDS-PP applause.]] We may or may not like tourdas, we have all the right, Mr... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Mr President, I would ask Mr André Silva to hear me with the same taste that I always hear him.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u268	I like listening!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u269	Mr President, we may or may not like tourists. The honourable Member has already proposed here the prohibition of tours, and it is your right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u270	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u271	The tourada is an ancient Portuguese cultural tradition. Ancient!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u272	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u273	You may like it or not, and if you want to ban it, you forbid it. But there's one thing that's associated with the bullfight. Do you know what it is? It's bravery. [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] What you do, by saying 'we do not prohibit, but we suffocate fiscally', is cowardice! [[CDS-PP applause.]] You have not had the courage to ban and that is why you say that you will now try to end it with a fiscal suffocation. And the same Members of the Socialist Party, who have reverted from 13% to 16%, are probably those who are now going to vote 23%. So that's how the staging goes on. It's been a while, ladies. Members, other times, that the country remembers, in which the extreme left had as a dream to move on to higher forms of struggle. Today, they are only in the higher forms of hypocrisy. And that's how the staging will continue in the field of specialty. With one certainty: in the end, the Budget will be approved. It's more than that! The country deserved quite different from what you have here today to vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u274	A Member was appointed to ask for clarification. As Mr Telmo Correia has already exceeded the time allocated to his parliamentary group for today, but because the management of global time depends on each parliamentary group, I wonder if you want to respond to the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u275	I want to, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u276	All right. You have the floor, then, to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u277	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mr Telmo Correia, but not, of course, on his modesty, since this is a feature that you do not have. In fact, the honourable Member is of that kind of people who think there are two kinds of opinions: theirs and theirs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the history that has been brought to us here on the « e», it is merely proclaiming. What we were waiting for from the CDS, the responsible party, was that he would come to this House to discuss the State Budget. But no. It speaks generally of the economy, without presenting data, without presenting alternatives, without presenting solutions, saying a set of trivialities — I am sorry about your intervention. I would like to lead the honourable Member to the mere appreciation of an indicator, and only one indicator, not to stress it, that of the climate of economic confidence which Portugal has achieved in these years of the Socialist Party's government, supported, is true by the left-wing majority parties. As regards companies, Mr President, I would like to invite you to visit or revisit all the instruments, for example, in the tax area, which allow companies today to have greater investment capacity and greater ability to capitalise, since, in your time, on VV. For example, they constituted a majority, companies had only one alternative: they left the activity and shut down. As for stability, there is a thought that I would like to share with you: we, in the Socialist Party, never ask any partner to subsume in his political and civic participation, becoming merely a cape of the greater party of this government bow. Therefore, the participation of left-wing parties in majority formation is conscious and plurality, taking into account the difference of views that is considered by us in the Socialist Party. With regard to balance, and in order to conclude, it is certainly the aim of any government to achieve balance, but it must be the primacy of the construction of the budget year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u278	However, this has been not often achieved and, in democracy, has been achieved for the first time now. I would like to disappoint Mr and Mrs Cecilia Meireles, saying that certain accounts were even in our time, and there was no need to resort systematically to amending budgets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u279	To reply, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u280	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Testa, is completely wrong about my person and my posture, but, as far as this is concerned, my dear friend, there is nothing to do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u281	It's life!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u282	...each one is like each other. I will not, eventually — perhaps, in politics, none of us are — the least convinced or more modest person in the world, to use his expression, but I think that a fundamental quality not only mine but of the Portuguese in general, of our people in general, is humility. Now, I try to cultivate this humility and, therefore, it is wrong from that point of view. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Yes, I try to cultivate humility and democracy, which is when a person is talking not to go, listen to what she says,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u283	Praise this humility...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u284	...to have the ability to hear, to have the ability to think that my position is one, that of the honourable Member is the opposite, but that it is the people who decide who should be right at every moment and govern. [[PS protests.]] It is called to be radically democratic. And I am radically democratic, unlike you. So, my dear Mr Luís Testa, is wrong in this matter. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] However, I say the following: what is at stake here, obviously, are different views; they are different views of the country and are different views of the economy. The honourable Member makes a comparison in which, for the thirtieth time, the answer will be the classic: the honourable Member cannot compare the circumstances in which the Democratic Social Party and the CDS had to rule, after his party had brought the country to bankruptcy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u285	What does that have to do with balance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u286	...with the conditions of governance that you have now had. What we did was an extraordinary job, to get the country out of the bankruptcy in which you put it, and I am very proud to have supported this government led by Passos Coelho and by Paulo Portas on this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u287	You have four more Members! We saw what this led to!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u288	I don't have a problem with that, but on the contrary. Mr President, we have heard the Socialist Party say so many times here: "You have no proposal, you have no idea...". That's not true, sir. It is not us who have to present the Budget, it is the Government, it is the Prime Minister, it is the Minister of Finance. In our budget, everyone knows what priority would be. More: Even at that time, even in that government, we had a phased down IRC programme. That was our bet, as it would be now: lowering taxes on businesses, launching the economy, launching growth, lower taxes on businesses and families, and seriously betting on essential functions of sovereignty. That's what I said about the rostrum. Do you have any other ideas? It's your right. Now, he will also explain to us how this time he is going to vote on the NAP proposal on VAT, because this is also an interesting question, especially for himself, since the Socialist Party voted 13 %, then down to 6 %. What now? Is my friend available to vote 23%? I have the biggest doubts, but this is the honourable Member who has to clarify, not me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u289	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u290	Mr President, His Excellency Mr. Prime Minister, other members of the Government, Mr. Members : Portugal is one of the countries of the European Union with a greater proportion of workers to receive only the national minimum wage and one of the worst in social mobility, which means that these people, even though they work, live on a daily basis. We are talking about the reality of more than 10% of the population, who are in poverty, even though they are employed; we are talking about one in every five people who earn the minimum wage, currently fixed in the 600 € ; we are also talking about 21% of the population, that is, 2, 2 million people, who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, with a higher incidence on children and elderly people, mostly women. Before we respond that unemployment has fallen, we still remember the data released today: Portugal continues to have the seventh highest unemployment rate in the European Union, to which is added the precariousness of the current employment ties and the low wages that are practised, including the so-called'middle order', which is approaching the national minimum wage, because in reality there is no general improvement of the ordinations. But, Prime Minister, we invited you today to do a fundamental exercise, a day-to-day exercise of so many people, such as a single-parent family, in which a mother, who works, earns only 600 € and of these 600 € you have to pay 300 € of a household income — an increasingly difficult value to find in renting — and has to make another one more available for the day-care of her child, because she will hardly have any vacancies in the public options available. Among so many other needs, what remains, then, to ensure the payment of food, water or electricity, so that they do not also fall into a state of energy poverty? It seems a distant reality, but indeed it is not. Unfortunately, it is enough to see the studies carried out, open the Telejournal or contact the population to see how far we are from the European average and that, with 600 € per month, Prime Minister, the Portuguese budget clearly does not have a surplus. The Prime Minister recently mentioned the need to combat inequalities, but we are not mistaken: income inequality is linked to poverty and the development of the country, whose regional asymmetries still persist, particularly in the interior, impoverished, aged and poor. Therefore, Prime Minister, a budget of « certain accounts» will necessarily have to be a budget that accounts, firstly, for its main creditors, for people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u291	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u292	... and not an Budget which reserves EUR 600 million to cover the errors of the harmful management that took from assault on the bank, but which is so little ambitious to respond to the real needs of the population, this population who has faced the effort that has been asked of it, especially during the intervention of the troika, which has gone through the increase in unemployment and the freezing of wages and pensions, as well as the progressions in careers until today. Despite the path that has been taken and that we recognize, a balanced budget with a surplus, necessarily in the fight against poverty, must be available to rescue people from this situation. That is why, Prime Minister, the question we are asking today when we discuss this budget, in this debate, is the following: who is really going to stay behind? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u293	The Bureau does not have any requests for clarification, so I give the floor to Mr Ventura of the Arrival for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u294	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members: The only novelty of this Budget is a hidden boyfriend, a hidden boyfriend between the Left Block and the Government. Mr. Prime Minister here today smiles at the bench of the Left Block, the bench smiles at Mr. Prime Minister, pretends, more or less, that the thing is difficult—... [[That's jealousy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u295	...no, they're not jealous, make it clear! - and the thing's going on. It is just to say that there is a kind of a latent conflict, when we all know the result that we will have and who are going are the accomplices of the approval of this State budget! You may ask whoever you want to visit. Go visit a gas pump and see the Real Country, if there are more taxes or less taxes; go see a police station and find cops to fix the garden and with material purchased by them. That's the best proof of the real country we have! But this is also the budget that — I don't know if it's the biggest tax burden ever or not, so let's go? Oh, my God! — announced the great fight against corruption, which, after all, miraculously disappears, without any further means for the judiciary and no great effective means to combat this sad phenomenon of our day. The withdrawal of the prior visa from the Court of Auditors to business of municipal chambers—it is good that all the country hears, the business of municipal chambers—is something that can only embarrass one country, at a time when one wants to fight corruption and all its adjacent phenomena. This is the most eloquent budget in the history of Portugal because, in fact, it does not happen from a programme of intentions without any intention to be fulfilled and with the baton of this Minister of Finance, which will restrict to 30 or 40 what must be accomplished. Mrs Catarina Martins, I do not know if it is possible, or not, to live from inheritances — that is not for me to decide and I think it, even a little unfortunate expression, in the historical context in which we are. But there is one thing I know about inheritances: those who approve or enable this State budget will be accomplices to the greatest and most serious inheritance this country will have in the coming years, which is a very serious economic crisis. And the right here will be to see and, unfortunately, here will be to correct, again, the deviations that this socialist government has brought us.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u296	You're taking on a little more! You're already saying "the orange"!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u297	The Bureau does not have any requests for clarification, so it has the floor, for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u298	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It is not surprising that the Liberal Initiative is going to vote against this budget, indeed, it was the first party to announce it. Nor should I be afraid that the very party that supports the government will vote in favour, but actually scares me. I am surprised that the Socialist Party will vote in favour of this budget because, if we look at the cross-cutting points of the four agendas of the Socialist Party, as set out in the Government Programme, we see that there are measures that, I think, have absolutely nothing to do with the response to these agendas. They say they are very concerned about demography, but basically we have a deduction of €14, €5 per month, added to the collection of IRS for each family aggregate, which I think will help families decide to have the second and third babies! Open... They say they are very interested in creating better jobs, but instead of lowering the IRC so that companies can hire more and better, they basically accuse entrepreneurs of being of very low quality. They introduce IRS Young, which reduces the IRS in three consecutive years in the first job. The practical impact of this measure is that these young graduates or those young people in the first job will have a net increase in wages at house 2, 5 %, on average, in those three years. Two and a half percent! Many of them are thinking about emigration to earn twice as much, paying half the taxes. So once again, it will make a huge difference! Open... In addition, this budget proposal does not present any measure that favours increased productivity in the business fabric, which is perhaps only the main problem of our economy. The PS is very concerned about inequality, which is another of the points on its agenda, but it increases taxes almost everywhere, especially indirect taxes, in which we are already the fourth country in the euro area with the weight of higher indirect taxes. He says he is concerned about cohesion, but in relation to the IRC that will apply to the interior, basically what changes is the value of the exemption, which goes from €15 000 to €25 000 in collectable matter, which again will make no difference as to the attractiveness of the interior in terms of investment. Finally, the digital transition, which is a very important issue, but frankly, even after Mr. Prime Minister's speech, I don't remember any measures that say directly about this. And so much should be said about the qualification of the people needed to make this digital transition! Therefore, even the PS should vote against this budget if it took its own priorities seriously. But it doesn't. It does not, because, in fact, there is only one priority in this Budget. And the priority is to present the surplus, it is someone to stay in History by presenting the first surplus of democracy. And the arguments are: « we cannot leave burdens for the next generations » and « we need to lower nominal debt before we can grow again ». Who knows, before it turns half the century! Is that what you're talking about? The government says it does not want to leave a burden, but at the same time does not reform the state machine — which will be the biggest burden left to the generations that follow us — it will not make a reform in public services, it has already been seen by introducing competition and freedom of choice, which will be a burden in the future. The government says it does not want to leave a burden, but it will leave a public expenditure at the end of this legislature, which, according to the multiannual budget programming framework, will be greater than 8300 million euros than we had last year. It is more than 16 % of public expenditure at the end of this legislation to make faith in that budgetary framework. As far as public debt is concerned, it must be said — in fact, I said here today — that reducing the ratio of GDP is what is concerned and it goes down more rapidly, more fairly and more freely if we grow more than a few parks 1, 5 % a year, the percentage that this government expects to grow during the legislature. Therefore, our vision is another: giving priority to growth by believing that people and businesses know better what to do with their money than the state. And we will present, in the field of expertise, all proposals that may bring this Budget and the Country closer to that vision. Because we believe in Portuguese, we will present profound changes in the IRS; because we respect companies, we will present equally profound changes in the IRC, beginning with the elimination of spillover and the elimination of the limitation of the deadline of tax damages; because we are interested in transparency, we will propose reducing the tax benefits, absolutely unfair, for the parties and strengthening the funds to the Constitutional Court, so that, finally, the entity of transparency, the entity of accounts and the financing of the parties can work. This is the view that distinguishes us: while the PS presents a Budget that insists on controlling and limiting the choices and lives of the Portuguese, the Liberal Initiative defends a Budget that clearly places on the growth that free people will be able to generate. This budget is nothing like that and we will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u299	Mr President, the Bureau does not record requests for clarification. For an intervention by the Government, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u300	H.E. Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr. Members: The Budget is a key policy instrument for the Government. It is through him that we translate our will into concrete political choices. But Budget is also the moment when, on the basis of our principles and values, we reflect on what gives real meaning to our work as representatives of the people. The objectives of our work are simple: increasing the freedom of all and not just of some, raising the dignity of our people and valuing those who work and create wealth. This is a Budget which increases investment in public infrastructure, public housing and public transport services. With it, we seek to accelerate the implementation of a new generation of policies, a new cycle of structured investments in our collective life. This cycle will be long and will not end in the framework of this Parliament or the next, but this is the time when we all need to learn about the past. The first lesson is about the consequences of choices made by different governments throughout our recent history. By action or omission, many were wrong options. Today, it is in the sight of all that families are paying well the decades of lack of bet on rail or public housing. The de-investment in rail did not only represent the devaluation of a means of transport which some, in myopian form, understood to belong to the past rather than to the future. It also represented disinvestment in workers and their families, indifference to thousands of women and men who depend on the train every day to go to work, to go to school, to go to the hospital or simply to go for a walk. Women and men for whom collective transport represents an instrument of democratic access to public space — an instrument of freedom. in the same way, the lack of investment in housing policies resulted in a residual public housing park and at the same time hypothesized the emancipation of young couples and prevented many families from living in the land where they worked or wanted to live. This double forgetfulness of the railway and public housing dug the gap between those who can live and enjoy the cities and those who, with less money, were forced to live away from the urban centers; those who, without incomes at affordable prices, were pushed to buy from home on credit; those who, without enough trains, are forced to bring the car to work; or those who, without income to have a car, have no other alternative to public transport. The conclusion is easy to draw: where there is less public investment in housing and rail, there are more inequalities in access to houses, in quality of life and in the enjoyment of the public space that cities are and must continue to be. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can draw a second important lesson, now on the progressive convergence we have seen with regard to the aims of these policies. Today, despite what separates the parties, the vast majority seems to agree to be imperative to improve the quality of life of families, to facilitate mobility within and between cities, to promote public transport, to decarbonize the economy, to protect the environment and to accelerate the energy transition. When we think of structural investments, of those who will mark the territory and condition our collective life for many decades, this is an important convergence. It is essential to know how to take good advantage of it. But today there seems to be a third lesson on an apparent recent consensus on the importance of public investment. Today, they all require public investment in hospitals, iron roads, roads, schools, teams, quarters, transport. But, we know, it wasn't always like that. A short time ago, there were those who tried to diabolize public investment. And whoever did this contributed to stopping essential projects for our collective development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We need to be very clear so that people understand what is being discussed here. For us socialists, public investment is an obvious translation of our principles and values. It is the extension of the idea that a community is made of ties of mutual dependence among its members, visible and invisible ties that connect us to each other and create rights and duties for all of us. Just as a community does not result from the sum of individuals isolated, no community lives only of rights. On the contrary: a community depends on the fulfilment of obligations, respect for obligations, the provision of taxes to the collective. Therefore, we cannot seriously tell the Portuguese that we want more doctors, nurses, police, teachers, hospitals, health centers, courts, roads, trains, homes, transport and energy at the same time demand that those who can contribute less. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Attention! Don't get me wrong: I'm not talking about budgetary balance. I'm talking about the balance between rights and duties. This is a debate between the rights we want to have in an advanced democracy and the way we find it to finance them. So we tell the Portuguese honestly: to finance more hospitals — our hospitals —, better schools — our schools —, more trains — our trains — we need each one to contribute fairly, depending on his capacity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u301	More taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u302	And if we need everyone to lend their tribute according to what they can pay, it is not to finance the State, that distant monster that some like to evoke. Don't! It is to finance the community as a whole, the whole of its members. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] The hospitals, schools, trains are ours, they are Portuguese, not just because they pay them, but also because they use them every day to organize their lives. But when these services or infrastructures fail, it is the lives of people who are disorganized. And we must humbly recognize when that happens. To recognize with humility, we are able to put ourselves in the position of others is the first step, after understanding the causes and reasons, to be able to offer answers and allow people to organize themselves in the solutions to their problems. And it is precisely about answers and solutions that this Budget deals with. In the housing area, after a legislature in which we created the foundations of a new generation of housing policies, where we launched a programme to put an end to the outrageous conditions in which tens of thousands of families still live, where we created tax incentives to rent at affordable prices and in which Parliament first approved a basic housing law, we are now going to start a new phase. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]] [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Take it easy! They did not let Mr Duarte Marques speak, and now we have to take him systematically along our speeches! [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Member Duarte Marques.]] A phase of investment, rehabilitation and construction of a public housing park at affordable prices. We will use resources that are already public in an intelligent way: now by rehabilitating state buildings for many years which have been returned, or by resorting to public land to promote the construction of new public housing — either by direct promotion, through central administration or authorities, through indirect promotion, through housing cooperatives or private. This year we will launch the first stone of a public housing park — a park that will enable the State to have a real housing policy, as has been the case for several decades in many European countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u303	Always paying more taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u304	Who can more, must contribute more, so that as a community, we can have a decent life!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u305	More? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u306	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we all want quality services and infrastructure, it is not enough to defend that we need taxes to pay them. One more thing is needed: to defend an increasingly and better-produced economy, because only that economy will make it possible to pay for the investments that the community needs. In recent years, many have criticized the Government of the Socialist Party for being more interested in spending than in saving, more interested in distributing than in producing. Today, we agree, it is more difficult to accuse the government of spending the lowest deficit in our democracy. But many still insist on the idea that socialists cannot do the structural reforms that create wealth. I understand: whoever thinks that the growth of the economy depends on the blind reduction of taxes on the most profitable companies will always have difficulty realizing how our reforms develop the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For us, reforming is not privatizing, liberalizing, deregulating — and then waiting for miracles to happen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u307	For us, reforms are those that mobilize the public, private, social and academic sectors and create the conditions for them to cooperate with one another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u308	That's what magic thought is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u309	And what the previous Government has done and this Government will continue to do at the CP ( Portugal Trains ) is a good example of this. After we have given absolute priority to promoting collective mobility; after we have begun to recover the number of CP and EMEF workers ; after we have signed a company agreement at EMEF at the end of 10 years, and we are close to signing at CP at the end of 20 ; after one month the State has signed a public service contract with the CP for the first time in history ; and after a week the CP and EMEF have returned to be, a quarter of a century later, a single company,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u310	Don't vote anymore at Pedro Marques!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u311	... we'll be reopening the Guifões workshops next week in Matosinhos — a closed space almost a decade ago. [[Congratulations from the PS and PS Member Duarte Marques.]] It is in this space that CP is working on the recovery of dozens of trains that were down. Just imagine: cars and carriages that are still used today in countries such as Switzerland or France and that were abandoned here, in the sun and rain. But it will also be in Guifões that this year will be born the railway technology centre — the result of exemplary cooperation between universities and companies in the public and private sectors. This centre will allow Portugal to recover technological and industrial capabilities that our companies have already had in the manufacture of trains in a recent past. This is an example—one example—of what needs to be done to develop Portugal: to identify problems and needs, to bring together public and private partners to cooperate in the search for solutions and to take advantage of what we already know to learn how to make products and services more sophisticated tomorrow. It will be with respect for the Portuguese people, with humility in the exercise of our mandate and with pride in our collective capacities to overcome the challenges that we will face the current year and the mission of building a country that is fairer and better for all. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u312	Mr Minister, nine were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u313	In two groups, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u314	So, a first group of five gentlemen. Members and a second group of four Members. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos spoke of a new cycle for the public transport service, and this, for the Left Block, is relevant, particularly in the area of rail, but also in this area of public transport, and especially in the question of rail, it is found that the choice of surplus is a wrong option, because public transport should be seen as a priority; however, too much is delayed and, as you know, these matters do not survive only with intent. We will have the opportunity to ask the Minister of the Environment what, in practice, is a disinvestment in the programme to support tariff reduction in transport, but, in the area of CP, rail and rail infrastructure, this proposal for Budget leaves some concerns. On Ferrovia 2020, it was said here in Parliament by the President of the Infrastructures of Portugal ( IP ) that the deadlines that were presented in 2016 were too optimistic — « optimists » was the word used by the President of the IP — which does not leave us quiet about the new deadlines presented, particularly in the State Budget. As far as circulating material is concerned, so many problems have not yet been voted on. It is already known that the Transtejo ships will last at least one year longer than expected, the 22 CP cars, always referred to as the Minister and the Prime Minister, have seen the competition even at the end of 2019, as the one of 14 triple units for the Lisbon Metro. These are some of the examples in which we can see that this is not, in fact, the best government budget, as it wants to be called, and that it maintains some risks to the provision of public service, because that must be, as I said, the great concern. It identified precisely the need for urgent responses in its intervention, but the population needs urgent responses to mobility, particularly in rail mobility, which in some cases should have been given earlier. Therefore, the question arises as to how the Government is available to work on mobility and public transport, so that it can be ensured that the necessary works on the railway and the coming of rolling stock, with so many problems already announced, will not continue to have the delays that have been seen so far. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u316	It is the time of Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, I have no reason to express their good intentions, not in the case of places on your right to find a Minister, known as Ronaldo das Finanças, who in the end benefits from this, among other things, at the cost of increasing the tax burden, degradation of public services and at the expense of gross cuts in public investment. And when Mr Prime Minister announces, as he has done today, that this is a continuity budget, with regard to investment in public works and infrastructure, this brings us the greatest reservations and concerns. It is that the trick, the stagnation is always the same and has two fundamental steps: the first is the proclamations such as that of the Minister regarding the decisive importance of public investment and its consequent budget forecast; the second, also necessary for this deception to be successfully concluded, is the planned and unimplemented public investment. Let us see what happened with regard to the breakdown of public investment in central government: in 2016, EUR 652 million ; in 2017, EUR 878 million ; in 2018, EUR 876 million ; and in 2019, EUR 1183 million. That is, in four years, it was EUR 3587 million less in public investment. And in 2019, last year when there were no problems, when no one could ever hide invoking projects that were not made or the bad negotiation of Community funds, predicted a 48 % increase in public investment. Do you know what happened until November, Minister? - 2, 8 % achieved! And, in what is under its aegis, an increase of 19 % was planned, but by November 2019 there was a decrease of 1, 3 %. That is why the Minister is calling too much for our faith, so that we have the conviction that the State budget for 2020 will be fulfilled, because none of us, four years back, with this stage and these tricks, can trust that this will be the case. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u318	And it would be possible to say that this doesn't matter, it doesn't have costs in people's lives. But it does! It has costs on trains that do not pass, on ships that do not sail, on miserable rates of execution of the 2020 Railway, on schools that are not recovered, in the national emergency that is health, in the creation of wealth, in the economy, in a model of consolidation that is sustainable. Portugal today has a public investment far below the European average. And if in times of budget despair such is undesirable but understandable, what is not understandable is that, after four years, with the highest tax burden, with the highest revenue from the state, with all these circumstances and with winds favourable to the Portuguese economy perhaps unprecedented in this millennium, the public investment we do not manage to be at the level of public investment made in 2015. So, Mr Minister, this time I am going to ask you a question on the contrary. In other words, I do not ask you this time what you are going to do in 2020, I ask you, yes, what the government will stop doing in relation to what it has planned in the State Budget. That is, how many hundreds of millions of euros will not be invested this year at the cost of the « Ronaldo das Finanças », at the cost of this phenomenon that everyone boasts, but which calls into question the public services and the public investment necessary for the economy to grow. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u319	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u320	Mr President, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, I would like to ask you a question, but before that, I would like to leave four notes which can be considered as a balance sheet, taking into account the advance of the day and all that we have heard, especially all that we have heard to the right of this House and which deserves some comments. The first note has to do with what I am allowed to call « maze of contradictions », which we have heard during that day on that right side of the Hemicycle. However, the best way to clarify this 'paradise labyrinth' is to remember the obvious fact, which I have already mentioned several times, that it is this right of Parliament to insist on the idea that more public investment and less taxes can be made. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] This is a serious risk and a serious problem: as some of you will know, the economy is not a potato, nor is it a broccoli salad, it has rules. And the truth is that it is not possible, as you say, to increase investment by lowering all taxes, as Mr Rui Rio says in particular, that he wants to lower the IRS, IRC, VAT, and out there. This is the first note I'd like to leave. The second note relates to what Minister Pedro Nuno Santos mentioned in his speech, a sort of act of right-wing contribution, which is the circumstance of finally reaching the debate on the virtues of public investment. We know - and Minister Pedro Nuno Santos said - that it has not always been so. The PSD did not always come to this House to talk about the virtues of public investment. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] However, about this, I end by saying: well, they are welcome! We like your perspective on the goodness of public investment for the economy, we do not overlook that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third note has to do with the fallacy which the right has also been exposing in this plenary, a fallacy which, in particular, Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo tried in some way to demonstrate when he sought to find a causal link between tax burden and growth. Now, I must tell you, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, that you did not see well what the results were. In fact, speaking already of the Socialist Party's legislation, I must point out that in 2016 economic growth was 2 percentage points and the tax burden was 36, 6 % and that in 2018 growth was 2, 4 % and the tax burden was 37, 2 %. In other words, this causal link that you want to find does not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I'm going to give you more consistent information — and maybe even the PSD's liking. In eight years, from 2011 to 2018, do you know the year in which the tax burden was lower? It was in 2012, 34, 4 %. And you know what happened to the country's gross domestic product? It had a grave of 4, 1 %! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, the gentlemen. Members need to clarify this causal link they are talking about. The fourth and final note has to do with the balance sheet. There's one thing that's the facts, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. And the facts don't lie. Public investment, when you were government, fell in 2011, 35, 2 % in 2012, 32, 3 % in 2013, 10 % and 6, 9 % in 2014. Therefore, public investment has always fallen at that time. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] The growth effort of public investment has been made by this government, and we will continue to do so, as shown in this Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, let us go to the railway and to what I would like to ask Minister Pedro Nuno Santos. We can say — and I think it is totally legitimate and I am not mistaken — that the Minister is at risk of being the face of the railway revolution in Portugal. We have been confronted over many years with successive de-investments on the railway...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u321	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u322	... by all governments, as Mr Minister pointed out. Fortunately, today, we have a plan, a demanding plan, we have determination and we have protagonists to develop that plan. Clearly, we know that not all are roses and that there are obstacles. But, as the Minister said, there are very favourable winds which can be appreciated by the country and which have to do with this effort in relation to the railway. The question I would like to ask you, Minister, is whether there are conditions for the country to bet on a railway cluster that allows you not only to meet the needs of Portugal in terms of rail and transport but also to diversify our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u323	To request clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u324	Mr President, it seems that we both agree that ensuring housing for those who live in their incomes in Portugal is essential. In fact, I could resume the memory exercise that you have made and revert to the proposals of the new generation of housing policies, but I am afraid that the government that proposed them, as well as those goals, will no longer live here. We are, in fact, far from the 170 000 promised fires. I'm not going that far to show juggling, I'm just going to review the last year and the latest goals, because these are not the right fight with the discussion we're having here today. I have here a page of the State Budget Report for 2019, where for Programme 1. The Housing Access Support Programme proposes an amount of EUR 126 million for 2020, not twice as much as EUR 40 million for 2019, but three times as much as 40 million for 2020. Then, last September, we also have the financial impact of the measures of the Socialist Party Election Programme, where we speak of a program that includes a public housing park that will amount to 150 million euros / year. Now, one more is two — and not one! And in the right accounts, the investment for 2020 under these two programmes should be EUR 276 million. But it is not, because at the moment, only EUR 150 million are entered. And if we add programmes that have been removed from the State Budget Bill, such as Porta 65 Jovem, this investment should amount to at least EUR 294 million. I recall again that what is proposed is EUR 150 million and EUR 294 million is twice as much, only twice as much. This was the first stone, minimum, necessary to give the touchstone in the launching of housing policies, but it does not live in this State Budget either. The question I leave Mr. Minister is this: is she going to live? Will the proposals of the Socialist Party and of this government move to live in the State Budget, with regard to housing policies? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u325	To conclude this first group of requests for clarification, Mrs Filipa Roseta of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u326	Mr President, Minister, on housing in the last four years, the Socialist Government has consistently produced programmes whose practical effect, so far, the President of the Republic has said that he doubted that they will have some success. This government has surpassed the speculative rise of the real estate market with taxes and it is precisely those who have come to contribute to paint the fable of the certain accounts that try us, and continue to try, impinge. This government resigned from the responsibility of treating people who were out of access to housing, pushing this responsibility for the private. This government has left the state buildings — and this was the most serious thing, and the Minister has spoken about it — empty, abandoned and ruined for four years with people looking for a home and no place to live. [[Protests by the Minister of Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.]] This, with three speculative years, i.e. with the market growing to more than 10 % over the last three years — is the market which is now growing speculatively. This government has done nothing to confront the monster of bureaucracy, which is the fertile ground for corruption and which is really the great obstacle to economic growth in this country. Here, the government announces a huge public works programme, called the National Building Rehabilitation Fund (FNRE), for which it proposes, as announced by the country, the allocation of more than EUR 1000 million, which will leave the Portuguese pensions, it must say this very, very calmly. The EUR 1 billion for the housing access support programme, which the honourable Member called for, will leave the Portuguese pensions, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund ( FEFSS ). Now, this fund will be managed by FUNDIESTAMO. Mr Minister, I have already heard you say that this fund was not going to follow the Public Contracts Code. However, Article 104. that of the bill presented today tells us that the same Fund will have to observe general principles of public procurement. So I doubt what this means. So, Minister, I ask: does the National Building Rehabilitation Fund follow or does it not follow the Public Contracts Code? This is my first question. With the real estate crisis that we were living in 2008, with the real estate bubble that blew up that year, in which pension funds died all over the world, does it seem intelligent to you to put all your hopes in our housing program? It is that it is more than EUR 1000 million — I have already heard of 1400 million and 1700 million — coming out of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. These are data from FUNDIESTAMO, therefore it is not an invention, it is in the famous Resolution of the Council of Ministers. See all the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 48 / 2016. Question: Does it seem smart to you to bet all the money from the Portuguese pensions in housing when, in 2008, pension funds disappeared from that outside the world? First, do you think the bulk of the money is coming from the pensions? Secondly, will the National Building Rehabilitation Fund or not comply with the Public Contracts Code? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u327	You have the floor to answer these requests for clarification, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u328	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. At no time will our government see to hide or deny the reality we face. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u329	The jokes are deserved!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u330	We are fully aware of the difficulties that Portuguese and Portuguese families face with regard to rail service and rail transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u331	That's it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u332	It has been decades in which we and the main side of the opposition — which makes us hear a lot — collectively together, we have been successively disinvesting on the railway. Unfortunately, we will not be able to reverse decades of disinvestment in the railway in half a dozen years. Unfortunately, we couldn't. We have a rolling stock park with trains with 50, 60, 70 years to circulate in Portugal and at the moment we have a record flow to the railway service. Fortunately, the measure of the PART(Tax Reduction Support Programme in Public Transport) has resulted and only at CP we have 40 % more demand. We are aware of our problems — problems in circulating material and greater demand — and, of course, to the pressure we suffered before, this adds much more pressure on service. We have full consciousness and respect for whom every day you have to catch a train, on the Sintra Line or on the Cascais Line, to go to work, and often faces the difficulty of the train appearing or arriving in time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u333	Me! Me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u334	If there's anyone who's aware of this, it's us. Now, we are trying to answer this serious problem, resulting from decades of disinvestment. What we did and what others could have done, but did not, was look at our material park, realize that we had dozens — I repeat, tens! — of trains lined up and caught on them, repair them and place them around. Next week, we will inaugurate the factory in Guifões and all will have the opportunity to see some trains already recovered and ready to be « injected ». This is how we work: with humility, with honesty, in the face of the difficulties we have, but giving everything, with the resources that the country has. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] They will never hear of us denying the delays we have in the 2020 railway. We're late for public investment. The great exercise that we should all be doing is about why we are late, because we will only be able to answer our problems if we are able to go beyond the identifications. [[Protests by PSD Member Rui Silva.]] If you talk to some of the authors of your party, you will quickly realize what difficulties we are facing today in Portugal in order to get public investment to meet the deadlines and have the pace that we all need and by which the Portuguese people yearn.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u335	The others had no reason, only you have!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u336	No one's sleeping, waiting, not doing anything! We're working!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u337	How many years ago? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u338	But if we want to answer, we need to figure out what happened. In 2008 we had a deep financial and economic crisis that destroyed our construction sector. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] The recovery of this sector takes time. It is happening, but it takes time and we have a lot of difficulty in getting answers, either in the project phase or in the work phase. We have delays in the design phase and the work phase, i.e. it is not the state that is delaying. We understand the difficulties that our sector still faces, but we must have the humility and seriousness to present all the elements in our debate. In the state, as in the authorities, we also have empty competitions. Let's face it—and good! — a whole process of public procurement, supervision and monitoring of the performance of our duties, which privates do not have to follow, which obviously increases constraints. We have objections and responsibility is not ours, it is a right of those who compete. [[CH protests.]] All these moments have an impact on public investment and we will therefore work to ensure that the 2020 Railway is implemented by 2023. With difficulties, with delays, but always with much commitment and with much seriousness in the way we face our work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I cannot fail to give a note on an issue which Mr Pereira has put, because he has referred to a wrong way of dealing with the way we have worked in our country for so many years. When we have a need, which in this case is of circulating material, what we do systematically, whether in this sector or in others, is what we know to do very well, which is important. What we do is we buy, import, without that consequence in our economy and industry. What we want is that the investment and effort we make in circulating material has consequences in our economy. Are there conditions for a railway cluster? Oh, my God! We already have a railway cluster, we already have companies working in the sector, what we want is that they also work to run for the Portuguese state, and we will not just be buyers to other countries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u339	Only trains are missing! We've got everything but trains!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u340	As regards housing, ladies and gentlemen, this is another area in which unfortunately it has not been invested for years. We had a institute whose mission was to alienate public property. What we are doing, and we have already started it in the previous legislature, is to recover a public housing policy that did not exist in Portugal. We did it! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u341	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u342	What we started in the previous legislature and we want to continue is the construction of a real public housing policy, which unfortunately did not exist in our country. It used to sell itself heritage and now we want to create a public park, rehabilitate our heritage, rehabilitate our lands, because this was another failure of our country— tens of thousands of public buildings lying together and public lands to take advantage of. We want to put the state heritage to the service of our population. Mrs. Filipa Roseta is wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u343	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u344	So I conclude, Mr President, and I will continue this answer later.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u345	This debate has restricted rules, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u346	I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'll keep going, then. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u347	Mr Minister, he has another four entries for requests for clarification, and the first to do so will be Mr Hugo Pires of the PS Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u348	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, the problem we are living in today's housing is not just the most disadvantaged classes. Lack of housing at fair and affordable prices affects our young people, our old people, the middle class. over 45 years, democracy has given the Portuguese one of the greatest achievements of April, the National Health Service; it has given us a public school that provides equal opportunity for all, regardless of the social environment in which it is born; it has given us public social security that guarantees basic rights promoting well-being and social cohesion. But despite all these advances and conquests, as a pillar of the social state, housing has been out of the political agenda for decades. Housing is a fundamental right, the basis of a stable and cohesive society and the foundation from which citizens build their life plans. Four years ago, when he took over the country's governance, the PS inherited a dramatic situation. The famous "law of evictions", the PSD and the CDS, ended with neighborhoods, removed families, torn ties and removed people from homes where they lived for a lifetime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] Furthermore, the expression « go beyond the troika », used and abused by the PSD and CDS government, did not represent only a brutal increase in taxes— « go beyond the troika» was a whole programme for the country— represented a programme of impoverishment of families, low wages, precarious labour market, selling more profitable public enterprises, degradation of public services. More: it also represented the deregulation of the lease market, the wastes without rule and a voracious real estate speculation. This was the purpose of right-wing governance of the PSD government / CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But this social insensitivity, this disinterest by the people and this indifference to the most unprotected also did not go unnoticed to the Portuguese people, who gave a response to it in the last legislative elections, influencing the greatest defeat ever to the right in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u349	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must respond to what is today a national emergency by placing more houses on the market at lower prices accessible to Portuguese families. Ensuring general access to adequate housing is a design that should mobilize us and summon us all. PS has shown that it is the only party capable of having a cross-sectional and global perspective of the problem. In the previous Parliament, we have taken very important steps in this regard, with the creation of a State Secretary exclusively dedicated to the area of housing, with the change to the "law of the waste" of the PSD and the CDS-PP and with the approval of the first Housing Bases Act, despite the right to vote against. We now set out for a new legislation, for a new cycle, with the ambition to make even more and even better housing. The goal is clear: to eradicate all housing deficiencies in 50. the anniversary of 25 April in 2024.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u351	After the elections, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u352	Mr Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Portugal will only achieve an effective public housing policy if it considerably increases its public housing park. The question I ask you is: will the Portuguese State finally assume its responsibilities and increase this public housing park? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u353	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u354	Mr President, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, Prime Minister has said earlier that this State budget is better than any of the last four years. It is not surprising, because part of the funds provided for in this Budget come from non-implementation of the previous budget, such as the level of non-acquisition of rolling stock or, still, of non-removal of asbestos in public buildings. The Government's programme spoke a lot about combating climate change and the development of the interior. But, as you know, rail mobility plays a key role in these two matters. It does not seem to us that this budget will strengthen the momentum of the past legislation, in which there was a turn of page and in which the contribution of the Greens was undeniable. In the previous legislation, a final point was placed on the closure of railway lines, in particular with the symbolic reopening of the East Line to passengers and with the hiring of more workers for EMEF, now merged again with the CP. We welcome this, but we stress that there is now a shortage of more workers, so necessary and above all now with the opening of tenders for the acquisition of rolling stock. in this legislation, in addition to the necessary response to the problems of rail transport in the metropolitan areas, a strengthening of this orientation was expected, in particular through a clear increase of the money for the modernization of the complementary lines, i.e. the lines serving the interior, the areas outside the large north / south axis. The Greens fear that the Government has not only delayed, as it has done over the past four years, but that this time it has even forgotten the electrification of the Alentejo Line and the East Line, the construction of the Portalegre Ramal, the replacement of the Corgo Line and the Themega Line, the reopening of the Douro Line to Spain, the replacement of railway mobility in Lousan and the end of the modernization of the West Line. Minister, ingredients and vitamins are still missing to give an iron energy to an iron path that is a fundamental response to serving populations, to combat regional asymmetries, to promote tourism distributed by the country and to reduce CO2 emissions. The commitment announced by Portugal to combat, adapt and mitigate climate change must take a more concrete and objective form. We cannot make egg-free omelettes and therefore it is unthinkable that, without investment, if we can achieve the goal of decarbonisation until 2050. For years, the bet was on de-investment in public public transport, removing the right to mobility of citizens. Therefore, at present, investment is so paramount and necessary. The first steps were taken in the last legislation, showing that, despite the proposal « having beards », it remained necessary over the years and even if the « Old of the Rest » indicated that it was not possible, there we have the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction in Public Transport (PART ), which not only translates the option for public transport as it allows greater comfort in the economy of Portuguese families, allowing above all to make great progress in the policies of adaptation to climate change. There is an urgent need for investment in public public transport, but rail development is a priority and we therefore question whether these promises of more circulating material, which will bring more times and more comfort to the citizens, will not be just words that the wind will take. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u355	It is the time of the NAP, through Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues, who has the floor to make a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u356	Mr President, Minister, we would like to begin by asking some questions about housing. Portugal has a number of multi-causal housing problems that require not only differentiated responses but, above all, coherent ones, which we do not think results from this proposal for a State Budget. The exponential increase in housing prices and economic pressure on the inhabitants of the most affected cities drive citizens out of cities and seek residence in neighbouring municipalities. The increase in prices has, in turn, been associated with the processes of liberalisation of the lease market, resulting from different political measures, such as the revision of the legal regime of urban lease, and also of measures to promote the internationalisation of the Portuguese real estate market, through the creation of the unusual resident regime, the allocation of golden visas and the proliferation of local housing activities. The housing policy is concerned, the discussion on the role of the State in regulating a market that easily stimulates activities and the sector's financing, removing from access to decent housing all those who, due to insufficient income, cannot participate in an over-inflationed market. The low income of people limits the possibility of acquiring their own housing, so they have access to the lease market. Having arrived at this, they are completely suffocated by their available income and income prices, being increasingly pushed to the frontier of poverty and social exclusion. in a country where the average annual income per equivalent adult is at home of EUR 11 000, the average annual rent price of an apartment for a three-element family is EUR 8478 in port and EUR 12 052 in Lisbon, reflecting, in this case, an effort rate for families of 65 %. Now tell us, Minister: how is it possible for people to be able to pay for a house, all the expenses inherent, to eat and have a life that goes beyond working and paying accounts? Oh, my God! How is this budget actually going to respond to this need? It is that the Accessible Render program, for example, has already shown that it is clearly insufficient to meet people's real needs. Although it is recognized in the official discourse and in the preambles of the laws as the imperative to dynamize the lease market or to ensure public housing, the truth is that, between words and acts, contradictions are evident and a great lack of political will to really change the state of things. In short, what the Government is proposing to us in this State budget is insufficient. It is necessary to get to the root of the problem. For example, the government could start by changing the status of the unusual resident, since with this benefit attributed to foreign citizens, the country loses about EUR 548 million in revenue. It is also urgent to move forward towards changes in public policy aimed at better regulation of the real estate market and at enhancing responses or strengthening existing responses. On the other hand, the distance between the place of work and residence brings other requirements, including the increase in travel. If it is true that housing policies have failed, the government has not been able to follow the needs of citizens relating to public transport either. More than 425 000 people enter Lisbon per day, most of them using their car, with obvious damage to the environment but also to the quality of life of people. No one wants to spend two hours trying to get to Lisbon through the 25th April bridge, but no one wants to spend two hours getting to work on buses or crowded carriages of people, without any link with other public transport, or run the risk of seeing the career he depends on to get to the work deleted one day for the other, without any justification. Mr. Minister, we need to do more and better. We do not need to be told, as we already know, that many million will be invested in public transport and that, therefore, it is estimated that, perhaps, three or four years from now, Transtejo has more boats or CP and the metro more carriages and better lines. But even there, Minister? Oh, my God! So, in view of the policy options reflected in this Budget, can we not fail to ask the following: apart from the visasgold, is there any availability to review the regime of non-standard residents? When will tax measures be adopted that effectively promote the lease market? When will there be a serious investment in public transport? [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u357	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Minister Pedro Nuno Santos, public investment is a crucial issue for the development of the country, for the modernization of infrastructures, with better conditions for the productive sectors and economic activity. For many years now, the CFP has been stressing, so many times alone, this very issue, about which there is an increasingly serious problem: the budgeted and approved investment which is then not implemented and is slow to realize. The new trains to the CP or the new ships to the Transtejo announced by the Government in this Budget are the same as the budget debate a year ago — or, in the case of the Transtejo, before they were! — and the processes are in the same, or worse. Lacks of staff in companies are grueling. That is why the question of how many trains have been abolished, how many ships have been delayed, how much time have we lost waiting for the subway or bus? Is the government's budget surplus worth? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u359	In particular, is the Government available to extend the procurement process of new trains to the CP and start new procedures for long-term and suburban trains, which are essential to national railways? Is the Government available to end again the absurd restrictions on the hiring of personnel for transport undertakings and restore the operational capacity of these fundamental public services to the people? Is it available to put an end to tariff cuts in rail and intermodal transport between regions? It is available to amend Article 181. The budget, which deals with the tariff reduction in transport, so that there is no longer the budget cut in which your proposal is translated? It is that 129, EUR 7 million for one year is less than EUR 104 million for nine months and the investment of municipalities is not an alibi for the government's de-investment. Mr Minister, what is needed is more trains and not less chairs on trains. What is needed is to strengthen public services and not to extend PPPs ( public-private partnerships ). « The trains are ours», Mr Minister says, and very well! In PPP, trains are ours and the profit is theirs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u360	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u361	The CFP has already made it clear that the final assessment of what concrete results from progress in the speciality phase and the political framework in which the Budget will be discussed will determine the meaning of the overall final vote that the CFP takes. It is that when trains are missing, when transport is lacking, people do not get the budget surplus in the morning to go to work! That is why the question arises is that of the political options that the Government intends to take. That is what we are asking you in this debate. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u362	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Infrastructure and Housing, Pedro Nuno Santos. I ask you to be as synthetic as possible, since the time it was possible to anticipate from tomorrow to today is already exceeded. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u363	Mr President, I am going to make this effort and I would like to apologize to my colleagues in the Government who are still going to make speeches. In fact, I've spent too much time. I wanted to leave two notes and start by answering Mr Bruno Dias. They had not « fallen relatives in the mud » if they had made a compliment to the government for having finally increased the number of workers in EMEF and CP from a net point of view. It is not to have stopped the fall, it is to have begun to increase the staff of EMEF and CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u364	CP itself has asked for much more!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u365	Nor had they « fallen relatives in the mud » if they had praised the government for having merged the CP and EMEF for so many years required by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u366	Who was right, after all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u367	It had not been wrong for him to also praise us for having, for the first time in history, made the CP's public service contract. Nor was it wrong for him to praise the government for finally opening the factory in Guifões at the end of 10 years,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as it would not be wrong to praise the government for having, at the end of 10 years, a company agreement at EMEF and, at the end of 20 years, we will be close to having a company agreement at CP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u368	There's no need to amour either!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u369	It didn't hurt the PCP. We gain much more credibility in the criticism we make when we recognize the good work that is done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u370	The PS policies are that they could help! He only answered with his complaint!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u371	I would also like to point out, on the subject of housing, that Mrs Filipa Roseta is wrong, because I never talked about FNRE. Here, in my intervention, never! [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] No, ma'am! With regard to the budgetary allocation we have in this Budget, so that it is clear, when Mrs Maria Manuel Rola said that the expectation was that the allocation for housing would be greater, I will tell her that I too would like to have a higher allocation. But we have built a budget in a framework of multiple needs and the truth is that — I cannot ignore it — the housing budget this year is twice as much as what was in the last budget. The great challenge will be to be able to carry out — in fact, as several Members have mentioned here — what we have budgeted. This is our main task and main concern. We have EUR 150 million for the effective expenditure of the State budget, not the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund. The real estate we will want to recover is with the State Budget, not the FNRE. But let me tell you a few things about the FNRE, the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, because it is wrong. Do you know where the pension money in the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund is applied by 90 %? It's in public debt securities, I repeat, it's in public debt securities. What the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund does is investments that offer a minimum profitability rate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u372	Mr Minister, I ask you to synthesize it again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u373	... 4 %. That's insured.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u374	Is he there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u375	If it is not insured, the investment cannot be made. The Stabilisation Fund is protected. On the public procurement code and why it does not apply, Mrs Deputy, it is because it is a fund which is subject to the rules of the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM ( Committee on the Market in Securities ). That's how our law works, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u376	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u377	The polling isn't smaller. The scrutiny is even greater because it has the regulation of CMVM and Banco de Portugal. But this is the FNRE and I didn't talk about the FNRE at any time in my intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u378	I spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u379	Betting on railways, infrastructures and housing is a great bet for next year and reveals only respect for the Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u380	You need to answer the ENP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u381	I didn't have time for praise either!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-01-09.u382	So we have come to the end of our work today. Tomorrow, at 10 a.m., the work will begin, without any doubt, to see if we can leave for the afternoon only the closure. Good afternoon to everyone and until tomorrow. [[It was 21 hours and 5 minutes.]]
