ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the gates of the galleries to the public. Before we begin the agenda, I give the floor to Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to make some communications.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good day, I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives. I refer, first, to Bill No. 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Statute of the Advocates'Order, revising the remuneration status of the Official Board of Auditors which forms part of its Fiscal Board, which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, having been admitted, the following Resolution Projects Nos 201 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government should ensure that the professions relating to criminal police bodies are recognized as fast-wearing professions which fall to 1. the Commission, 202 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the status of the risk profession and pay the risk allowance to the criminal police bodies, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 240 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to eliminate the portico of Neiva, in A28, from the current location, which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u3	Let us then get on the agenda with the discussion of legal rules — Article 1. o, 116. o, 214. o, 215. o, 240. o, 241. o, 265. o is 284. the and proposals for new articles. As in previous days, each party and the government will be allocated 5 minutes. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is currently a majority of Members and Members in the Assembly of the Republic who defend the reduction in VAT (tax on added value) of electricity and in the country no one will understand that Parliament does not take this decision, which the Portuguese have long been waiting for. The troika left the electricity VAT at 23 % in 2011. For eight years, the Portuguese have been paying for electricity, heating their houses, as if it were a luxury asset. But it will not be possible to wait another six months for VAT to fall to 6 % that this measure should no longer be approved. The dramatization that the government has done has no basis and, when you see the numbers, that is obvious. In 2020, the measure does not call into question the surplus of 2020, and half of it. In 2021, the measure does not call into question the surplus of 2021, and is also in half. So, because it does not call into question the public accounts, because dramatization has no basis, because it is fair and because the Portuguese have been waiting for too long, the Block reiterates its call here for Parliament to do what is expected, which is to lower the VAT from electricity to all Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u5	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u6	Mr President, Mr Monteiro's speech is not on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u7	We are not discussing matters, Mr. We are discussing in order to register the Members. Members and the inscription I have here is that of Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u8	Yes, Mr President, but the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic also say that the Bureau must fight for the plurality of the interventions, not following the same parties, so it makes sense that there is an intercalar...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u9	Mr President, there is no one else on this subject, so...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u10	About this or about another, Mr. President. What makes no sense is to be the Members of the same parliamentary group to intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u11	Mr President, the leader of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, we must follow the organization of work in accordance with what the honourable Members say. Members say and not according to what I would like. Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: yesterday we took another important step. We have reduced the propines again by 20 %, a course started in 2019 and that is certainly a great beat in all neoliberal policies of higher education. Yes, it's possible to lower the tips. Yes, it is possible to increase the scholarships. Yes, it is possible to increase the accommodation supplement. Only a higher education for everyone, who respects and respects everyone, wants to end with the tips and value the scholarships and mechanisms of social action. Here will be the Left Block to end with the propines once and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u13	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP has decided to advocate the proposal for compensating supplements of security forces and services, commonly referred to as risk subsidies. In the speeches, we all emphasize the action developed by the security forces and services professionals and the relevant service that they provide to the country. In principle, we all consider it fair that these professionals have a risk allowance corresponding to the risk inherent to the profession they perform, but, in truth, this allowance is not regulated and is never paid. We understand that this situation has to end, that it has to go from word to act and recognize the role of these professionals through payment supplements, because it is entirely fair that they are granted. in this sense, the PCP proposal on the remuneration supplements of security forces and services officials, to be negotiated, of course, between the government and its trade unions and socio-professional associations, was advocated. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u15	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Also in education, what guides us are the results that tell people's lives. We have known for days that the early school dropout rate reached a new historical minimum in 2019. We are making much better progress than Europe in a key indicator to assess the quality of public education policies. This succeeds with public policies for all and that is why we must continue to consolidate the measure of free school textbooks and we cannot deviate from this consolidation course. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as the democratization of higher education is concerned, we need to know that today we have the greatest number of students of all time, more scholarships, higher scholarships and lower tips. A student will now pay less than €400 per year than he would pay if we hadn't started this path. This can only bet on knowledge and throw into the trash can of history the myth that we've got other licenses.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u18	We must continue this path, not forgetting that the legislature has four State budgets, not only one. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u19	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know that moderate rates are, in fact, balances that limit access to health and that is why we have approved in the Health Bases Act that moderate rates should be eliminated. With the proposal submitted by the Left Block, which was voted in the Commission yesterday and which we brought to the plenary to be ratified, we will begin in 2020 the path for its elimination in primary health care. We therefore hope that yesterday's outcome in the Commission will be confirmed today in plenary. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u21	Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There have been several reports that point us to the trash can of Europe. The results of urban waste management in Portugal are incomprehensible, because when we should have reduced waste production by 10 %, we are growing 4 % annually. We deposited 46 % of organic waste in landfills, which could be used for soil recovery. The recycling rate is only 40 % and only 12 % of plastics are recycled. More: We have received waste from all over Europe for having such a low TGR (waste management rate) and there are landfills, as in the case of Valongo, which even receive hazardous wastes such as as as as asbestos, jeopardizing the health of the populations. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to take a step towards solving this huge problem, which is Portugal being in fact the waste box of Europe, the NAP presented a proposal responsible for raising the waste management rate, which was approved yesterday. We bring her here again today to realize who she wants Portugal to stop being Europe's garbage dump. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u23	Mr José Luís Ferreira (“The Greens”) spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that the Greens have advocated is to create an energy efficiency programme in the Public Administration and is inserted in a set of proposals that we have put forward on savings and energy efficiency. of these proposals we highlight the creation of fiscal stimuli, at the head of IRC (tax on the income of the public), directed to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that invest in the conservation and reduction of energy consumption and also the proposal for strengthening environmental deductions, at the head of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons), for acquisitions of renewable energy units for self-consumption. With these proposals, the Greens also seek to bring the State budget to combat climate change, in this case, because of the decisive contribution that energy efficiency can represent. It is an objective that requires, among other options, the promotion of energy efficiency, in particular, but not only at the level of buildings, because, as we all know, our built park, in general, and in particular the state buildings, is characterised by poor energy performance. In the collective effort to combat climate change, of course, the state cannot stay out and therefore the Greens propose the creation of an energy efficiency programme in the Public Administration based on three essential components. They are: first, the guarantee of the strengthening of funds for this objective; second, a remodeling of energy service contracts in the Public Administration, enabling products meanwhile viable by technological advances in order to ensure energy efficiency gains through local production; and finally, the preparation of a study to equate the buildings of the State with small production units of photovoltaic and solar electricity. This is therefore an investment that must be made, for all reasons, but of course, by the commitments made by our country at the international level, to which it is important to put in place concrete measures, in order to combat the threat that climate change represents for all of us. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u25	Mr José Magalhães, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to compensating supplements from security forces and services, the PS Parliamentary Group monitors the concerns of men and women serving in these fundamental forces. However, we do not follow the proposals that are under discussion for the reasons I am explaining. Firstly, because the law has already unequivocally enshrined rights in this matter and it is not the function of the State budget to repeat the law in force. Secondly, it is necessary to rethink this scheme which has given rise to interpretative difficulties and problems. It needs to be rethinked, so let us say, from top to bottom, and this is being prepared under the direction of Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Internal Administration. Thirdly, the methodology to be adopted goes through social dialogue, which implies accounts first and later, rather than affecting money first and making the accounts later. Finally, we have made this commitment in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, following the statement made by the Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrito, with a specific time horizon and with the guarantee that the result will be honored. We will be there to follow this process and, indeed, to adopt the legislative solution that is the culmination of this work. This is our style and it is with this that men and women can count on serving in the security forces, not with demagogy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u27	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Energy, João Galamba, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to say to the Greens Ecological Party that the Government is following the priority they have put forward in the proposal which Mr. José Luís Ferreira recently presented. A thorough review of the ECO.AP ( Energy Efficiency Programme in Public Administration ) is under way, as well as a very significant acceleration in the implementation of energy efficiency funds in the Public Administration. There is still a review of the framework that allows the contracting of energy services by the Public Administration, including the production of energy—not only production from photovoltaic solar, but from any source of energy—and the new legislation of the energy communities that also allows the Public Administration, central and local, to invest, add, produce energy, store, share and sell to the network. There is therefore an alignment between the ENP proposal and the strategy that the Government is following in this area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u29	Mrs. Members, there are currently no registrations and there are still several parties, including the PSD, the CDS, the Arrival and the Liberal Initiative, which have not used any time. [[Pause.]] You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : This debate is marked by the commitment of the Social Democratic Party to reduce electricity VAT for Portuguese families. More: we presented the proposal and we did not rest—we are not yet defeated! — we continue to try to achieve this objective. Until the last minute, we are available to lower the energy price for Portuguese. For this reason, we have been available all these weeks, over the last few days and even today, to make the commitments that are necessary in this House to achieve this objective. We therefore voted on the proposal from the CFP which reduces VAT to 6 % and our counterparts. The origin of the proposal does not scare us, the end is that it is relevant. If the end is to lower the VAT of electricity to the Portuguese, we will vote on your proposal without any fear and, in addition, will present our counterpart so that the 0,2 % budget balance is safeguarded. We came yesterday, February 5th, in this house, two strange things—or maybe not! First of all, we saw that Dr.António Costa is the true leader and he is the head of the Central Committee of the PCP. [[PSD applause.]] They speak, they speak, they speak, but in the presence of a cry from Dr.António Costa they sat down and voted alongside the Socialist Party. We also appreciated that the new CDS, between being next to the Portuguese or being next to the Socialist Party, prefers to be next to the PS and hand it over. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is therefore clear that anyone who wants to lower the cost of energy for Portuguese can vote and make that decision today and the Portuguese will benefit from it. Who prefers to roll in games to not achieve this goal will invent all the excuses, but who will be paying the most is the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u31	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u32	Mr President, I have signed up for a request for clarification, not for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u33	Mr. Deputies uses time to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u34	Mr President, it is to be clear that this is a request for clarification to the speaker and that he needs a response.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u35	Yes, Mr President, you have the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u36	Mr Duarte Pacheco, we will not feed on the political chicana in which you have resolved to transform the debate on electricity VAT. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u37	We want to deal with electricity VAT, which is a serious issue and for which we want a solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u38	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u39	So I want to ask you a few questions and ask you to take good note of them, to answer them all and not leave any answers. First question: if the PSD defends the low VAT of electricity, why did you not vote in favour of any of the various low VAT proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u40	Not one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u41	Take note! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u42	Second question: if you defend the lower rate of VAT, why did you withdraw your proposal for VAT reduction before it was approved, exactly when you knew it would be approved? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u43	Don't be demagogue, it's bad for the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u44	And go two!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u45	Third question: if you really want to lower the VAT on electricity, why are you always making this decision depend on new conditions and new difficulties that are inventing as the previous ones are being resolved? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u47	That's the government's speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u48	First they demanded cuts in health. Then they were no longer health cuts, they were only cuts in budget surpluses and cabinets. In the meantime, they remembered that there had to be a deadline and that period was July. [[PSD protests.]] At a few hours of voting on the proposal in the Commission, after all the deadline was no longer July but October. They have always been walking forward, always walking forward, running away from the decision they were supposed to make and that it was to take your proposal to vote for it to be approved, because it had the conditions to be voted on if you hadn't removed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u50	Another question: why is the PSD so concerned about ensuring that the government can charge the electricity tax at 23 % by October? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u52	Why do you want to ensure that the government continues to charge electricity tax to 23 % by October if you say you want to lower the VAT from electricity to 6 %, Member of Parliament? They are more concerned with the government's surplus budget than with reducing electricity VAT, aren't they? Oh, my God! Tell me! Confirm it if it's not like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u53	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u54	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you a question following the intervention you have just made. The honourable Member has just said that he will vote in favour of our proposal, but he would like you to clarify whether, indeed, what the PSD is going to do is approve the proposal of the CFP and ready, or if he will repeat again the stage he has made in recent days on the conditions, saying that he only approves our proposal if we approve the limitation of the proposal... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u55	... and if we agree to enter this game in which the PSD has transformed the VAT decision of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u56	That's blackmail!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u57	Look who's talking about game!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u58	Mr Duarte Pacheco, electricity tax is a very important issue for all Portuguese and not just for some. We no longer expect the PSD to be able to recover from the chicana in which it has transformed this debate, but at least to clarify whether they will continue this stagnation until the end or end it once and for all. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u59	To reply, Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr João Oliveira, this is in such a way that even the speech of the Government and the Socialist Party has already absorbed you. It's so that any day it's on the PS bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u61	Is that your answer? Oh, my God! Come in!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u62	But I am not afraid, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u63	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u64	You should explain why, whether you lower VAT in October or not, you prefer not to lower VAT from electricity to Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Explain this to the Portuguese, but I also say this: let's vote 'yes' on your proposal because we really want to reduce VAT to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u65	And why did you withdraw your proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u66	Mr José Luís Carneiro, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to reiterate in this Parliament that the Government and the Socialist Party also want to reduce energy costs. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u68	And the proof that both want to reduce energy costs is that today more than 800 000 families benefit from the social energy tariff, which means a conquest of the policies of the PS and the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Members Afonso Oliveira and Paulo Neves.]] But we want to reduce energy costs with a high sense of responsibility. It is legitimate that, in the general debate on the proposal from the State Budget, the Democratic Social Party has expressed its position to vote against this proposal. It is legitimate because it presented an electoral programme that was defeated in the elections and the government's proposal does not correspond to the electoral commitment of the Democratic Social Party. But what is totally illegitimate is to want, by means of traversal doors, to condition the proposal of the State budget that is being discussed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Duarte Marques and CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]] It is also incomprehensible for Portuguese and Portuguese who hear us in their homes that, at a time when the Prime Minister of the Country is in Brussels trying to avoid cuts in cohesion funds for the next round of Community frameworks of EUR 1700 million for the next seven years, at a time when we make this effort, there are proposals in this Parliament that want to drop EUR 800 million per year's revenue window. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] In other words, what they propose to this Parliament is a cut in a structural revenue of more than EUR 3, EUR 2 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u69	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u70	Mr. President, I wanted to conclude by appealing to the Democratic Social Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u71	Mr. Deputies has finished your time, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u72	Yesterday, the Social Democratic Party showed a great sense of responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u73	Mr President, I ask you to finish because your time has gone far beyond you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u74	We want to appeal to the sense of responsibility of the PSD so that it will not forget the country's interest and honour the words given to the Portuguese and that it will not distort the budget proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u75	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS is a responsible party. The President of the CDS, at the beginning of his term of office, made a public appeal to the three parties in the area of governance on the issue of electricity VAT, which is a very serious issue for Portuguese and Portugal. This challenge, which was public, had neither the PS nor the PSD. They are now very available to talk but at the right time, in time, they were not. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Secondly, it must be noted that, unfortunately, despite these efforts, it was not possible to achieve an understanding to lower the VAT of electricity as it would be, and it is desirable. It ended up yielding to the pressures of the Left Block and not making the cut at the expense necessary to compensate for the measure. in these circumstances, after the decision of the leadership of the party, the CDS opted for abstention, because it is not possible to vote in favour to the extent that it has not proved its sustainability. Despite the successive questions asked about this throughout the days, and still yesterday, we still hear values ranging between 800 million and less than 100 million euros. The Government is not even able to give a value to its own measure which is included in the bill. It is not possible to take a serious position on a measure when no one knows what its value is or what it will mean in terms of consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u78	Thus, by decision of the leadership of the party, the CDS opted for abstention from the CFP proposal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u79	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would also like to comment on the proposals on the rate of VAT in electricity. in this context, it should be said that the Greens defend the return of the VAT rate of electricity and natural gas to 6 %, a fall without « but not half but not half». The reasons that have led us to fight firmly against the decision to move that rate from 6 % to 23 % of the PSD/CDS Government are exactly the same ones that lead us now, as always, to defend the reduction of the rate to 6 %. On this subject, it is also important to clarify some points that I believe are of interest to the discussion, especially when the environmental objective argument is called for to justify maintaining the electricity VAT rate at 23 %. And why? Because having the intention to promote saving or reducing energy consumption through taxation on access to electricity is a cruel and very unfair social path. On the other hand, one of these days, only those who have a lot of money can turn on the heater, those who don't get cold. Now, the Greens don't line up on this walk. Access to electricity must be available to everyone because it is today a basic need, an essential good for families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u82	So, what we're talking about, when we discuss this matter, is access to a right, what we're talking about is costs as one of the most important factors in family budgets. That is to say, in good rigour, we are talking more about human rights than about the environment. In fact, putting electricity in the lot of luxury goods at tax level, as the PSD/CDS government did, was an offense to families in general, and in particular to the most numerous, with less resources and more socially fragile. Passing the electricity VAT rate of 6 % to 23 % could not remember the devil, but reminded a government that placed the Portuguese, practically, bread and water. As for the PSD proposal, after so many attacks and so many text substitutions, I would like to say the following: The Greens will vote against the counterparts proposed by the PSD because, in our view, these counterparts are more a manoeuvre that the PSD has invented to escape from the crash in which it itself has gone away from what itself is offset by its alleged social concerns. If there were doubts in this regard, they would be dissipated by this fact: the PSD defends VAT in electricity, but withdraws the proposal for a reduction in VAT from electricity. You don't understand, Mr. Duarte Pacheco! This proposal from the PSD still has a virtue because it allows the Portuguese to account. If the PSD rises the electricity VAT rate from 6 % to 23 % when it is in government, and the opposition proposes, and well, the tax rate from 23 % to 6 %, if the accounts are well made, the result can only be one: families only have to win when the PSD is far from power. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u83	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave two notes. First of all, I would like to say that, with this State budget, a reduction in VAT is approved for the essential consumption steps contained in the legislative authorization which the Government has entered into the bill. Although we believe that VAT is not the correct form of lower energy costs for families and businesses and that it is in our electoral programme and in our Government programme, we have this legislative authorization and we will implement it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we will continue to lower energy costs by reducing tariffs, either by injecting the tariff deficit, by lowering tariffs to consumers, or by deepening the social tariff. Secondly, I would also like to say that the proposal and position brought here by the PSD are clearly different from what is to be approved by the Government. What the PSD brought here was not a VAT discount. What the PSD brought was a cut in the National Health Service from EUR 800 million for next year and this is absolutely unacceptable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt: the VAT of electricity will be reduced in accordance with the legislative authorization which the Government has submitted to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u85	I now give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I had not planned to talk about the issue of electricity VAT, but since it is really on the agenda, I would like to inform the House that the Liberal Initiative will vote in favour of the proposal of the CFP. I will not spend much time explaining why, but, from our point of view, in addition to the decline in the tax burden it represents, it is an indirect way, since we have not managed to do so through the IRS, to put money in the Portuguese pocket. But what you had for today, and perhaps you might have surprised some, was a small amendment that we suggested to a VAT standard that the Government wanted to introduce and which reduces the time limit for the Tax Authority to respond to a request for prior authorisation for a declaration of impartiality in VAT — so that people should not have to pay VAT which, in fact, they should not — but which makes the silent answer in 'Reference'. I brought this proposal to the plenary because it is symbolic of the pre-power, arbitrariness and small power of the State which, being the short term, the decision must be of "indifference". It is in these small things that this pre-power of the State is seen, but it is also seen in the big ones, and we have also brought great themes of the State's presence to this discussion, particularly with regard to Article 284. that of the bill in which we proposed the privatization of three companies which makes no sense the State has in its possession. Why is the State to be owner of the TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), of the RTP ( Portugal Radio and Television ), or of the General Deposit Box ( CGD )? Are these good business? RTP received in 2017 — where are the 2018 accounts? Oh, my God! We are already in February 2020! — EUR 216 million in audiovisual contributions. I don't think it's an extraordinary business, because RTP doesn't really generate cash flow. In the first half of last year, TAP recorded EUR 118 million in injury, as it had registered in the whole year 2018. And the General Deposit Box has benefited from EUR 5000 million in public money injection in recent years. I don't think it's an extraordinary business either. But even if they were, it would not be right for the State to be in this business. I am told that sushi restaurant chains are a great business, but you will certainly not propose, in the next Budget, that the state become the owner of a sushi restaurant chain. Some will say that there is public service in these companies. There is certainly at RTP, there is a little bit on TAP and, even I admit, there may be some public service in Box, somewhere. But public service does not mean services provided directly by public undertakings or by the State. Therefore, my gentlemen, these companies are privatized, this public debt is immediately reduced by more than 3 % and Portuguese is isolated from the possibility of covering private or public damages of which they are not responsible. We also bring a proposal to eliminate tax benefits for political parties, which had already brought to this House yesterday, in plenary morning, and which, in the afternoon, was rejected with the votes against the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Portuguese Communist Party — such parties who like taxes, except when they are paying them. When he brought the matter in the morning, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves entered on a stretch that this proposal opened the door to private financing, as if there were no alternatives to the tax benefits to finance parties. Perhaps people do not know that in 2018 the Socialist Party received EUR 5, EUR 3 million of public grants, to which EUR 1, EUR 8 million of shares and subsidiaries’ money— EUR 7 million! I know that last year's election campaign will cost EUR 3 million — EUR 3 million in an election campaign! It is the triple of what the PS proposes, for example, to invest in a campaign to attract tourism to the interior. The Socialist Party can spend three times more on an electoral campaign than what is necessary to take tourists inside! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the alternative is not to resort to private financing and to stay in the hands of less legitimate funding. The alternative is one thing PS does not usually do: the alternative is save! [[PS protests.]] My gentlemen, save in campaigns, save money, save the environment, because campaigns are a real waste horror and, above all, save the patience and portfolio of Portuguese people. [[And in the cabinets!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u87	What about the outdoors? Don't you explain how to finance them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u88	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to reiterate and reinforce the idea that we should all bear in mind that Portugal is one of the countries with the greatest energy poverty, where people do not have financial conditions to warm up their homes — 19 % of people in Portugal do not have these conditions. The most effective way to combat this energy poverty is by extending the social energy tariff. This is a socially just answer that cannot be denied. in this sense, the proposal that the NAP brought to this House aims to extend the current social energy tariff to all people who are receiving unemployment benefit, which will extend the current 800,000 families to one million. We will thus ensure that more than 250 000 families in Portugal have access to energy and a reduction of 34 % in the price of their electricity bill. Obviously, the NAP is committed to ensuring the reduction of the bill that the Portuguese pay and we will continue to be committed to this matter. However, the decrease in turnover is also achieved through energy efficiency policies. The NAP has been, and will be, committed to reducing the VAT of energy produced through renewable sources. We will return to this discussion later and we will always be available to make the necessary, serious and responsible debate on this matter. Therefore, on this point, as the proposals are presented here, we will not be able to follow them at the moment. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u90	To speak, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u91	Are you there yet? Oh, my God! Madrugou!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that brings us back to this discussion today has two very simple lines of separation, who really wants to lower the costs of electricity billing to Portuguese and who does not want to do so. We have two very sharp lines of separation. A first one that says that this is populism and should not be done, when it was the very ones who presented it to this House in 2011 and 2013. And then, of course, we had the usual speech of not being serious, there must be compensatory measures. Well, compensatory measures were presented. Reductions were proposed in foundations, observatories, institutes that are useless, but not to spend money on Portuguese. Cuts were proposed in ministerial offices. And, let's see, there are parties that spend the whole year saying that we have to cut into the ministerial offices—and it wasn't even the arrive, it was the PSD that brought the proposal here...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u93	It was the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u94	By the way, it was the CDS! And when the proposal comes, what they do is turn their backs and say 'we don't agree with it'. How can we spend months saying that we have to make the political system worse, cut into the "fats", and, when it is proposed to cut into the ministerial offices, they say that this cannot be, that it is too much, that it is too much? Oh, my God! Instead, they prefer to have the most expensive electricity VAT! [[PS protests.]] Well, it's very simple to understand. If we look at the purchasing power of Portuguese, electricity in Portugal is the most expensive in Europe. It is the most expensive, in such a country with a left majority capable of performing miracles! Such a government of the great replacement of workers' income will ultimately turn its backs to one of the most important declines for Portuguese people, such as the reduction of VAT in electricity! It is curious, but it is more curious that something else happens that, today, will be known to all: these are the curtain maneuvers of the Socialist Party with the extreme left, on the way, does not walk, votes, does not vote, on which side we are going. With an aggravating!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u95	I should have arrived at the beginning of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u96	It is that you of this party who are here at least saying that there are no conditions for ruling. And yesterday, we were surprised again with Dr. Carlos César — imagine, Dr. Carlos César! — to say: 'Well, if this is approved, perhaps, there are no conditions to govern'. How is there no way to rule? Oh, my God! About anything this House approves says there are no conditions for ruling! And the extreme left there goes back, full of fear of hearing the Portuguese again, full of fear that these gentlemen here will resign once, twice, three times, four times! [[Laughs from BE Mariana Mortágua's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u97	I should have arrived early. That is how I heard the first part of the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u98	Take it easy, Mr. Deputy, you've already spoken in your turn. This strategy of permanent victimization can bear fruit to 5 days, 10 days or 2 months, but will lead Portugal to one of the biggest economic disasters we will still see! And it's not because of the electricity tax. It's because we turn our backs on people! It is because we are able to spend years saying that we have to lower VAT in electricity and, when we have the opportunity to do so, let us turn our backs on them! It is impressive to see how we are able to speak for what is not said in this matter. But today it will be clear, of course, how water, that each one will make the decisions he has to make. They have all the compensatory measures, they had all the chances of lowering VAT in electricity and today, when the end of the day comes, the Portuguese go to invoice again and they will say: "Great work Parliament has done! Great job! How many days of discussion? Four, five, six, seven days of discussion. And how much do I pay for VAT? 23%, exactly the same thing! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[BE's protests.]] We're going up the VAT for the tournaments and we're going to keep the electricity tax. We will continue to have erotic fairs taxed at 6 %, but electricity at 23 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u99	Mr. André Ventura is obsessed with erotic fairs!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u100	We will continue to have this and its opposite, because the people who are there in the galleries will always serve only for this: pay, pay and pay! That is why you understand that the Portuguese serve: to pay, pay and pay! [[Congrats from PSD Mr Carlos Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u101	Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to the issue of electricity VAT and, despite this last intervention, it has been dislocated in relation to the discussion of the first part of the debate, while Mr André Ventura was not in the Hemicycle, he said : Mr Duarte Pacheco, he is not mistaken in relation to the CFP. Mr President, you cannot fool yourself in any way with respect to the CFP! of the three proposals that were submitted, the PCP voted favourably two of them and only did not vote for the PSD because the PSD removed it! If there are votes in favour that are missing, to approve the reduction of VAT, they are not those of the CFP! The PCPs were on all proposals that would lower the electricity VAT. If yesterday, of the votes of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, the decision to reduce electricity VAT was not taken because the PSD decided not to vote on any of the proposals that were voted on in this respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u103	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u104	Mr President, do you know what is extraordinarily incomprehensible in this debate? It is that there were three parties that did not favour any proposal to reduce VAT: it was the PS, the PAN and the PSD! The PS wants the government not to go without the tax money — it was already expectable, we were all expecting that. The NAP has an environmental justification that we have some difficulty understanding, but it was already known about its proposal. What is incomprehensible is that the PSD, for weeks on end, makes the speech that you want to reduce electricity VAT and, after all, when it comes to voting time, only the PSD vote is lacking for the proposals to be approved. That is not understandable, Mr Duarte Pacheco!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u105	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u106	I conclude, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say the following: Our fear in this debate is that this is exactly what happened in July last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u107	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u108	On 5 July, your leader, who is next to you, announced that the PSD was going to fight for the 6 % VAT downturn, but when, on 6 July, we voted here for a legislative proposal from the Autonomous Region of Madeira that aimed precisely this objective, guess what were the votes that were missing to reduce electricity VAT? It was precisely the PSD! I'm afraid you're about to repeat the same joke! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u109	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reduction in electricity VAT is, first of all, a humanitarian issue, not a partisan issue. A large part of the population has no money to heat their home. Statistics on energy poverty are gross. Over the past two years, 36 people have died from issues related to poor heating of houses and precarious ways to make this heating. The decline in electricity VAT will benefit, above all, the poorest, the most economically vulnerable in our society. After the enlargement of the social rate to which the national minimum wage is paid yesterday has been dropped, it is imperative that we lower the VAT on electricity in order to respond to those who have less resources, to whom so many times cannot have wages to arrive at the end of the month, to whom so often goes cold in their home every winter that passes. I believe that, more than anything else, those who think of the most excluded in our society — the poorest — who have a thought on humanitarian issues have to vote in favour of the reduction in the VAT of electricity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u111	There are still no registrations, although the government, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN still have time to intervene. If there are no registrations, we shall immediately proceed to the vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. André Ventura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the time I have left is very short, I just wanted to say the following: there are things that seem, in fact, incomprehensible. Do you not understand that they are not at issue alone, as always, the poorest of the poor? The vast majority of Portuguese are at stake. Forget your rates and your rates and your passwords there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u113	Forget about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u114	We will approve a measure of courage for all Portuguese! All of them! Because everyone deserves a lower VAT in electricity! It is always the same talk of more rates and more rates, social rates, rates A and B!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u115	If you don't know what you're talking about, don't talk! Talk about the New Bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u116	We will approve the measure for all Portuguese: they deserve the bill of electricity to be cheaper. Let us not only think, and always, of the same as ever, but of those who only serve to pay taxes! We are going to give everyone, the whole middle class, all Portuguese, those who pay taxes and support this political system!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u117	Everybody pays taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u118	You have the floor by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presented itself to this debate, saying that it would be responsible. He presented a revenue cut measure of EUR 800 million, saying that he was going to make cuts in expenditure, particularly in the National Health Service. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] Seeing that the unacceptable cuts in health expenditure did not pick up the votes on the left, the PSD gave the answer for not saying, made a reel and said that, after all, the 800 million cuts passed to cuts of EUR 8 million in the cabinets — a few small cuts, a measure to arrive, in which no one believes. Finally, seeing that not even these EUR 8 million cuts were able to approve, the PSD said that, after all, there was no need for compensation, which no longer needed responsibility, which was no longer necessary! What is worth is the policy of everything, of the burned land, to try to divide the left and to try to reach power, questioning the interests of the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is an irresponsible party, drifting, which does everything to divide the left and to reach power. The PSD has a purely burnt land policy strategy and try to divide the left. It does not defend the interests of the country and does not have a policy with a sense of state and responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u120	You have the floor, for a very quick intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I have just forgotten to mention, specifically, those who are most affected and politicized by this tax aggression, people who are in the galleries, who invested millions of euros and created thousands of jobs in local housing and do not deserve what this Budget wants them to do. I leave here a hug to everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u122	I now give the floor to Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I only signed up to quote Mr Duarte Pacheco and his speech when we had the opportunity to discuss this issue. Mr Duarte Pacheco said at the time something different from what you are saying today: "our proposal will not be put to the vote". That's what the PSD said.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u124	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u125	Now, the PSD says something else. He says that, without counterpart, he votes for any proposal. Mrs. In politics, consistency is worth a lot! Coherence is very important in politics! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot start a debate saying that we have a full understanding of the cost that this has. We are not talking about the 2020 revenue, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about structural revenue. This is the revenue for 2020, 2021, 2022! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they assume how they compensate for the structural revenue that is lost with the reduction of VAT. Say, in your terms, what are the counterpart. Otherwise, at least have the honour to do what they said in the debate: withdraw your proposal and vote against proposals that do not have compensation. There's no other reading possible, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u126	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Secretary of State : Again the lie of EUR 800 million? Oh, my God! Please, you don't believe what you say anymore! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, our consistency remains. [[PS protests.]] We did, yesterday, what we have always said, that we would, without counterpart, withdraw our proposal on the reduction of the VAT rate. Today, we are consistently repeating the same message: we are available and we are going to vote in favour of the CFP proposal, because we are committed, from the first day to the last minute, to lower the price of energy to the Portuguese families and then we will vote for the counterparts we have presented. [[PSD applause.]] Let's see how the Socialist Party will vote them, because that's where we're going to see who's responsible and who's irresponsible in this House and Portugal! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u128	As there are no more entries, we shall therefore proceed to the vote. I request the services to prepare the electronic record of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the purpose of the quorum check. [[Pause.]] There's 224 of you. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have more than enough quorum to proceed to the vote. Members who have not been able to register will indicate at the end of the vote, like what happens at other times, that are present. Let us therefore begin by voting on proposal 1012 - C of the PSD, adding Article 16 ( 5 ) to Article 16 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. The vote that was taken yesterday resulted in a draw, which means that if this draw exists again today, the proposal will be rejected, but this may not happen and we will therefore vote on proposal 1012 - C, tabled by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u129	Mr President, this proposal is elsewhere in the script and not at the beginning.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u130	This is a vote before today's lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u131	Knowing this, however, we did not have it at the beginning of our script, so I ask for a moment. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u132	We are already in a position to vote on proposal 1012 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding paragraph 5 to Article 116. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, with votes against the PS, and abstentions by the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote for the votes scheduled for today, starting with the proposal 607 - C, tabled by the CH, to add a Article 19. o-A — Risk allowance for all security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u133	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u134	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u135	Mr President, yesterday at the end of the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, we requested that the remaining articles concerning the New Bank be voted on in accordance with this article, because there are conditional votes. Mr President, the error of this vote was from the Bureau, it was not from any parliamentary group, since this vote should have taken place yesterday, and we would then vote on the articles relating to the New Bank, in particular a proposal from the NAP for which our sense of vote was conditional upon the adoption or rejection of the PSD proposal. This has been said with complete transparency both to colleagues and to the House and therefore I ask that the NAP proposal be voted on at least.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u136	Mr President, I did not have the full explanation of the situation of voting on one proposal and the other. We shall therefore vote on proposal 914 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding the new Article 127. o -A — Limitations on the application or use of public funds in credit institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u137	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u138	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u139	Mr President, for the proper purpose, because the validation of the vote will also be done in this way, I would like to point out that the Left Block Parliamentary Group is already complete, so it has 19 Members and not the 18 Members who have registered at the right time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u140	Mr President, now is not the time to make such an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u141	Mr President, it is to be registered to then there is no doubt about voting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u142	We agreed that it was at the end of the votes that this was said. Let us then vote on proposal 914 - C, tabled by the NAP. Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u143	Mr President, I am sorry, but we would like to ask that the proposal be voted on by numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u144	Let us then vote on paragraph 1 of proposal 914 - C, adding the new Article 127. o -A — Limitations on the application or use of public funds in credit institution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2 of proposal 914 - C. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] We shall vote on paragraph 3 of proposal 914 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote on paragraph 4 of proposal 914 - C. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposals discussed in today's debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u145	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u146	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u147	Mr President, there were still other proposals for voting in this script, including proposal 370 - C, submitted by the CFP, and proposal 1074 - C, submitted by BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u148	Mr President, what Mr Duarte Pacheco here asked was that the NAP proposal should be voted on, and there was no interest in voting on the other proposals. I understand that people have little sleep and are very tense, but we need to calm down.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u149	Mr President, it is not a matter of sleeping little or much; it is a question that the proposals were on the script yesterday and therefore if these proposals are voted on, they must also be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u150	As we voted for the NAP, then we will also vote on those which you have mentioned and which are: proposals 370 - C from the CFP, and 1074 - C from BE. Let us begin by voting on proposal 1074 - C, submitted by BE, adding an article 127. o -A — Resolution Fund. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD and votes in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 370 - C, tabled by the CFP, amending Article 127. o -A — Resolution Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u151	Mr President, I am sorry, but when we voted on the proposal from the Commission, we ask that the vote be made by numbers and we would now need to do it in the same way. Otherwise we couldn't...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u152	Madam Member, we are in the middle of the vote... you can vote according to your idea of the whole number. Mrs. Members, let us vote on proposal 370 - C, tabled by the CFP. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL abstained from PAN and CH and votes in favour of BE, PCP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] Let us now, yes, enter today's script votes, beginning with the vote on the proposal 607 - C, presented by the CH, of adding an article 19. o-A — Risk allowance for all security forces. [[Subject to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and abstentions of the PSD, the PCP and the ENP.]] We shall vote on proposal 410 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding Article 28. o -A — Allocation of the risk allowance to the personnel of the security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 413 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding an article 28. o -A — Increase of round supplement or patrol attributed to security forces. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 162 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 34. o -A — Supplements to be paid for security forces and services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on proposal 379 - C, submitted by BE, adding Article 34. o -A— Payment supplements and risk allowance. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 1121 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add Article 34. o -A — Payment of retroactive remuneration supplements. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from PSD, BE, PCP and ENP.]] We shall vote on proposal 1126 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add Article 34. o -A — Review of the system of remuneration supplements. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from PSD, BE, PCP and ENP.]] We shall vote on the proposal 127 - C submitted by the ENP to add Article 26. o -A — Energy efficiency programme in Public Administration. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 308 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 160. o -A — Elimination of tips, fees and emoluments in public higher education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 1230 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 160. o -A — Minimum tip value and partial time. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 986 - C, submitted by the PS, for the addition of Article 161. o-D — Minimum limit of the value of the tip. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] At the request of the PS, and with regard to proposal 61 - C, we shall first vote paragraphs 1 and 2 and then paragraphs 2 and 3. Let us then vote on paragraphs 1 and 2 of proposal 61 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 162. o -A — New reduction in the value of propines in public higher education institutions. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD, CDS-PP and IL and the abstention from CH.]] We shall now vote on paragraphs 3 and 4 of proposal 61 - C, submitted by BE. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 327 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 162. o -A— Free distribution of new school textbooks No. 1. the basic education cycle of the public network of the Ministry of Education. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 326 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 163. the -A - Free educational resources of 1. the basic education cycle of the public network of the Ministry of Education. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, PAN and PEV and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 849 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 163. o -A— Extension of the free system and reuse of school textbooks and introduction of resource conditions. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 853 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 163. o-B — Extension of the free system and reuse of school textbooks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal 381 - C submitted by the CH for the addition of Article 165. o -A — Extension of the freeness of school textbooks to students of private or cooperative schools. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CH and the IL, and abstentions against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on proposal 384 - C submitted by the IL to add Article 165. -A - Free textbooks. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 663 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 165. the -A - Free textbooks number 1. the cycle of basic education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1175 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 165. o -A — Portuguese teaching abroad. [[Subject to the vote was rejected, with votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 299 - C, submitted by BE, to add Article 261. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006, August 11 and repeal of Ordinance No 10272013, of March 11. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 91 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 168. o -A - Moderate fees. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 4 - C, submitted by BE, adding an article 173. o -A— Absence of moderate rates in primary health care. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 103 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 284. o -A— Amendment of Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] Let's vote for proposal 318 - C...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u153	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for an explanation to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u154	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u155	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group wants the PSD to bring to the vote now what it asked us to do yesterday in the Committee on Budgets and Finance on its proposal to reduce the VAT rate. Yesterday, in the specialty vote, the PSD asked first of all to vote on its proposal on Article 215. o-B, which concerned financial compensation, then the proposal on Article 215. o -A, which had to do with the entry into force of the measure, and it was only then that it decided to withdraw its proposal for a reduction from the VAT rate to 6 %. So the question we're asking is whether we're going to follow the same order we used in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since all these articles are for the vote here in plenary, I suppose what makes sense is to be voted in the same order yesterday. So let's start with Article 215. o-B, proposal 1023 - C, submitted by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u157	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u158	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u159	Mr. President, you understand perfectly what the problem of the Socialist Party is... [[PS protests.]] What is to be voted on is the proposal to reduce the VAT rate to 6 %, proposed by the CFP, and then the counterparties presented by the PSD if this measure is approved. So the PS has two hypotheses: either accept our counterparts or, in an unbeatable way, leave the amended budget and, as you do not want to make that vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u160	Mr President, we are not in the process of making speeches. We're at a point of order at the table to see how we're going...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u161	... you're trying to reverse the order in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u162	That's a lack of consistency!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u163	Mr President, I was not at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance last night, following the events, but I think that what was requested yesterday by the PSD would make sense that it was also respected today in these votes on a matter of consistency. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u164	Mr President, I would like to say the following: whoever is truly concerned about solving the problem of electricity VAT does not give any relevance to the order of votes and keeps the votes that have been taken. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u165	Therefore, for the CFP it is absolutely indifferent to the order in which the votes are taken, because we are not doing political games here, we really want VAT to be lowered. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u166	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor, asking that we no longer extend this incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u167	Mr President, if you consult the minutes of yesterday's meeting, you can verify that yesterday we voted first on the CFP proposals and then on the PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]] [[No, that's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u168	Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u169	Mr President, this PSD intervention is another reel in this process of reducing the rate of VAT in electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u170	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u171	What happened yesterday — and the people who followed the work of the speciality at home saw - he was Mr Duarte Pacheco saying in the Committee on Budgets and Finance...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u172	Mr President, I am not going to authorize interventions on this subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u173	... that the PSD wanted to vote first on the proposal relating to Article 215. o-B, then the reference to 215. o -A and, depending on the outcome of these votes, the proposal relating to Article 215. o. That's what happened. Therefore, what is at least required is that, now, in lawyers, if you follow what the PSD itself asked yesterday to do. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u174	And if the PSD doesn't have the courage, the hombreity the consistency of keeping its position... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. I will return to the plenary the decision on this issue, because I already realized that there are at least three different positions: that of the PSD, that of the PCP, which is abstention, and that of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u176	Therefore, the PS requires — and I make an oral request — that exactly be made the same sequence of votes that took place yesterday in the Committee on Budgets and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u177	I will put this request to the consideration of the plenary and we will vote on it. [[Subject to the vote, abstained from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, IL and non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PSD and CH were approved with votes in favour of PS, PAN and PEV.]] Therefore, Mr Duarte Pacheco's request has not been accepted. Let us then vote first on proposal 1023 - C3, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 215 is added. o-B — Ministerial offices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, BE, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on proposal 1023 - C2, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 215 is added. o -A — Transitional provision under the Value Added Tax Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, BE and IL and the abstention from the CDS-PP and CH.]] Let's move on to Article 214. o — Amendment to List I Annex to the VAT Code, beginning with the vote on proposal 318 - C submitted by the CH, in the part in which amends item 2.12 of List I Annex to the VAT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE, the PAN and the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 318 - C, submitted by the CH, in the part in which it amends item 2.16 of List I annexed to the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP and PEV were rejected.]] We shall vote on proposal 272 - C, tabled by the CH, amending to Rule 2.32 of List I Annex to the VAT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN and the ENP of the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL, and abstention from the CFP.]] We shall vote on proposal 980 - C, tabled by the PSD, amending to Rule 2.32 of List I Annex to the VAT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and the PCP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 1112 - C of the CDS-PP amending Rule 214 of Rule 214 of List I. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the PCP abstention.]] The following is proposal 1125 - C, submitted by the ENP, amending Rule 214 ( 214 ) of List I, as set out in Article 214. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP, the CH NAP and the IL.]] Let us now vote on proposal 1216 - C of the CFP, amending Rule 214 ( 214 ) of List I, as annexed to the VAT code. o-C of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PCP, the CDS-PP and the CH and abstentions against the PSD and the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on Rule 214 of Rule 214 of List I, which is annexed to the VAT code. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member of Parliament Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CCP of the CDS-PP and the ENP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on Article 215. the proposal for a law—Additional to List I annexed to the VAT Code. Let us begin by voting on proposal 13 - C of the CFP, in the part in which I add the words 2.12 to List I annexed to the VAT code.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u178	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u179	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u180	Mr President, are we going to vote on proposal 13 - C, which is exactly the same as proposal 318 - C of the Arrival, which just went down a minute ago?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u181	Madam Member, we cannot be here to see the texts of the proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u182	Mr President, I think that, given the importance of the matter, it would be relevant, would it not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u183	Madam Member, we lose less time if we vote on it. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u184	I express my full solidarity with the position of Mr President, because in fact Mr President is not guilty of other parliamentary groups copying the proposals of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u185	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to make any speeches or jokes in the middle of the vote. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u186	Mr President, on the proposal to be equal, I would like to say that I am strange that Mr Duarte Alves so often said that the proposals that were equal could not be voted on today are silent and he says absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u187	We are in the middle of the vote, no interventions are allowed that are not related to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u188	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u189	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u190	Mr President, I would like to make a statement of vote on proposal 1216 - C.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u191	Mr President, the explanations of vote will be at the end of the proceedings. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on proposal 13 - C of the CFP, in the part in which I add to List I of the VAT Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 13 - C of the CFP, in the part where I add to List I the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, NAP were rejected, and MP did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of BE, PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on item 2.34 of List I, annexed to the VAT code, as set out in Article 215. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and Non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 13 - C of the CFP, in the part where I add to List I the VAT code. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and IL.]] We shall now vote for the body of Article 215. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u192	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u193	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u194	Mr President, I would like to ask that proposal 177 - C be voted on disaggregately, i.e. that we vote first on Amendment No 2.8 and then on Amendment No 2.9.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u195	All right, Mr President, let us then vote on BE's proposal 177 - C, to add Article 218. o -A — Addendum to List II annexed to the VAT Code, beginning with the vote on 2.8. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH and IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on 2.9. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the IL were rejected.]] The vote on Article 218 ( 2 ). o -A, added by proposal 177 - C, is thus damaged. Let us now turn to Article 240. the proposal for a law — Amendment to the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities. We begin by voting on Article 18 ( 17 ). Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 — Financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 935 - C of the NAP amending Article 26 ( 3 ). that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] Mrs. Members, we now turn to the vote on the proposal 863 - C1, of the NAP, amending Article 32 ( 1 ) ( c ). the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 863 - C2, submitted by the NAP, replacing Article 32 ( 1 ( d ). that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 863 - C3 of the NAP, in the part where Article 32 ( ( e ) is added to Article 32 ( 1 ). the Law 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, BE, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on the PAN proposal 863 - C3, in the part in which Article 32 ( f ) is added. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions from the PSD, BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote for the body of Article 240. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal 73 - C of the NAP for the addition of Article 240. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 178 / 2006 of 5 September 2006 [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Members, the following is Article 241. the proposal for a law — Addendum to the financial arrangements of the authorities and inter-municipal entities. Let us begin by voting on Article 18. -A of Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September 2013 — Financial arrangements for local authorities and inter-municipal entities as set out in Article 241. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on Article 19. The same law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 241. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the vote on Rule 265. the proposal of law— Amendment to Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. We begin by voting on proposal 245 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 16 (6) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the Member of Parliament registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 245 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 16 ( 7 ) is amended. that of the same law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall now vote on proposal 927 - C of the NAP amending Article 32 ( b ) ( 1 ). the Law 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 927 - C, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which Article 33 (2) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall vote on proposal 927 - C of the NAP, in the part in which Article 33 ( 3 ) is amended. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall vote on proposal 927 - C, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which Article 33 (4) is amended. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We now vote on proposal 245 - C1, from the CFP, in the part in which Article 40 ( 2 ) is amended. the Law No 71 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We now vote on proposal 245 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 40 ( 6 ) is amended. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on proposal 245 - C2, from the CFP, in the part in which Article 49 ( 10 ) is added. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 51 ( a ) ( 7 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 265. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on Article 51 ( 7 ( b ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 265. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 51 ( 7 ( c ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 265. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, CH and IL abstentions.]] We now vote on the body of Article 51 ( 7 ). the Law No 73 / 2013 of 3 September, as set out in Article 265. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on proposal 245 - C2, of the CFP, to add Article 51 ( 13 ). the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] We are now voting on proposal 993 - C of the NAP, in the part where paragraph 13 is added to Article 51. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the CH were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from BE.]] Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by the vote on proposal 245 - C2 submitted by the CFP, in the part where a point ( c) is added to paragraphs 5 and 7 to Article 52. the Law No 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] We are now voting on proposal 993 - C of the NAP, in the part where Article 52 ( 7 ) is added. that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstain from BE and CH.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 245 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which Article 54 ( 1 ( c ) is amended. the Law 73 / 2013, of 3 September. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 501 - C of the BE, replacing Article 86 ( 3 ). that of the same law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We shall vote for the body of Article 265. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 922 - C, tabled by the NAP, on the addition of Article 265. o -A — Amendment to Annex I to Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September 2013. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 284. o — Amendment to Decree-Law No 57 / 2019 of 30 April. We shall vote on Article 9 (2). the Decree-Law No 57 / 2019 — Transfer of competences of the municipalities to the bodies of the parish, as well as the body of article 184. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 575 - C2, of the IL, for the addition of Article 284. o-B — Revoking rule under Law 19 / 2003 of 20 June 2003. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and IL, and abstentions against CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on proposal 806 - C of the PSD amending Map II — Reinforcement of appropriations in EUR 5 000 000 — as set out in Article 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, votes against the PS and abstentions of the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 809 - C of the PSD amending Map II — Reinforcement of appropriations in €1 250 000 — as set out in Article 1 ( 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL, votes against the PS and abstentions of the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Map II, as set out in Article 1 ( 1 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of the PS, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We have thus reached the end of the vote on the rules avocados and, with this, at the end of the vote, in the speciality, of Bill No 5 / XIV – Approves the State budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u196	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u197	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u198	Mr President, it is to be announced that, with regard to the vote on the proposals for amendments to the VAT of the Tauromakia, myself and the honourable Members. Deputies António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Carlos Pereira, Clarise Campos, Cristina Jesus, Eurídice Pereira, Fernando Paulo Ferreira, Hugo Costa, João Azevedo, João Azevedo Castro, João Miguel Gouveia, João Miguel Nicolau, João Paulo Pedrosa, Joaquim Barretto, Jorge Gomes, José Manuel Carpinteira, Lara Martinho, Luís Moreira Testa, Manuel dos Santos Afonso, Mara Coelho, Marcos Perestrello, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Norberto Patinho, Nuno Sá, Palmira Maciel, Pedro Coimbra, Raul Miguel Castro, Ricardo Pinheiro, Santinho Pacheco, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, Sofia Araújo, Telma Gueriro and Vera Braz will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u199	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u200	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I could not register at the beginning of the work, but I was present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u201	So, it is registered Mr Deputy, just as are registered Mrs. Sérgio Sousa Pinto ( PS ), Inês de Sousa Real ( PAN ), Eduardo Teixeira ( PSD ), Sandra Cunha ( BE ), Nuno Sá ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u202	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u203	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u204	Mr President, it is to inform that I have also subscribed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to the VAT of the Tauromakia, just mentioned by Mr Pedro do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u205	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us therefore move on to the conclusion of the debate on the proposed Law Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020, 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020 and 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u206	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, finish this party and we are raising the budget table. Sitting at the head of the budget table is the socialist, lamp and all-powerful state, with « bread and knife in hand». Look satisfied around the table for your privileged outfit to the one who gives the biggest pieces of this bread. They are the friends of the regime, they are the central bodies of everything and something else, they are the customers who do well to appeal to the vote or to use in the lapel and they are the political parties who do not pay any taxes. This ensemble, these privileged around the budget table, has called for the Socialist State to see if this year they can achieve a greater level than last year's birthday. After all, this is the budget table and the asset has to be fed. Around this budget table, basically ignored by the powerful regime who wouldn't let them walk around if they didn't count a vote, the invalids, in growing numbers, who longed for the crumbs that the State would drop or resolve to shoot at the side of the table. They have already become accustomed to living out of the charity of the Budget, and assistanceism has become the only way of life they know. No one encourages them to make their own bread. Worse, no one already tells them that they can make their own bread, make their own decisions, be free and own of their own life. And yet that is what, out here, a few, I would say, some crazy, do: their own bread, without need of the state and, above all, without waiting for it. Despite taxes that do not stop increasing, despite the daily difficulties of those who own their lives, despite being seen as evildoers, despite ideological prejudices against the private, they make their own bread. It is the same bread that the Socialist State has in its hand at the head of the budget table, which is as secure as if it were from it, as if it had. It's not, and it hasn't. The State only appropriates itself to the fruit of people's work, it does not produce anything. The state doesn't make any bread. This Budget increases the size of your table, but reduces the number of people stimulated to make your own bread. And we all know how this will end: they'll have to get more bread-making people until there's nothing left but crumbs. We voted against this and we fought against this. Portugal and the Portuguese cannot continue without joy and without hope, always waiting for the State to provide, for the State to resolve, for the State to order, for the State to decide for them. This can't go on! We have to have a smaller budget table and make there are many tables spread by this Portugal, around which free people share with their own, and with joy, the fruits of their own work. That's why we will vote, and that's why we will fight, always.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u207	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The happy and pleased air that Mr Prime Minister has entered this Parliament today is very symptomatic of what has happened here. Not that I have something against Mr. Prime Minister being satisfied,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u209	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u210	... but, in fact, he achieved what he wanted: to approve the « Curtaining Budget ». This is in fact the « Budget of the curtain», the Budget of those who were going to veto everything, send everything down, vote everything at the millimeter, but who, when the right time arrived, ended up giving their hand—as always and as they had to—to the government, who already had them behind the curtain, promised or 'VAT' of the Tauromachia, or social tariffs or tariffs of anything else. Finally, these crumbs that have actually been distributed, and very well distributed, by those who will one day look back, repent of the support they have given and say: «We did not know, we have nothing to do with this». But it is also the Budget that tells the Portuguese that they serve essentially to pay: « Pay, we are here to use the money! Do not keep on seeking. ” Public housing? Why not? “ Let’s pay! » Do you pay for this and that? Why not? We're all here, every day, to pay, to keep paying. And if they want to increase, we will also be here to endure this increase. Why not 25 % VAT or 27 % VAT or 29 % VAT? Who knows, one day, this left will also say that it is in the name of the great environmental emergency that we live in our time. And why not 30 % VAT on behalf of the good principles? But this is also the Budget that turned to the police, teachers, entrepreneurs, the Budget that turned to the staff essentially voted to work every day in the Public Administration. And so the strike announcements don't stop happening. After all, such a left friend of public officials once again did nothing but turn their faces around. But this budget has something else interesting. It was, they said, the budget champion of the fight against corruption, but with one otherwise: it is that whoever fights corruption will have less money in the budget, which is curious. It is a sort of almost impossible reasoning, that 'they will do better, but we will take your weapons to do better'. The greatest paradigm is the end of the Court of Auditors' visa in some of the works that will be carried out over the coming year. Such a budget of transparency which, after all, will no longer be seen by judges in the undertakings and in the businesses of real estate and local housing and accommodation for students—is very, very symptomatic. Just as the VAT of electricity ends up being symptomatic of what would happen on the part of those who are always here to say that they will resign, that they will leave, and that we must therefore be careful, so that, then, everything will be exactly the same. This budget brings us a story: that it only yields to blackmail who thinks it has to yield. Who is not afraid of the Portuguese, who knows what he fights every day for them, never yields to blackmail. Therefore, this Budget, which was the « Budget of the Curtain», ended up being the « Budget of blackmail », the Budget in which they told the other political forces « or approve what we want, or we are going to leave » and in which others have chosen to say « then, here we are, let us present».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u211	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u212	I shall conclude, Mr President, with reference to an attack, which is historic and which this Parliament must one day record, made to the Tauromacy. We took the first step to kill a historical art, in Portugal. Little gives us the votes, then, of those who didn't want to join, but joined together, the lists of names and those who still want to put the name...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u213	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. Today, we have to assume this here: we started killing the rural world... Protest by PAN Member André Silva. ...and it is this government and this majority that have to be responsible for killing this rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u215	What about the erotic fairs? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is a State Budget for? The State budget serves to define the priorities of government action, to improve people's lives, to fill needs, to improve services, to take care of the environment, we are able to achieve social and environmental balance. Does the state budget proposal of the PS Government meet these objectives? Only in part. Of course, because it reflects a brake on the way taken in the last State budgets. The truth is that the PS continues to opt for a frightening injustice, or for a thin investment in public services that face various difficulties. The truth is that there is a weak response to the climate challenge that we face, because this is a challenge that is not matched only by words, promises or intentions. We have already said this before, the continuity, which the Government so much speaks of, does not refer to the content of the Budget and the priorities set there, but it only translates into the way in which the Government continues to look at the European Union's taxes and the accounts of the deficit. Here, yes, is the continuation of a line of obsession, which continues to guide the budgetary priorities of the PS Government. The Greens made it clear, in the discussion, in general, that they provided an opportunity for the Government to improve the budget and make it an essential instrument, providing more answers to the problems that persist in the country and that the Portuguese continue to feel, both from a social and environmental point of view. This State budget is far from responding to the most serious problems facing the country and to the legitimate expectations of the Portuguese. This State budget is far from responding to the investment needs of public services in general and, in particular, in the National Health Service, in education, in justice, in public transport, and is far from achieving the environmental sustainability that is so much appreciated. « Words lead them to the wind», Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! When it was time to approve the proposals of the ENP, to carry out a strategic environmental assessment ( EPA ) for the research and exploration of minerals for airport spaces and for the National Regadios Programme, a serious, structural evaluation that would only contribute to the real knowledge of the territory, the PS and PSD joined to vote against. After all, where have environmental concerns been? After the miracle of dams, there are other miracles: that of the minerals, especially that of lithium, the miracle of intensive crops and the miracle of airports for half-dozen years. And as miracles are concerned, studies, knowledge of the territory and soils and the involvement of populations are refused. It advances in the direction of the destruction of nature and landscape, in the name of a supposed growth and wealth for just a few. They cry « crocodile tears» by the teachers, but at the time of truth, PS, PSD and CDS led the ENP proposal to support the relocation and relocation of teachers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the vote on the State budget, we generally abstained, but, in the field of specialty, the ENP did not refrain from delivering a set of proposals, in order to transport social justice and environmental balance to this State budget. These proposals are focused on the axes that we consider essential, particularly in combating climate change, promoting the interior and combating regional asymmetries, fiscal justice and strengthening public services. After the great conquest of social passes, we want to deepen the path of promoting public transport as a response to climate change and, on a proposal from the Greens, the long-term unemployed will have the cheapest Social Pass, and the extension of the Social Pass + to the whole country will also be a reality. Several concerns about the environment have entered this Budget at the initiative of the Greens, namely: strengthening human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity, a path that began four years ago; strengthening money for the Animal Collection Centres and establishing a working group to identify the real needs of municipalities to deal with the abandonment of domestic animals and improve their policies for animal welfare; or strengthening the Energy Efficiency Programme in Public Administration. Other proposals were approved in several areas, namely: free emergency medication for severe allergies, support for people with disabilities or support for family farming. Let us go back to the initial question: What is a Budget for? A budget, rather than giving visibility to disputes between parties or to the inconsistencies of each one — so obvious in the PSD's position on electricity VAT — serves to respond to people's problems. The Greens'choice, in the global final vote, will signal what has been positive here, also on our own initiative, and will seek to give the Government the opportunity not to fail, this time, in the implementation of what has now been approved, but calls for another direction in the response to the legitimate interests of the people by the Government's action. Our vote will therefore be abstention. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u218	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u219	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The debate on the speciality of the State budget for 2020 now ends. As always, the NAP has engaged with proposals and with a sense of convergence with all parties capable of establishing bridges. We have been the voice of more and more people who trust us and the arm of various non-governmental organizations (NGOs), professional orders, associations or unions. This budget has taken a few steps. It is far better to leave Parliament than it has entered, but we recognize that on many points it has fallen short of what is possible. We have succeeded in correcting some tax distortions, relieving taxes on those who work and increasing revenue through environmental taxes. The work of the NAP in this Budget ensured that the ceiling of the VAT exemption of service providers would be increased from 10 000 € to 12 500 €. And because mental health and inclusion are fundamental to the NAP, and should be a design for the country, we guarantee the exemption of VAT in the provision of services of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters and psychology. It is due to the essential role played by psychologists in the community who, with pride, after so many years, have finally been approved the integration of psychologists into the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences ( CNECV ). And by speaking in life and ethics, and in respect that we owe to others, we can correct one of the biggest tax obscenities in our country: the VAT of tauromakia. [[PAN's applause.]] [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] Tauromachy is the greatest manifestation of human cowardice, which lives of fun alarmes with the fragility of others. And in this matter we do not understand the position of the PSD. The PSD has to choose whether it wants to be a 21st century party, progressive, with high ethical values, which accompanies the evolution of society and be an alternative government, or whether it wants to stay in « Portugal dos Pequininos ». [[PAN's applause.]] Little was also the government's wager in this Budget in green taxation, by maintaining various perverse subsidies. in a climate emergency context, the exemptions of ISP (tax on oil and energy products) on the production of energy, aviation or maritime navigation are not understood. It is unfortunate that the Government did not accept the package of measures submitted by the NAP aimed at increasing energy efficiency through various instruments, incentives and fiscal policies. It is not understood that meat producers do not only pay taxes as the State still pays them to pollute.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u220	You don't pay taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u221	But why are all the economic sectors taking responsibility for combating climate change and the overprotected meat industry out there? The answer is easy: because of the negative PS / PSD coalition that in this country all allow the CAP ( Confederation of Farmers of Portugal ). Although there are many differences between the NAP and PS and PSD, our role is to find joint solutions for the country and to improve environmental responses. And finally, and after four years of work, we managed to review the waste management rates, which aim to deter the landfill and incineration of waste and encourage its recycling, on the path of a true circular economy. Residue sector regulation is an environmental priority. Therefore, it is important that we approve, which aims to create waste management flows such as oils or clothing, extending the responsibility to producers for the treatment of waste. Mobility is another vehicle for sustainability and therefore we have worked to achieve incentives for the purchase of bicycles and the deduction in IRS of expenses on public transport tickets. They are measures that combine environmental sustainability with healthy lifestyles that need to move forward. And that's why we are fighting to strengthen investment in conversion projects for organic agriculture, a way to produce more ethical food and that leaves the agrotoxics out of the dish. [[CDS-PP and CH protests.]] A healthy diet promotes individual well-being and contributes to the sustainability of the National Health Service, insofar as healthy eating habits reduce the prevalence of chronic non-communicable diseases, which is why it is essential to strengthen nutritionists in the services of the Ministry of Education. There is currently only one nutritionist for the whole country, but in this Budget the hiring of 15 nutritionists is included, a significant step in public health policies. [[PAN's applause.]] Today no one doubts that the rights of animals are on the national political agenda because of the NAP and its action. We see the Socialist Party's intention to double-tax people who have pets in their charge, which was only reverted by the insistence and work of the NAP. But it was also due to the action of the NAP that a legal regime will finally be created for the well-known animal, livestock and wild sanctuaries that will allow the collection, recovery and lodging of animals that have been treated as commodities. People know that the work and commitment of the NAP contribute to a more inclusive country. This budget provides for the extension of the current social energy tariff to all unemployed people, increasing the access of current 800 000 families to 1 million. We have thus made it possible for more than 200 000 families in Portugal to have access to a reduction of 34 % in the price of their electric invoice. [[PAN's applause.]] This budget also implements the National Strategy for the Integration of People in a Hostless Situation, because it extends to the whole country the housing first project, a housing response program for these people. And because the crime of domestic violence closes serious and profound repercussions on the family, professional and social levels of victims, it is important that, in a scenario of fear, insecurity and violence, there are efficient and prompt responses. A family restructuring allowance is thus entered in this budget, which allows victims to be absent for 10 days of work, with the remuneration paid at 100 %, with the aim of allowing them to reorganise their lives and the immediate removal of the aggressor without losing their labour rights. Finally, this budget is also marked by the consecration of a standard whereby, for the first time, since there are massive injections of public money in the New Bank, any new injection of money in this bank must be approved by Parliament, on a proposal by the Government which discriminates capital values and the form of restitution to the State. For the first time, on a proposal from the NAP, Portuguese will be able to understand the real impact of these money injections on public accounts through technical opinions of independent entities free of any political constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u222	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I shall finish as I began: this budget is not the best, but with the work and commitment of the NAP, it leaves Parliament better than it has entered. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u224	Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In the words of the Prime Minister, I believe that this State budget is more than that — it is little. The first trait that characterizes it is the absolute absence of a strategy for the country. The great absence of this Budget was the economy. As for the fact that Portugal grew less than it was growing in 2019, the government gives the answer: nothing! As for the fact that our savings levels are extremely low, the government has answers: zero! And as for the fact that Portugal is always being exceeded in GDP per capita by other European countries, the government says nothing. The only true path, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, for better wages it is more growth. This government is very concerned about distributing the cake, but nothing about making it grow. It should also be said that this lack of strategy has worsened during the specialization debate. The true rain of proposals that have entered here turns this Budget into a blanket of flaps. It is worth saying that, as regards proposals, activity, hyperactivity and fiscal creativity did not know any limits. The sky was the limit! Fortunately, taxes were placed on meat, air transport or lead, but taxes on packaging, cellulose and on local accommodation were imposed. These taxes are not just about the state's revenue, they are mainly about a state that thinks it can control and make moral judgments about each other's life. They are ideologically characterized by prejudice. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is particularly visible in the touradas, which this House has decreed that, for tax purposes, it is pure and simply not culture and not tradition. Why? Because the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't like it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u226	Some, some!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u227	And because they don't like and don't have the courage to be consistent and to ban, then they penalize and punish for tax effects. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u228	These proposals are also characterized by deep prejudice against the rural world.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u229	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u230	Mr André Silva — eyes in his eyes — it is the absolute disrespect that you show for the way in which many Portuguese people live that you do not know at all. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The rural world is not a place where you will walk without knowing how people live there. It is a world that deserves at least its respect. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u231	Allarve, Mr André Silva, is you to rise on a judge of other lifestyles, wanting to impose on everyone what you see, the way they travel and even what they eat. Mr André Silva, you have every right not to like meat, not to eat meat, to be vegan, vegetarian or what you understand, you have no right to come here to make ethical and moral judgments about what everyone eats! How frank! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Have limits! Live your life as you understand, now you won't impose your lifestyle on us. I would also like to recall that, of the many proposals put forward, some with all sense and justice, others with no strict sense whatsoever and many without the slightest connection to the Budget, there was very little time for an analysis with the seriousness with which it must be made. This was particularly visible not only in the work of the night but also in the jigagames and in the changes of vote we observed. Over the last 12 hours, we have been able to see, for example, the CDS proposals on the supplements of the security forces, the same parties have completely different ways of voting in relation to proposals with exactly the same content, according to their author. As we also saw one party, in relation to the same proposal, or proposals with the same content, voting against, abstaining and, on the way, announcing a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u232	Don't blame others for their work!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u233	These discussions must be made seriously and responsibly, not depending on the authors or with decisions taken on the knee. in this matter, because our top priority is to relieve the tax burden and relieve the IRS,... [[BE's laughs.]] ... also liked to recall that the CDS presented proposals to cut spending in the ministerial offices, that the Left Block led, and in biosimilar drugs, not harming the patients, but perhaps harming some pharmaceutical industry, that the Left Block protected the proposal, and also presented proposals ending with the privilege of the IMI of the parties. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Perhaps if they wanted to negotiate these proposals as compensation for electricity VAT instead of giving in to the requirements of the Left Block so that there would be no cut in the expense, perhaps we were now having another discussion. Policy are choices and options and we will not give up having this discussion seriously and with an analysis of UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) in relation to the cost of the main tax reductions that have to exist in Portugal, so that we can discuss them with numbers on the table that do not range from 8 to 800 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u235	Finally, I would like to say that the CDS presented its alternative, with a tax relief in the middle class IRS, compensating it with cut-off measures on expenditure and social justice measures, in which we do not agree to increase the higher pensions and lower pensions of EUR 210, EUR 252 and EUR 273, and also with an option of freedom of choice, without ideological prejudice, knowing that, for many Portuguese who wait and hope for a first consultation, it would be essential that we leave prejudices and leave them to use the social and private sector. Unfortunately, none of these proposals were accepted. The CDS is consistent and will seriously vote against the State budget. [[On your feet, applause from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u236	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Today we close the discussion of the State budget for 2020 which began from a proposal marked by the shortcomings and limitations resulting from the PS options and which is therefore unable to respond to the country's acute problems. The abstention that the CFP takes in the overall final vote of the State budget proposal gives an expression to a political position that goes away from this budget and from the options of the PS Government in it reflected. The option to obtain a budget surplus, rather than to place as priority the response to the country's structural problems and to the needs of workers and the people, the option not to face the economic groups' domain on national life, the lack of a decisive response to public investment are examples of aspects that mark this Budget. It is confirmed that this is a distant budget from the previous four budgets. After the discussion on the specialty, and despite a set of positive measures that were adopted on the initiative and with the contribution of the CFP, the contrast to the pace and scope of the measures resulting from the approval of the budgets of the previous Parliament is still evident in the light of those resulting from this Budget. This is not a continuity budget or the best of budgets. As we said in the general debate, I beat us so that this is not the result and we expressed this struggle in the almost 300 proposals we have put forward. the income and rights of workers to increase retirement pensions, investment in public services to the hiring of missing workers, fair tax taxation to improve social benefits, support for children and young people to respond to housing problems, the replacement of VAT in energy to the right to mobility and transport, the dynamisation of the productive apparatus to defend the environment, the CFP did not leave any problem behind. We are fighting that the improvement of wages or the strengthening of public investment will not be sacrificed to the objective of a budget surplus. We are fighting for the refusal of the PS Government's options that hinder the pace and scope of progress achieved in recent years and add to the response to the country's structural problems. in a framework in which it did not weigh decisively for the approval of the Budget, the intervention of the CFP confirmed decisive for what positive the Budget saw introduced at the stage of the speciality. We note these advances achieved by the persistence and intervention of the CFP and by winning PS resistances, advances that, despite insufficient and limited, ensure that not only do we go back to everything that has been achieved in recent years, as in several areas, allow new steps of a positive sense that only a few stand out. For the fourth consecutive year, there will be an extraordinary increase in pension pensions of 10 euros, covering more than 2 million pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u239	The freeness of daycare will be realized in 2020 for families of the first step of family participation and for families of the second step from the second child, benefiting about 55,000 children and opening the way to ensure the freeness of daycare in the future. In health, it is recorded the creation of the National Laboratory of Medicine, with the aim of reducing the country's dependence on pharmaceutical multinationals, the elimination of moderate rates in primary health care, fulfilling what was already acquired with the recent Health Bases Act, as well as the commitment to hire workers for the SNS. In education, the consecration, from the next school year, of the delivery of new school textbooks, without refund, to all the children of 1. the cycle, consolidating the free process of school textbooks up to 12. the year, the reduction of the value of the tips for the degree, the extension of access to scholarships in school social action in higher education. In internal security, the admission commitment of 2500 effectives for security forces and services during this year is advanced, responding to the enormous deficiencies in PSP, GNR or SEF. In transport, there is a strengthening of funds in order to consolidate and expand the reduction in the price of social passes throughout the country, support for the modernization of the taxi sector, through the extension to hybrid cars of existing support for vehicles moved to diesel, the priority is stated to the expansion of the Metro to Loures and Alcântara network, moving forward with public investment in that direction.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u241	In energy, there is an extension to 2023 of the so-called regulated tariffs, benefiting the most one million consumers in this scheme, as well as those who, being outside the regulated tariff, are indirectly benefiting from it. All these measures are of undeniable importance for the concrete value they have for the lives of the Portuguese, but they also confirm the need to continue the struggle for the most advanced objective of achieving the patriotic and left political alternative. [[PCP applause.]] We will continue to be struck by all the measures we have brought here and have been refused, particularly in the area of energy VAT. The issue of energy VAT, particularly electricity, is revealing the need to continue this struggle. Portugal has electricity VAT at 23 % by decision of the PSD Government / CDS, which has executed the Troika assault pact, but also by option of the PS, which in the last 5 years has refused to reverse this measure of troika, doing exactly the opposite of what it proclaimed between 2011 and 2015. in this State budget, the CFP resubmitted its proposal for a 6 % VAT reduction and brought it to the vote twice so that the question would be resolved, unlike the PSD that removed its proposal before it could be approved. After having been missing for weeks to submit, amend and withdraw VAT proposals, the PSD has even announced in the debate this morning that it would vote in favour of the CFP proposal. We will not wait for that vote which has not arrived, because we know it will never come, much less if it is decisive. PSD never really intended to solve this problem. I just wanted to set up a performance, in which, moreover, it was also accompanied today by the CDS, as the two had already done about counting the time of service of the teachers, and, as they did this time, also now left the Portuguese hanged and deceived. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP reaffirms that there is no solution to the country's problems without a breach of right-wing policy. It is in patriotic and left-wing politics that resides the alternative that the country needs. It is in the strengthening of the CFP and its influence, and in the struggle of the workers and the people, that this path will be closer. The position of the PCP is not confused with those who seek to whiten the right-wing policy and their own responsibilities and encourage reactionary projects. It is a position that affirms the need for an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that meets the aspirations of the workers and the Portuguese people, able to ensure the conditions for a full development of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u242	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u243	It is for this purpose that the CFP will continue to beat, giving more strength to its first and main commitment, which is with the workers and the people. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u244	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u245	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen : from the first to the last minute of the preparation of this State budget, the Left Block pointed to the centrality of energy VAT in this debate. We knew it was for two reasons. Firstly, because in a budget which is incapable of real increases in wages and pensions for the generality of the population, the reduction in energy VAT became the only measure capable of increasing the available income of all families — the lowest bill of light means more wage and more pension at the end of the month. Specifically, it is €90 of annual savings for the average consumer. Secondly, because it has always been clear, even considering the electoral programmes of the various parties, that the reduction in energy VAT brings together a majority in this Parliament, but a majority that PS is not part of. It was therefore a political problem that had to be solved well, and that is what we told the Government and the country. The government did not or did not understand the importance of this debate. We still remember last year's measure of lower-power VAT, which created popular expectations later, so short, not more than a failure. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u246	Once again, the Government insisted on including in the budget proposal a declarative and without effect. It asked Brussels for authorisation for differentiated VAT rates, confident that this would not happen and without any commitment to the real impact on light bill. And, under this empty promise, the government has always refused to negotiate. The trench in which the Government and the Socialist Party stood against the negotiation of VAT is indeed a novelty. In 2012 the PS itself proposed in Parliament the fall in the VAT rate of energy, measured at the time of the fall by the PSD and the CDS. This is a new trench built of false arguments. Lowering VAT is not an environmental hazard, it is not socially unfair and does not cause any problem to public accounts. As has already been proven with the extension of the social energy tariff, electricity consumption does not increase because it became cheaper. No one duplicates the number of refrigerators at home because the bill of light has come down, but perhaps it connects the heater you need, and still well, because energy poverty kills. To pay VAT as a green tax, when this rate in the same way the electricity produced by renewables or coal, is just an absurd. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u247	The decline in electricity VAT is also not, as the Government says, socially unfair. Energy is an essential asset. The minimum rate in the light account is as socially unfair as the minimum rate in bread or water and there is no evidence that anyone wants to increase these rates because those who earn more also buy bread and water. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, the reduction of VAT is not a danger to public accounts, because it is more than affordable in the expected surplus and does not even question the surplus. It represents less each year than the unforeseen costs of the New Bank only last year, and the government has consumed them without a solution. Or didn't it? [[Congratulations from BE.]] The reduction in VAT has even a positive effect on the economy and public accounts: what is not spent on energy—being more paid and pension available—is spent on other necessary goods, which, by way of example, also pay for VAT. In fact, the trench against the fall in VAT on which the Socialist Party has joined has only one reason. It is the same that prevents a more determined investment in housing and energy efficiency and prevents the actual rise of wages and much of pensions: obsession with the budget surplus in the short term, an obsession that replaced any strategic proposal for the country and that prevents the Socialist Party from dialogue not only with the parties on its left but with the overwhelming majority of the population of this country, who lives with low wages and pensions and has no justice horizon here. The PS exchanged a political program with majority support on the left for the illusion of a blackmail game that would allow it to govern as if it had an absolute majority. He betted everything in cross-voted vows that were annulled, in which the positions of the parties were no more than hollow proclamations. The Left Block has always rejected this game and acted accordingly. We really want to see the measures we have tabled adopted. On the subject of negotiation, we have adapted our proposals to the point of convergence to which we have reached. No irresponsibility, no hidden game, no proclamation without real purpose. Well, I know that wasn't the whole budget story. And again, the « VAT crisis » is revealing: the NAP, which, less than a month ago, defended the fall in light VAT, passed the enemy of the fall in VAT in the last week of budgetary debate;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u248	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u249	... the PSD, which raised the VAT of energy to the maximum rate when it was a government and which only admitted to dropping it by cutting costs, finally recognized that this was not necessary ; and the Member did not register dropped the programme with which she was elected and embraced that of the Socialist Party. In the end, VAT did not fall. It was a missed opportunity and political irresponsibility. [[Congratulations from BE.]] When they look at the invoice and continue to see the tax rate at 23 %, Portuguese should know that this is due to two misdecisions in Parliament. It is due to the decision of the CDS — you can never use those two words that you have used in each sentence, which are the words "tax burden" — which today gave the PS to suck down the Block proposal and thus maintain the maximum VAT rate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is due to the decision of the CFP, which considered that, between waiting for October to have its own proposal in force or leaving everything as it is, it was better to leave everything as it is. The government was relieved, but not the electric bill. Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, all of which corresponds to more than €90 in the annual average consumer electricity bill. It was a wasted political opportunity and an enormous irresponsibility. The Left Block has always maintained a coherent position, although it opens up negotiation and convergence. We defend the reduction in the VAT rate of electricity to 6 % but offer the possibility of a phased down which would be more easily accommodated in the Budget. This path, through the intransigence of the PS, which we did not want to negotiate, we voted on all the proposals that allowed the fall of VAT by refusing any cuts to public services. Since the first day the government and the country knew it would. No novelty, no game, all transparency: fulfilling our mandate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, the debate on VAT in this Budget is an example of the difficulties of this Parliament. by refusing an agreement for the legislature, the Socialist Party did not abdicate only the mechanisms of understanding for such complicated and fundamental processes as a State Budget, abdicated from a mobilising horizon to the left and responding to the concrete expectations of the population. What's left is insufficient. This is the first budget of the legislature. The Left Block will maintain what it has said, abstention, and with it the feasibility of the overall final vote. We guarantee, during the vote on this Budget, the instruments for the realization of the new Health Bases Act, this essential step to save the National Health Service so that Arnaut and Semedo called us. More budget, more investment, more response where you have missed, from mental health to strengthening primary care, more path to the exclusivity of professionals and to the end of moderate rates. Perhaps this is the area with the most consequent answer of this Budget and which now demands all commitment to its realization. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We also guarantee measures to combat poverty, extend the CIS (a solidarity complement for the elderly) and strengthen support for children. The public school will have more employees, science more investment, university students more scholarships and less propensity and more housing support. People with disabilities will have more support, celluloses will be called to contribute to the forest, there will be increased transport. We also strengthened support for animal collection and sterilization centres, increased support for the local and regional press, and strengthened funding for the Lusa Agency, among other measures in the most diverse areas. We fought for every measure. We know they can make a difference. We also know that there is a lack of response to informal caregivers and shift workers and that culture remains forgotten, careers and pensions are not respected, the financial system continues to treat privileges and the tax system remains unfair. We know that the inadequacies we point out are political and procedural, because they go hand in hand. from here to a few months, we will be called to new strategic choices for the country and we will confront ourselves with a choice: repeat the mistakes of this Budget and the shortcomings of its policy and its process or have the courage needed to face the crises of our days, in housing, in work, in the climate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u251	I will finish, Mr. President. from the Left Block, we have what is needed: a strong mandate for the changes they count and a will as determined as always for all convergences that allow them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u252	For an intervention, Mr Rui Rio has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u253	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have had the opportunity to say in this plenary three months ago, « more than in your Programme, it is, above all, in the proposals for the State Budget that we will understand the reality and the options of government action » and « it will be in the budget of the State that will best take the path that this government will take ». So it is indeed. The State budget for 2020 seeks to fit into the virtual reality of a pink country that our day-to-day cannot be seen. This budget places on a path of continuity that embraces with particular affection the management of the environment and despises a reformist vision, able to make our economy grow and thus ensure, in the medium term, better living conditions for all Portuguese. It is a Budget which therefore does not have an underlying economic strategy; it has measures that seek to please here and there but does not have a concrete direction and objective on the horizon. It does not, in itself, put an end to a sound strategy of governance. In fact, this reality could not be very different in the face of the political-parliamentary situation that we continue to live on. There is no past paper marriage, but there is also no courage to consume the divorce between the parties. We live in a political-conjugal situation in which gossips and threats live with caring flashes of eyes and small snacks at the budget table. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, as expected, the debate in the specialty did not change in its structural substance anything very relevant to the original proposal of the Government. [[Good!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u254	Therefore, it continues not to correspond to what the PSD understands as necessary for the future of the country, as we have detailed here during the debate in general. We do not believe in the promise that public investment will be carried out by 2020 which has never been implemented so far. We are not mistaken about the ability to reorganise public services, even though the government suggests that everything will now get better. We know that by 2020 the Portuguese will pay even more taxes than they already paid in 2019, as well as the government, and in particular its Minister of Finance, torture numbers and semantics themselves. We also know that there are no measures capable of dynamizing savings and encouraging external competitiveness, in order to combat our high indebtedness to the outside world. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is not alone in criticism of this budget proposal. In addition to a reasonably widespread disgruntling of various sectors of Portuguese society, much of our criticisms have been confirmed and revalidated by various credible bodies and entities which, within their functions, have analysed the budget proposal for 2020. I refer to the Council of Public Finance, the UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ), the European Commission and the Eurogroup suspect, led by the Portuguese Finance Minister himself. [[PSD applause.]] It is precisely the Eurogroup and the European Commission that alert for the risks of failure to comply with Community rules, in particular with regard to medium-term budgetary consolidation objectives, warning for possible significant deviations in the adjustment of the structural balance. In order to address these risks, the President of the Eurogroup asks the Portuguese Minister of Finance to consider in due course the adoption of the additional measures necessary, i.e. Mário Centeno, in Brussels, doubt the effectiveness of Mário Centeno, in Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] UTAO, among other repairs, is very clear in saying that the concept of tax burden used by the government in the budget proposal does not correspond to that used by the National Institute of Statistics and by Brussels. Parliament's technicians have no doubt: if the same concepts are used, and I quote, « the increase in the tax burden in 2020 under the budget proposal appears to be even greater » ; it will not remain in 35, 1 % of GDP (gross domestic product) which the Government refers to, but rather in 35, 4 %, « the highest level of recent history », as stressed by UTAO. As you can see, the government can well fight Portuguese with puns around the tax burden that truth always comes to the top. The Council of Public Finance also shares the vision of the PSD, stating that the Government has gone mainly to the cycle of the environment, doing little more than taking advantage of the favourable economic cycle and monetary policy of the European Central Bank. Even if it refers to the surplus of 0, 2 % as a « progress in overall budgetary behaviour » — which the PSD also values —, that entity does not cease to point « an almost zero evolution of the primary structural balance ». But Mr President, the Council of Public Finance has not stayed here and has also referred to the mysterious case of the EUR 590 million now appearing, now disappearing from the frameworks of the Socialist Budget, in an unacceptable lack of transparency as we have been reporting. The Council says that the discretion of the government by using a budget balance that varies according to the page of the report we read is excessive, undesirable and has no legal framework. Educated words — contrasting, indeed, with the style of Minister Mário Centeno —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u255	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u256	... but certainly clear words as to the lack of budgetary transparency. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister of Finance is left to play his 'aus de tronfo', which is nothing less than saying that the others do not understand anything about this and that he knows about it. In fact, this fantastic argument may include the President of the Eurogroup himself, who, of course, did not cease to criticize. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] It is also curious, as Mr Prime Minister mentioned here, in this plenary, less than a month ago, that these EUR 590 million were of little importance, in view of the total volume of public expenditure, was a mere 0, 6 % of that expenditure. Well, that statement was made by the same Prime Minister who at the mouth of the European elections threatened with a theatrical resignation because of a statement which, in its dramatic accounts, reached EUR 600 million. [[PSD applause.]] It is also the same Prime Minister who, in recent days, has provided us with statements of melodramatic touch on the reduction of electricity VAT. Neither in one situation nor in the other is financial unsustainable, because in both cases the balance was guaranteed. [[PSD applause.]] But here it is important to realize that for the head of the Portuguese Government, 590 million is very little, but 600 million can already be so much that it deserves to be taken to the scene a piece in the way of « Grab me - but I resign myself». [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PS Santinho Pacheco.]] In the specific case of VAT, less than one third of the referenced EUR 590 million bagatela may be worse than the bagatela itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u257	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not for the major opposition party to present an alternative budget to that of the Government. It never happened, it would make no sense, nor does opposition have the means to do so. The presentation of the State budget is the prerogative and responsibility of governments. We are therefore aware that it is not up to us to present all the structural proposals that would result from the application of our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u259	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u260	Such a procedure would not be correct. But, if that is true, it also does not leave it to present some proposals which, in the light of our understanding, can improve objectives that we consider strategically relevant. At the head of our concern is, of course, the reduction in the tax burden, insofar as the budget design allows it, because in no case will the PSD undermine the balance achieved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u261	This is the mark of our proposals, contrary to what the Government has said, with its delirious accounts and its very little careful speech. As part of the reduction in the tax burden, this debate marked our proposal to reduce electricity VAT from 23 % to 6 %, exclusively for domestic consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u262	Trambikers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u263	of the various tax reductions we anticipated in our program was that which we emblematically chose to accommodate in a budget that is not ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u264	Forgery!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u265	As sensitive to the parliamentary debate, we adjusted the proposal of a mold to meet the reservations that the other parties were putting, believing that they were all speaking without mask and good faith.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u266	Fascinating!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u267	We postponed the entry into force of the reduction of the tax by 1 October and focused our contribution exclusively on the excessive expenditure of the ministerial offices and the adjustment of the budgetary surplus to a strictly 0, 2 % of GDP. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u268	Pantomineiros!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u269	Nor did the proposal deserve the approval of the PS and the Government, a sensible proposal that enabled the Government to comply with what it promised in the letter which it sent to Brussels and to the PS and to be consistent with the draft resolution presented herein 2013, with the signature of its current Secretary of State for Energy. It also allowed — and now will start the noise — the PCP does not serve as a mule,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u270	We don't call you anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u271	Didn't I? Oh, my God! This proposal also made it possible for the CFP not to serve as a mule, helping a government that was already walking in this area with considerable difficulty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u272	A PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u273	A piece of shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u274	Listen there, Mr. Deputies. A PCP that says you want to lower the VAT if it's already, because if it's only from October you'd rather it never come down. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] For the communists...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u275	We voted for the proposals, but you did not agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u276	I repeat, for the communists, who so much like to speak in our people, what this people often say, in these circumstances, is that if this has any logic, « then I will go there and come now». [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u277	Go over there, but don't come back!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u278	The country had never seen the PCP contradict itself in such a clumsy way and so distastefully helpful to the socialists. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u279	You were cowards, you didn't want to vote for the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u280	The PS, the PCP — and, say, in favour of truth and with frontality — and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u281	You know what the truth is there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u282	As I said, the PS, the PCP and the CDS come out of this debate with the VAT of electricity at the maximum step, as they have always wanted, but they inevitably come out of a low head in front of what they have been saying and promising. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for these episodes and for all the reasons reaffirmed here during the debate, the PSD will vote against the proposal for a State budget for 2020, in full conviction that more could be done and, above all, much better, by Portugal and the Portuguese. [[PSD applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u283	This is the applause with the love of 78 ash! 78 ass to applaud! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u284	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for some silence so that we can continue the work. Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rui Rio : In time this Parliament will vote for a budget which will remain in history for a number of reasons. [[For the worst!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u286	It will remain in history because it consolidates the balance between good accounts and the deepening of the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It will remain in history because, having been proposed by a minority government, it has arrived in this Parliament in open format, available to receive contributions that, by not misusing it, would enrich it and strengthen it. And yes, Mrs Catarina Martins, here we have been, with responsibility, with loyalty, dialogue with all the political forces, that the Left Block has not been exempt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, despite some attempts, which, we have no doubt, have compromised the balance that characterizes it, the fact is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has greatly contributed to the adoption of today's proposal, which was already good, to leave here very good, with all its approved proposals. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not we want an Budget to translate into numbers the choices and views we want for the country. This is reflected in the document we will vote in minutes: it reflects the choices that the Government has made, in order to deepen and extend the social state, with the necessary balance of public accounts; it reflects the defence of a more just and more supportive society, which believes that only investment in people is the guarantor of economic growth and social cohesion. It is a Budget that implements the projects for improving the lives of people, especially the most vulnerable, and these are arguments to affirm that, yes, this is the Budget that mirrors the priorities of the Government, which are the priorities of the Socialist Party, but most importantly, are the priorities of the majority of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The road is walking and this is the first Budget of the rest of this legislature. It is an important budget, because it indicates the direction we want, the directions to follow and, somehow, anticipates the battles that, in this House and outside it, will be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, some 1300 amendments have been tabled to the budget proposal sent by the Government to this Parliament, which alone demonstrates the energy and vitality of this House. The Parliamentary Group, I reaffirm, has always been available for dialogue and negotiation with all parties in this House. So we made the necessary bridges whenever we thought we were not misdirecting our project and felt that this Budget is the result of everyone's work and is also the Budget of this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would say, if I may, that although we have reached a document that satisfies us, it was not with little perplexity that we attended the proposals which, in the field of specialty, here and there, have arrived, some of the absolute irresponsibility, popular, perhaps, many touching populism, it is true, but capable of destroying, in an instant, the path of financial stability and of social and economic development that we started four years ago. Our perplexity increases when these proposals come to us by parties that have already had government responsibilities and who know how difficult it is to find the point of balance. The choice of the path of demagogic and tactical is bad in all party forces and is particularly serious when presented by the greater party of opposition, who is required as much responsibility as the one who governs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the proposal to reduce the rate of VAT in electricity is an example of the irresponsibility of the PSD. This episode is a play with three acts. First act: reduction of the electricity VAT rate. Second act: reduction of the electricity VAT rate only with the approval of counterparties. Third act : fallacy and achievement. They do not say so and, after all, even without counterpart, they threaten to follow the proposals of other banks. In the end, they follow one of the proposals and leave the scene at the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u287	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u288	We are clear about the PSD's will in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u289	Upstairs, they were very happy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u290	But it is important to point out that some left has ended up giving in to temptation and there it has been running, in a way of bail, behind this absurd proposal, forgetting the contribution it has made to a more balanced, fairer Portugal and to certain accounts over the past four years. We're sure we'll re-negotiate on this base. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not ignore the case of irresponsibility in voting to suspend the works of the subway, an ongoing work whose suspension means the loss of Community funds, any compensation to contractors and, of course, the damage of the users, of the many users, who will benefit in the very near future from this circular line. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u291	The users will be able to ride a wagon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u292	This is a decision that the opposition, in a group, has decided and that — it is good to say — reads, supermania, the Portuguese,... [[PSD protests.]] ... not only for the money that, in practice, is thrown out, but also for not contributing, as is our duty, to the quality of life of all those who use the public transport of Great Lisbon and for environmental sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And that responsibility is yours and only yours, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! in this regard, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group was not able to yield in any way, and therefore it will give rise to the supervision of the constitutionality of this norm, by everything it represents. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We recall that the commitment we made to the PS Parliamentary Group was not to let go, but to strengthen the State budget. Our opposition to these standards is a good demonstration of how we are being beaten so that the State Budget is not disavowed. Our contribution is, firstly, reflected in the adoption of measures that reinforce housing policies, in response to those most in need, but also to a middle class that desperately seeks to be able to live in the city centers. This will be the Parliamentary Group of the Watch Socialist Party on the implementation of the measures it has put forward in this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We strengthened the State budget, when we improved the rule of solidarity for the elderly, thus assuming the eradication of the poverty of the elderly until the end of the legislature. We have strengthened the State budget, when we have responded to the problems of the younger, which are an example of failure to take account of the employment incomes of dependents in household aggregates and the extension of the transition to vocational education students. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I am very grateful for the serious, committed and rigorous way in which they were in this debate. More than the government — which, of course, we support — we have been, at every moment of the debate, alongside the Portuguese and have tried, although often with difficulty, to create bridges and reach understanding. We have this idea of politics that it is necessary, for the sake of the public case, to mitigate what separates us and to highlight what is very close to us. We all have a lot of work ahead of us, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will always be available to work on platforms of understanding with all the parties with parliamentary seats, in the present, as in the past and certainly in the future. The Socialist Party is halting the struggle for equal opportunities, for the defence of the social state and for economic growth. This is a historical budget, because it is a proper budget. This is a historical budget, because it increases the social support they need most: of the elderly most vulnerable to young people starting a working life. This is a historical budget, because it reinforces the National Health Service without precedent. This is a historical budget, because, in this House, with dialogue with all democratic forces, we have achieved a better budget for the country. This is a historical budget, because it lowers corporate taxes and places on economic growth. This is the Budget resulting from responsibility and loyalty to all, but it is, above all, the commitment we have to the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u293	To close the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of State and Finance, Mr. Mário Centeno.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u294	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear colleagues of government, Mr. Members: There seems to be no fame without drama. This State budget has won its place in budgetary history in Portugal, but not for the sad reasons that the opposition wanted to print to them. We are voting today on the first budget of the state of this legislature. We have managed to build the conditions for Portugal today to be among the best in Europe over the past few years. We are among the best destinations for foreign direct investment in Europe. According to the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), Portugal is the second country with lower regulatory restrictions on foreign direct investment among its members. This investment corresponded to 2, 5 % of GDP ( gross domestic product) in 2018, when the European Union average was 1, 9 %. We are among the best countries to live and among the safest countries in Europe. We are also among the best in Europe in the consolidation of the structural budget and in the sustained reduction of public debt. We are among the best in the results in education. According to the latest PISA (International Student Evaluation Program), only seven of the 79 educational systems analyzed have seen significant improvements in the performance of their students in reading, mathematics and science, throughout their participation in this OECD study, and Portugal is one of these seven countries. Our students have results above the OECD average and some countries considered to be reference, such as Germany. Our students are very happy! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are among the most successful countries in reducing poverty and inequality. In 2015, we were behind the European average at the rate of population living at risk of poverty or social exclusion. In 2018, in only three years, we had already reduced that rate by 5 percentage points to 21, 6 %, and had even reached the European Union average. We have moved faster and we have even passed our partners in an indicator that, we have no doubt, we must continue to improve. We are among the countries that have reduced inequality the most. Inequality in Portugal fell 16 %, according to official data. Today we are close to the average level of the European Union. Portugal grows. Portugal better distributes the result of this growth. We are a more inclusive country, which we also owe, and much, to pride. We have an increasingly investment-friendly tax regime, because it is stable and sustainable. We have implemented a set of tax incentives for companies: the deduction of retained and reinvested profits; the conventional remuneration of social capital; the Investment Support Tax Scheme; the investment tax contract; the end of the obligation of the special payment on account; and the elimination of the minimum collection in simplified IRC. In the 2020 budget, incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises ( small and medium-sized enterprises ) are again enshrined in the IRC budget, companies operating in territories within and for businesses re-investing their profits. The 2020 State Budget also promotes a strong stimulus to economic growth, while maintaining, as essential values, simplification and stability in the predictability of the tax system. We are one of the countries that has reduced the weight of direct taxes on families. Between 2015 and 2018, this value as a percentage of GDP was reduced by 6 tenths, minus EUR 1000 million of IRS paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This makes us one of the euro area countries that has reduced the weight of direct taxes the most. According to the European Commission's 2020 questionnaire on fiscal policies in the European Union, Portugal was the country of the European Union which reduced the most effective marginal rate on corporate income between 1998 and 2018 : around 40 %. Our interest rates are today the lowest among the countries of southern Europe. This reduction corresponds to an annual savings of EUR 2000 million in interest, an amount equivalent to an increase in SNS expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But also the interest rates paid by companies are lower and are closer, much closer, to those practised in other European countries. The interest rate differential paid by non-financial corporations in Portugal and the euro area was virtually crushed over the last four years : it increased from 2 percentage points in 2015 to around 0, 5 percentage points in 2019. There is no better news for the competitiveness of Portuguese companies than for the reduction and convergence of their financing costs with their European competitors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All of this had an extraordinary translation in the business activity and in its success in the markets. The market share of Portuguese companies'exports was the largest among all the medium-sized economies in Europe. I would like to ask all of you. Members who paid fair tribute to entrepreneurs and workers who made all this possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They have done so with effort, Mr President, but with dedication and confidence. With risks, but also with certainty: they all worked for the future. The market share of our exports has increased since 2015 by more than 6 percentage points than world demand. It is four times higher than the OECD average. In Germany, for example, this same market share fell 4 percentage points; in France and Italy it fell 3 percentage points. At its size, Portuguese companies are occupying the space that was formerly occupied by companies from other countries. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Since 2016, we have not only won the European Football Championship and the Eurovision Festival; we have also won the European Exports Championship and we have proven to all those who did not believe that there were alternatives! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, Portugal and the Portuguese are better and are among the best. Today, Portugal has once again had a prosperous and sustainable future for all. We made difficult decisions and even, at those times, controversial decisions, but it was these decisions that laid the groundwork for Portugal to regain confidence and credibility. And here I cannot but mention the importance of the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box outside the context of State aid and the sale of the New Bank. These are difficult themes, in which much of this House at the time did not believe. The CGD ( General Deposit Box ) began to have a stronger governance, capital to finance the Portuguese economy, a clearly defined strategy and mission. Today, the General Deposit Box finances the economy and delivery of dividends to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a good investment in economic growth, value creation and employment. It was a good investment in Portugal and Portugal. But the sale of the New Bank also played a key role in the stabilization of the financial system. The sale was made by the Resolution Fund with clear conditions and which will be met by all. We cannot, nor should we, leave the demands aside, and Parliament's participation in this process is not only welcome as essential for the scrutiny that this process must have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These were absolutely essential solutions for reducing our interest rates. This is the result of a country with financial, economic, social and political stability, increasingly scarce and more important results in Europe. But the external challenges Portugal faces today are not different from those of the last few years and have put, and put, a huge internal challenge. Portugal has overcome these challenges and I am fully convinced that it will continue to overcome them, but in societies, as in our lives, there is no definitive challenge. We need to do just what we can and know to preserve it. The achievements are, unfortunately, increasingly ephemeral than the losses. Portugal will not tire of fulfilling. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The terrible experience of the global financial crisis, which emerged in the context of the great global recession, dragged the sovereign debt crisis, which, in Portugal, marked a period of recent history in the form of the Adjustment Programme. Today, we have an obligation to the Portuguese: we will not take any greater steps than the leg. But over these years, as I described at the beginning of this intervention, the leg has become longer and so also the step. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal has grown 23 consecutive quarters — 23! — and will continue to grow, because we do it in a sustainable way. This is what measures the steps we take. Portugal, today, invests more and better; Portugal, today, grows more and better. Yes, this is the best budget in recent years! This obligation implies that we cannot approve budgetary measures whose financial impacts we do not know about. A Budget is a document of responsibility, it is not a list of wishes and much less a petition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic is the portrait of the country and, to be up to that function, always owes the Portuguese an explanation. This has been what we have done since 2015, in which, year after year, we have achieved goals and we have achieved the credibility of the economic policy that was very lacking in Portugal. And we always explain to the Portuguese. Unfortunately, I risk to estimate that more than 90 % of the more than 3,500 votes made in the last three days did not make such an assessment. To expose the Portuguese to such risks is not compatible with the responsibility that we want to convey here and that we assume, as a whole government, and not only circumstantially, depending on the interests of the moment or even the next weekend. Nothing's guaranteed. To think otherwise was what brought us to the tragic period of the Adjustment Program. [[PSD protests.]] After 30 years of deficits... [[Continued PSD protests.]] They won't drag us into those periods...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u295	Mr. Minister, continue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u296	After 30 years of deficits, which were on average over 5 %, we ended with a debt of more than 130 % of GDP in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We were then in 2015 on the sad podium of the world's largest public debt. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] in the last few days, opposition arch parties have functioned as follows: until 24 hours on Tuesday, they have voted to distribute money to all that was put to the vote. Some of the new parties have shown that they are not « more than the same », they are only « less than the same ». [[P.S.'s applause.]] The other parties didn't make a mistake either. They did only one and the same thing: without proposing to eliminate one of the existing expenses, so that we could understand what they thought...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u297	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u298	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u299	... have proposed hundreds of new spending measures. Debt, only debt and more debt! When we entered the tax office, they all changed from heteronym, in order to eliminate the revenue they could pay for what they wanted to have approved at the expense. This would mean literally sending the others to pay — the younger ones, those who will work from here to a few years — the debt we would now commit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If all that was proposed in the specialty — the nearly 1300 amendments — were approved, there would be no financing, only a budget gap. The budgetary debate in Parliament, in the press, in the houses of the Portuguese—and I say this with some doubts— unfortunately, about a single issue, which was most present in this forum today: the reduction of VAT on energy. The issue of changing taxation in energy consumption was neither in the Electoral Programme nor in the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u300	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u301	The Government's proposal therefore responded to a debate in which, in good faith, the Government approached the concerns raised by the various parties. But he did so by putting this approach into the Government Programme, in particular within the framework of budgetary responsibility, climate action and social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u302	What about IRS Young? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u303	We cannot sell unfair measures, it is not the immediacy that builds up the future of a country. It is good to remember that a cross-sectional reduction in VAT benefits, above all, those with higher income and stimulates energy consumption, with a negative environmental impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u304	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u305	The extent to which the Government intends to draw, from the legislative authorisation which has been approved, is not a measure aimed at reducing energy consumption costs. This is done by reducing the rate and the social rate. The Government's measure has environmental concerns within a new generation of European policies within the New Green Pact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To be responsible, reducing the cost of energy is a priority that we pursue in a sustainable way, reducing the tariff deficit and promoting competition for new renewable energies, which allowed us, for example, to obtain, in 2019, the world record of the lowest price megawatt / hour in solar energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The negative impact of the Government's proposal on VAT on public accounts when this proposal is applied will be much lower than the radical measure proposed by the PSD, because budgetary responsibility always guides the action of the government, not the opposition. In short, the Government intends to reduce VAT, knowing that the details of implementation will be conditional on budgetary availability and on the environmental dimension. I would like to remind you here that, in general European countries, energy is subject to the normal VAT rate for budgetary and environmental reasons. If it were as easy as the 'uncertain accounts' with which the opposition leader yesterday offered the country, in the rest of Europe this would have been done, they would not be waiting for Dr. Rui Rio to do the math. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Don't keep fooling the Portuguese! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u306	Look at the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Much has been said about the quality of the budgetary procedure. But what quality can you have in the last two hours of submission have entered more than 600 proposals, most of which have never been discussed during the ten hours of budgetary debate, much less evaluated and quantified? [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Few were even referred to, except for their number, and on average they would have 20 seconds of attention before they were voted. [[PSD and BE protests.]] What quality can the budget process have if... [[Continued PSD and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u308	Mr. Minister, I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u309	Mrs. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the period for discussion of the proposals has already ended! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u310	Please finish, Minister. By the way, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u311	I will finish, and I will continue now, Mr President. We have now had a small sample of what the parliamentary debate is. I'll go on then. What quality can the budgetary process have if, in the course of a debate in plenary, the leader of the major opposition party presents a new proposal outside the plenary? On the side of the plenary. Was it not to be debated? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u312	And when they negotiated with the NAP at 11 o'clock in the evening? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u313	It is a proposal that exposes budgetary irresponsibility, which aims to help the Portuguese. Today, it looks like it's off the table, but tomorrow whoever's here is paying. Compensation is reduced to nothing, only to see if the proposal is approved, that someone then compensates. Quoting Fernando Rocha Andrade,... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u314	... is this « the farce and tragedy in the budget debate ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u315	And the negotiations with the NAP at 11 o'clock in the evening, Minister? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u316	Some want to pay everything — pensions, safety, health — but deny sources of funding. They don't even know what money we'd pay for that. They voted in favour of everything that increased the debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u317	You guys had Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u318	...but they will cry out against the famous tax burden. Others, they don't want to pay anything, except what they want to pay. And they don't want to charge anything, except what they're willing to charge. They have many initiatives, but they are not new. We can say that the majority party of the opposition tried to create a « gerancoise ». « Something in the form of this», paraphrasing Alexandre O’ Neil. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We must remember that a budget is a balance between different political positions, between revenue and expenditure, between debt and courage.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u319	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u320	And you can only achieve that balance if there is a real negotiation. There were measures adopted in the State budget which merited zero seconds of debate. And it wasn't the one that was presented in the Lost Steps, of so lost that I was.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u321	And the one that was negotiated with the NAP at 11 o'clock in the evening? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u322	No, this is not politics. No, this isn't serious. Actually, it's nothing, it's just millions of euros of nothing. The Government will honour the measures with budgetary impact which have been approved — and were tens of millions of euros, in measures always supported by the PSD — during the speciality vote. But what coherence do these measures have? None. They're vulvacious. They're torn apart. There have even been measures that were explicitly financed at the expense of the surplus. It was more or less a kind of « dress the dog with its own hair », but they used the same euro several times. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Surveys are worth what they're worth, it's always what they say. But the truth is they translate reality. This week we learned that the overwhelming majority of Portuguese defend the budget surplus. It is good to know that the Portuguese have a responsible view, which, unfortunately, does not sit in all seats in this House. We all know that a Budget, and especially that of the State, is always the result of multiple wishes. It is so within each ministry, it is so within the government and, therefore, it is within a country that lives in democracy. That is why — but that is why — this is the best budget for the last five years after the speciality vote. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policy is reinvented. It is done with responsibility. And it happens. But it happens when it has results. That was four years ago. When we lowered the limits of the alleged arc of governance, we finally opened the Assembly of the Republic to the true dimension of the country. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] Even today, the Constitution, the Law, the Law, the Law, the Eloquence, the Justice and the Diplomacy, which watch for the work of this Chamber, remember the more or less dramatic and choleric words, sometimes which we heard from the right side of the Hemicycle. It was the flight of capital, it was the new lack of funding, it was what was, after all, arithmetically impossible. Do you know why all this has been said? Because I've never been tempted before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The abacus of some economists who have made accounts in recent years has, after all, lost some of the poles with which it was originally invented in Mesopotamia, and the accounts never beat them certain. Actually, they've never been right before. However, we had to reach 2016. What we did didn't involve experimentalisms. We have always been equipped with all the necessary information and the best analysis we had available and have always acted with many cautions. Cautions of those who have to decide about the money of others. No one announced that he would go beyond himself or others. No one has ever fled to explain, to give information and to seek, in an insistent manner, and always in the House of Democracy, the financial stability of the country. Today, we can confirm that the balance of the State budget has been, this year, consecrated and has come to remain, to tell the younger: "We are investing in your future, in your freedom of decision. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] We can't satisfy all our ambitions in one day. No one in democracy has that right. Since there are no cars without brakes, there are no budgets without captivating. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u323	There are those who do not know how to block and end up cutting the right—in fact, on the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Or Socrates! Or Socrates!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u324	And there are those who don't know how to captivate and end up wasting their fats that they want to burn. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We govern in the name of stability and social inclusion, without opposition between young and less young, without opposition between public sector workers and private sector workers. We govern on behalf of sustainability, whether budgetary, financial or climate. I finish as the poet began, more than 45 years ago,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u325	... and as it still sings today, in the most Portuguese of the songs: « I live life as before / I have no less or more / And the days pass the same / to the days that go away». This State budget is a tribute to the days that go far because, as we said when we came out of the excessive deficit procedure: "We are not going back! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] We owe that to the Portuguese. This State budget places on the demographic challenge, the digital and climate transition, the fight against inequalities. Do it with responsibility, because it is this Budget that we now return to the Portuguese, to those who build this country seriously, who do not live above the possibilities, who promote the security and growth of the country where they chose to make their lives. This budget is the best of the last few years, because, today, Portugal is also the best of the last few years. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u326	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we thus conclude the debate on the Lein 4, 5 and 6 / XIV / 1. a. The voting period is followed and I therefore ask the services to prepare the electronic register for quorum purposes. [[Pause.]] According to the information that the Bureau has only 2 Members, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD, and Mr João Dias, of the CFP, have not been able to register, although both are present. As 230 Members are present, we have a quorum to vote. We begin with the overall final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance on the Proposal for a Law No 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the Bill No 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] [[PS applause, stand up.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budget and Finance, on the Proposal for a Law No 6 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the multiannual budget programming framework for the years 2020 - 2023. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted.]] Before I say goodbye to the Prime Minister and to the other members of the Government present, wishing them a rest of the afternoon, I would like to say the following: Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : having completed the most relevant part of the budgetary procedure, with the overall final approval of the three bills, I intend to refer publicly to the work carried out by the services of the Assembly of the Republic, without which it would not have been possible to ensure compliance with the timetable which has been established. [[General applause.]] The services also have a long and demanding work in front of them until the final writing is posted, scheduled for 24 February. The commitment of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, in the first line of its President Filipe Neto Brandão, had the opportunity to follow up the Commission's work until late in the morning - and all the services involved, ensuring that the budgetary procedure could proceed without any inconvenience, is worthy of my recognition, and I am sure, of the whole Bureau and the whole House. Thank you very much. [[General applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a period of regular voting. First, we have to vote vote on vote No 160 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD members ) — Despite the death of Paulo Gonçalves. I would ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u327	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last January 12th the Portuguese motorcycle pilot Paulo Gonçalves, accident victim on 42nd. the edition of the Rali Dakar of all-o-terreno, in Saudi Arabia. Paulo Gonçalves, born on February 5, 1979, was natural of Esponende and from early on revealed interest and fitness for motor sports, having become a professional pilot at the age of 17. With an expressive sports career, and after obtaining national titles on the motocrosse and the supercrosse, Paulo Gonçalves sacred - world champion of ralis from all-o-terreno in 2013 and achieved the second place in Dakar 2015, belonging to the restricted lot of drivers who competed on the three continents — Africa, South America and Asia. Internationally recognized by his comradeship, always ready to help colleagues in difficulties, Paulo Gonçalves was distinguished with several fair-play awards, that the Ethics Prize in Sport, which was awarded to him in 2016 by the Portuguese Institute of Sport and Youth. With his death, national sport becomes poorer, but his legacy, as an athlete and a human being, will remain as a reference in the annals of Portuguese motorcyclism. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Paulo Gonçalves, addressing family, friends, colleagues and collaborators as well as the Federation of Motorcyclism of Portugal, his most sincere condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u328	Thank you very much, Secretary. Several members of the Federation of Motorcyclism of Portugal are present in the galleries, to whom I also wanted to say that we all feel strongly the disappearance of Paulo Gonçalves, proposing that his name be ovated. [[General applause, stand up.]] The following vote No 165 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — I regret the death of General José Lemos Ferreira, who will also be read by Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u329	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic became aware of the death of General José Lemos Ferreira, who left us last January 22, 2020. Born in Portalegre, on June 23, 1929, he entered the aircraft course in 1948, attended a pilot course in the United States and performed functions at the Monte Real and Montijo Air Bases. He was also later mobilized for the then called Portuguese India in 1969, and a decade later he was in Guinea Bissau, in 1971, already during the colonial war. In 1977, he took up the role of Chief of the Air Force Staff, where he created and built a real revolution in the institution, adapting it and preparing it for the new challenges of the 21st century. Later, in 1984, he served as Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces, who served for five years until 1989. Recalled by his strong leadership and strong institutional and charismatic stance, but also by his innovative and courageous vision, General José Lemos Ferreira was several times thanked by the Portuguese State, particularly with the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Christ, with the Great Cruz of the Military Order of Avis, with the Silver Medal of Military Value with Palma and also with the Great Cruz of the Military Order of the Tower and Sword of Value, Loyalty and Merit. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the death of the illustrious citizen, the exemplary military and thinker, and addresses the family, the friends and comrades of General José Lemos Ferreira, the most significant regret over his disappearance. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u330	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I recently ended up not voting on vote No 160 / XIV / 1. the, although approved by acclamation. Let us therefore vote vote No 160 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PAR and subscribed by PS and PSD members ) — Despite the death of Paulo Gonçalves. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will then vote on vote No 165 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by PS ) — Regrets for the death of General José Lemos Ferreira. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We passed to Vote No 167 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Antonio Gervásio, who will be read by Mr João Oliveira. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António Gervásio, agricultural worker, prominent anti-fascist fighter and anti-fascist, Member of the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic, militant and communist leader, died on 10 January at 92 years of age. Born in São Mateus, Montemor-o-Novo, since very early participated and led several struggles, including strikes in the harvests, against unemployment, for better days. In 1945, at 18 years of age, he joined the PCP, having gone underground in 1952. Participated in the direction of the historic and victorious struggle that led to the 8-hour hours of work by the South agricultural proletariat in 1962. He was arrested three times in 1947, 1960 and 1971. Together, he spent five and a half years in the fascist prisons of Aljube, Caxias and Peniche. He was brutally tortured in prisons in 1960 and 1971, with beatings up to the loss of senses and subjecting to sleep torture, being prevented from sleeping for 18 nights and 18 days in a row, about 400 hours. In the trial of May 1961, he was beaten in the full Court of Good Time for denouncing the tortures of the PIDE. He participated in the famous escape of Caxias in the armored car of Salazar, in December 1961, with seven more communist militants, immediately resumed the party activity in the clandestine. In April 1974, he was imprisoned in Forte de Peniche, being one of the political prisoners released in the morning of April 27. António Gervásio was a direct and tireless participant in the entire process of agrarian reform in the South, in the liquidation of the latifundium, in the constitution of collective units of production and in the fight without hindrance in its defense. Emphasized communist leader, he left valuable testimonies of his rich experience of life and struggle, contributing to the preservation of memory of what fascism was and how the PCP faced repression and constituted itself as the party of the working class and of all workers and the leading force of antifascist opposition. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Gervásio and addresses its condolences to its relatives and to the CFP. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Then we have to vote vote No 168 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PCP and subscribed by PS deputies ) — Despite the death of Henrique Espírito Santo, that Ms. Secretary Ana Mesquita will do the favor of reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Born in Queluz, in 1931, Henrique Espírito Santo died last January 19. In an undisturbed figure of Portuguese cinema, he started his professional activity in 1966, debuting as production director in 1971, in the film O Recado, feature film by José Fonseca and Costa. He was director of production of the film The Promise, by António Macedo, the first Portuguese film to be selected for the Cannes Film Festival, and the Bobo, by José Álvaro Morais, the first Portuguese film awarded at the Locarno Film Festival. Henrique Espírito Santo was director of production of 27 films, actor in 21, having collaborated or participated in various ways, in at least 19 more. In addition to the directors already mentioned, he produced films by Antonio da Cunha Telles, Alberto Seixas Santos, Manoel de Oliveira, Luís Filipe Rocha, Margarida Gil, Solveig Nordlund, João Mário Grilo or João César Monteiro. She had a lifetime dedicated to cinema, recognized with the Sophia Prize, awarded by the Portuguese Academy of Cinema in 2014 and with the publication of a catalogue on her film life by the Portuguese Film Library in 2016. It was also highlighted by its participation in the film-making movement, described by itself as ‘great cultural movement of masses of resistance to fascism’, by its role in the new Portuguese cinema, by the contribution to the dignity, valorization and dissemination of Portuguese cinema. Henrique Espírito Santo formed several generations of men and women of cinema and was an extraordinary example of love for this art, dedication, capacity for work and, at the same time, of generosity, solidarity and fraternity by all recognized. Member of the Portuguese Communist Party from May 1957 to the end of his life, he participated actively in the resistance and fight against fascism, culturally and politically. The Assembly of the Republic, gathered in plenary, expresses its sorrow for the death of Henrique Espírito Santo and sends his relatives and friends feeling condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u334	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 169 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by PSD and subscribed by PS Members ) — Despite the death of Daniel of Cunha Dias. Mrs. Helga Correia will do the favor of reading this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Proudly natural of Tavira, Daniel da Cunha Dias died last January 20th. Entrepreneur, fervorous Democrat, who accompanied General Humberto Delgado's campaign, highlighted his remarkable civic and political commitment, marked by the founding of the PPD in the Algarve and, later, by his performance in the first and second legislatures as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. It also recorded significant local involvement, has performed multiple functions and has also been a member of the RTP Information Council. The Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to it and addresses its sorrow to the family for this loss. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u336	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The last regret vote is Vote No 155 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the NAP and signed by PS Members ) — Despite the loss of human lives, animals and forest species in the fires that occur in Australia and the lack of political action to combat climate change. I do not know whether we need to read the vote or whether we can vote it immediately. Mr. André Silva, can we vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u337	We want the vote to be read, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u338	I would therefore ask Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u339	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "For four months the tragedy has devastated the Australian territory with the deflagration of forest fires resulting from the high temperatures that have occurred and still make it feel. At least 24 people lost their lives this September 2019 following these fires and are estimated to have died at least half a million animals, including colas and cangurus. The local flora also suffered irremediable losses, and it is estimated that some species may be irremediably lost. We must deeply regret the loss of lives in these fires, but we must also express indignation at the lack of political action, not only in the fight against fires, in the support of firefighters, but mainly in the recognition and negationist view of the Australian Prime Minister regarding the origin of this phenomenon: climate change. Three of the Australian states recorded temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius and several villages that had never been threatened by forest fires are now in danger of being totally destroyed, something that had never been experienced in this country. The size and duration of this tragedy and the high temperatures recorded in Australia coincide with the estimates made by scientists for the risk of forest fires on a warmer planet due to climate change. This is the origin of these fires. In the face of another grave manifestation of the climate crisis in which we also live in Portugal, we must, as elected and elected, undertake to reduce our ecological footprint and adopt sustainable behaviors with a view to the well-being of all the species that inhabit our planet and to be serious and active in adapting our country to climate change. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of all people, of all animals and destruction of ecosystems in the forest fires in Australia, and also expresses its solidarity with all the other victims of these fires. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u340	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u341	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u342	Mr President, in the midst of a vote there is no question of an appeal to the Bureau. [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH, IL, 17 PS Members (Alexandra Moura, Edite Estrela, Filipe Neto Brandão, Francisco Oliveira, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Oneto, Isabel Rodrigues, João Nicolau, Joaquina Matos, Jorge Gomes, Jorge Lacão, Lúcia Araújo Silva, Luís Moreira Testa, Paulo Duarte Marques, Paulo Pisco, Pedro Cegonho and Pedro do Carmo) and 4 PSD (Cristóvão Norte, Duarte Pacheco, João Moura and Rui Cristina).]] Well, it seemed to me that this vote shouldn't have been read... [[Of course!]] [[Of course!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u343	But there was a precedent. And it was the members of the NAP who demanded the reading of the vote, of which I had no knowledge before. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to prolong this incident any longer, we will keep a minute's silence regarding the regrets that have been read and the part that concerns the loss of human lives in Australia constant of the vote of the NAP. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u344	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u345	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u346	Mr President, that is to say that on this vote of the PAN, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u347	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u348	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Jorge Gomes and Mr Pedro do Carmo, we will also present a statement of vote on the vote on the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u349	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Marcos Perestrello has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u350	Mr President, we can call you what we want, but the vote on the NAP was not a vote of regret. And joining him to the other vows was a lack of respect for the personalities whose death we mourned here. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, CH, IL and PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u351	Mr President, the vote has already been voted on, and the vote has been voted on. Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u352	Mr President, it is to say that, on my behalf, Mrs Isabel Oneto and Mr Jorge Lacão will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote. And I also wanted to say that this last vote of the PAN is not a vote of regret.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u353	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u354	Mr. President, in defence of honor, in the face of what has been said, I mean that the vote of the NAP is a vote of regret... [[Protests of PS, PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] ...and we have the right to feel embarrassed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u355	Mrs. Member, I didn't give you the floor...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u356	It's not a disrespect, but we have the right to feel embarrassed...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u357	You don't have the floor at the moment. In the meantime, I would like to say that Mr Pisco has recently informed the Bureau that he will present a statement of vote on the proposal for a State budget law. Isn't that right, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u358	Exactly, Mr. President. I would like to announce that I will make a statement of vote on the proposals that have been submitted and discussed in the specialty, in particular proposals 1175 - C, submitted by the CFP, and 299 - C submitted by BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u359	Be registered. We still have a number of votes to make. Let's, then, continue...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u360	Mr President, can you look at the right side of the Chamber, please? [[Pause.]] It's just that we're, from the beginning, asking for the word...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u361	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u362	It is also to announce the presentation of a statement of vote on the vote which is not to be regretted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u363	Be registered. Mr. André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u364	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u365	Be registered. By continuing to vote, we will vote on vote No 157 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the PSD ) — Congratulations on the sporting performance of Portuguese knights in world championships.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u366	Mr President, this vote is not on the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u367	This is a vote which is not in the vote script but which has been distributed in the Bureau and which is presented by the PSD. I don't know if this vote came in early... They're informing me you came in early. But we can postpone your vote for another moment... Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u368	Mr President, the vote is not on the script and we do not agree that it will be voted on today.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u369	Since there is no consensus for it to be voted on today, its vote is postponed. Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u370	Mr President, I'm sorry, but the vote is not in the script why?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u371	I don't know. Can the services indicate when the vote was presented? [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the script is distributed before the votes and the Members. Members should have given this and called attention to the Bureau, but as they did not, we cannot now go against the non-consensualness given by the CFP. Therefore, this vote cannot be voted on today. Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u372	Mr President, I have asked that this House not commit the indelicacy of not recognizing the presence in the gallery of family members of some people for whom regrets have been voted. I'd like that to be recognized all over the House. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u373	Mr. Deputies, the services inform the Bureau of who is in the galleries and I was not informed of the presence of anyone other than members of the Federation of Motorcyclism of Portugal. I can't know who's in the galleries.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u374	Certainly, Mr President, but I have this information and I would like the House to recognize the presence of some family members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u375	Mrs. Members, let us now vote vote No 158 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Rejection by the aggression of another nurse, at Santa Maria Hospital, and by the constant escalation of violence against health professionals in our country. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for vote No 161 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Repudiation of the aggressions to a judge of the Family and Minor Court of Matosinhos. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u376	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u377	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will vote for vote No 162 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Of condemnation and concern for the aggression of another teacher and an operational assistant at the Bela Vista Basic School in Setúbal. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote for vote No 163 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by CH ) — Concern for rented rooms at Hospital de S. José due to the heavy rains in Lisbon. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will vote for vote No 164 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CH ) — Repudiation of the statements by the Minister of Internal Administration to the social communication. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Mr André Silva asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u378	Mr President, it is to be announced that the NAP will present a written declaration of vote on Votes Nos 158, 161, 163 and 164 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u379	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will now vote for Vote No 166 / XIV / 1. a ( presented by the CFP ) — Condemning the Trump Plan, which is a face-to-face to the national rights of the Palestinian people and international law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH and the abstention from the IL.]] We will vote for vote No 170 / XIV / 1. a — ( submitted by the PSD ) — Concerned about the terms of the « Peace Plan for the Middle East », at the initiative of the US administration. [[The vote was put to the vote, with the support of PS, PSD, PAN and IL, votes against the PCP and the ENP and abstained from BE, CDS-PP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 200 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Move of the President of the Republic to India. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Energy and Planning of the Territory on draft resolutions No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the establishment of a national control plan for the invasive water plant, 58 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Action plan for water basin control and 130 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national action plan for the control of the invasive water plant to ensure its removal and recovery of the ecosystems affected by it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Maria da Luz Rosinha will now take note of an opinion of the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with Office No 13 / 14. a - CTED / 2020, the Committee on Transparency and the Statute of Members gave an opinion to authorize Mr Francisco Pereira Oliveira to intervene within the framework of the cars referred to in the Central Court of Portimão Cable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-06.u381	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when there is no request for a word, we shall vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next session is held on Wednesday, 12 February. of the first item on the agenda are political statements. In the second point together, Petition No 216 / XIII / 2 will be assessed. a ( Union of Unions of the Viseu District ) — They call for measures to combat desertification within the country, Bill No. 24 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Determines the preparation by the Government of the annual report on regional asymmetries in Portugal and the Draft Resolution Nos 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Invest in territorial cohesion and combat desertification within the country, 218 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Digital Platform in Geographic Information System(SIG) and 237 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a development plan for the national territory with measures to enhance the interior and to combat the abandonment of the rural world. of the third point is the joint discussion of Petition No 510 / XIII / 3. a ( Fernando António Pinheiro Correia et al.) — About the operation of the Altice of acquisition of the Media Capital Group and its effects and of the Resolution Project No 193 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Adoption of the necessary mechanisms to prevent the purchase of the Media Capital Group by Cofina and to prevent conglomerates in the area of social communication. A good weekend and thank you very much for the collaboration of all. [[It was 14 hours and 36 minutes.]]
