ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. The session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I think it is clear that, from now on and during the state of calamity, a record is enough. Thus, the registration of presences and the registration of quorum of votes becomes a single register. Before we move on to the presentation and discussion of the Implementation Report of 3. the Declaration by the State of Emergency, concerning the period 18 April to 2 May 2020, requests Ms Maria da Luz Rosinha to read the file. You have the floor, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and very late to all. I am now announcing the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau. I refer, first, to Resolution Projects Nos 464 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee to monitor the implementation of response measures to the COVID-19 epidemic, 465 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to strengthen social action in higher education in the fight against the crisis of COVID-19, which goes down to 8. the Commission, 466 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends measures to respond to the health, economic and social crisis of COVID-19 in higher education and science, which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 469 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to the operation of the State in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area. Law No. 390 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Establishs the possibility of rescue under certain conditions of savings-reform plans ( PPR ), savings-education plans ( PPE ) and savings-reform plans / education ( PPR/ E ), following the economic difficulties caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and the COVID-19 disease, which falls to 5. the Commission, 391 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a new contest for CI & DT projects in all scientific fields, which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 392 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extraordinary mechanism for the regularization of debts for non-payment of propines in public higher education institutions, which falls to 8. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u3	Let us then move on to the first item on the agenda with the presentation and discussion of the Implementation Report of 3. the Declaration by the State of Emergency for the period from 18 April to 2 May 2020. You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Eduardo Cabrite, which I use to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u4	Mr President, I also greet you, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report corresponds to a duty of democratic transparency, of scrutiny, corresponding to the way in which, during the last period of implementation of the state of emergency, the Assembly of the Republic, the Government and the Presidency of the Republic, in common, have taken decisions which had an accession which was essential for us, with a success compared to the overallity of the closest European countries, in a framework of respect for the principles of proportionality, adequacy, without jeopardizing democratic freedoms, to live an exceptional regime that has allowed us to face the stage at which we are now — marked by a gradual opening of economic activity, by the return of life in society (from restoring to trade), by returning to teaching, social functions such as day care or normality in the functioning of homes and other social support structures — but, essentially, with a response that has proved the centrality of the National Health Service in our public policy system. A National Health Service that has always met the demands of the pandemic, either as regards the response to its ability to host patients, in the articulation with other State structures in the preparation of follow-up with those who were in compulsory confinement or in prophylactic follow-up, or in the manner in which it responded to the most serious cases that determined the hospitalization in intensive care units. During this period, it was also given priority to a systematic testing policy, articulated with the five State Secretaries who had political coordination functions at regional level, which allowed them to act decisively on particularly fragile sectors of Portuguese society. A response that led to the testing of about 70,000 workers and household users and more than 30 000 daycare workers, enabling confidence in the reopening of the day-care centres on 18 May. The way in which the model was established allows adequate response to outbreaks around certain social groups, economic units or some areas, ensuring immediate intervention and the confidence of the populations. It is in this spirit of proximity to the populations, of authority of the State exercised in a decentralized manner, in conjunction with the municipalities, without any class of authoritarianism, with attention to the social and economic impact to which, from now on, we will all find a response, which we end the period of emergency, we transit, with serenity and full tranquility, to the disaster situation that we have experienced during the month of May and, above all, we have firmly created the conditions for, together, preparing the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u5	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, Members: It was not a good sign that during the state of emergency several political leaders had to reaffirm that democracy was not suspended. It wouldn't be so bad! But if democracy was not suspended, various freedoms remained. And more: this report reveals to us, with regret, that something else has been suspended. That thing is the sense of state. We already know that the Socialist Party very much likes the state, has the tendency to confuse itself with the state, sometimes even above the state, certainly well above all and above all. That's why they don't even notice, when they lose the notion of decency and the sense of state. This report shall be issued in accordance with a legal requirement. The law only provides that it contains provisions and measures adopted in the course of the state of emergency. It is not a complex liability, but still the PS government has managed to confuse things. He took advantage of this Report to make propaganda, taking up his role as 'owner of all this', making it appear that, after all, democracy was really suspended. It is only in this sense that this extraordinary phrase can be read in the conclusions: « The few who have positioned themselves outside this true communion of good will have been denied by the Portuguese accession to the collective effort », while the « overwhelming majority(...) did not hesitate to act in defense of the Portuguese. Do not keep on seeking. ” In a sitting place, the government reveals its development by unanimity, its totalitarian rib and accuses those who think otherwise of not defending the Portuguese. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is an official report, but it is pure propaganda and politics of the lowest! More than the vote against the report, what this deserves is the repudiation of the true Democrats.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u9	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This report, which has been brought to us today, is nothing but pure propaganda. That's what's presented to us here. A report of several pages on which it is no longer done than a report to the action of the Government, without any demonstration of concrete results. What is to be said in this report? We are talking about uncertified masks, for which the Public Prosecutor has already opened an investigation to find out what this is. There's no mention of what was bought and that didn't come, because, in fact, everything came, except the fans we had paid to China, who never arrived and we don't know where they are. That is to be said in this report! But we also need to say something else: explain how uncertified masks have reached our security forces and our hospital forces. How could that have happened without this famous Report identifying him? Oh, my God! [[Protests of PS Members.]] More: it is worth noting how, after so much propaganda by layoff, he finally only reached a third of the companies and how there are still thousands who say that they do not receive 1 cent, nor do they have any expectation to receive. None of this is in this report! And the government now admits to prolonging the layoff to those who need it. He also admitted to waiting for the Public Prosecutor's inquiry into uncertified masks and even admitted to waiting for the election of the new President of the Republic. The government admits everything, because it really does not care what happens here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u11	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u12	I will finish, Mr. President. We have a state of emergency report that is no more than a huge piece of propaganda that could be left aside, with no value whatsoever. That's what this state of emergency report is!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u13	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us discuss today the report of the 3rd. the Declaration of the State of Emergency, with life to give reason at this time to the Ecological Party "The Greens". In the debate on its implementation, we said that, while the Portuguese continued to look at the full sense of responsibility for the recommendations of the public authorities, the Government continued to have all the conditions within the normal legal framework so that nothing was lacking in this fight. We greet those who have stayed at home whenever they asked them to do so, those who have been working, keeping essential companies and services running, those who have assumed solidarity for those who need them, but who have not given up acting and fighting for rights and for what they believe, and in particular the professionals of the National Health Service, who have given everything they could to minimize the effects of the epidemic that we face. We're in a state of calamity. The State of Emergency Report has forgotten the calamity that is being experienced in public transport in that period, and still today. Yes, we speak of calamity: reduced times; overcrowded transport; abandoned localities; workers, students, elderly people who lack their commitments because they do not have transport. The report on the situation in rail transport in the Azambuja industrial zone is the image of tens of thousands of workers every day who have no other solution. Students who stay in the stops because the buses pass by full, with the difficulty of the following has been removed. Removal of careers, which are an example of boats in the Tagus, insulating even more locations in their connections to city halls, public services, health services. Places that have returned to have only one transport in the morning and another at the end of the afternoon and other locations that have so far lost. On user questions, operators respond that they are waiting for government authorization to reset the schedules. But compensation remains at 100 %. If it's about calamity we're talking about, it's about emergency measures we need. It is essential to ensure that, together with public transport operators, the supply of careers and timetables is strengthened, while the distance between passengers is needed, and in the future. There is an urgent need to ensure that the scope of the single social pass is extended to the entire national territory. To answer these problems, there is no need for a state of emergency or a state of calamity. It takes determination to face the logic of profit that prevails in the management of collective transport. These measures are an emergency, until there is anyone who considers that, after the outbreak, everything is as it is in the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u16	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we discuss this Report on the state of emergency, there are participants, artists, people who have also been outside this Report, precisely because the same does not speak of what is missing, of the answers that are fundamental to some sectors of our country, who continue to wait for support to arrive and where support has not arrived. Two weeks have passed since the President of the Republic revoked the state of emergency. The disease continues to evolve in Portugal and we continue to debate whether or not it was sensible we did not renew the state of emergency. This means that there are indeed support that is now at stake and that may not be extended over time. Therefore, it was not in a light manner that we warned, at the time, that the state of emergency should have continued. Nevertheless, in the report we are discussing today, we must not fail to mention that the reference to the strategy of response to the health crisis has not been based precisely on the one who is scientific knowledge about the disease. In fact, it is clear from the clarifications provided by the Directorate-General for Health, by the meetings themselves in Infarmed, by the experts themselves who show themselves, that the basis of defination has criteria not prevention and health assurance, but rather concerns about economic issues. Economic order, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, none of us are outside and none of us are no longer sensitive to these criteria. We are talking about public health, and this is manifested daily in public transport in those who go to work and who still do not feel safe not only to guard their daily obligations but also to enjoy the spaces of the city or its normal life, in their daily lives. There is, in fact, a concern about a manifest inability to ensure the success of defining linked to the policies that have been implemented. And the courage, which we initially verified, with which the government faced the health crisis was gradually losing itself as the first signs of non-compliance were recorded by the population and the first voices of dissatisfaction were heard. Curiously, voices of dissatisfaction that also had political responsibilities. Moreover, it was this lack of courage that justified the unacceptable surrender of, for example, to the PCP and the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ), at the commemorations of 1. May one—and here we will be to see, in September, at the Front Party! — which passed the wrong message to the citizens and which highlighted an already old problem with exceptions and legal subterfuges which no longer aim at the spirit of measures, spirit, in which it should be the legislator himself or the government itself to set the example. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the defination has taken place and in the coming days we will know whether or not it has proved positive. It is because we heard the government promise that it would only advance with defination when we had news of how it had run the first stage, which did not actually happen. But, regardless of the conclusions that we have reached, the state of calamity cannot in any way serve to de-responsibility of the State or not to predict future problems and even less to prevent social, economic support and also the transition to environmental sustainability that we have to do in our country. While some have been here causing fictional political crises, namely to discuss whether or not there is political confidence in Mário Centeno — what a red pass for you to go to Banco de Portugal! — there was a whole health, economic and environmental crisis in Portugal to which it was necessary to respond. It's her, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot turn our backs either in the debate of this report or in the debate that awaits us in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u18	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u19	I conclude now, Mr President. We Portuguese are used to say that «fast and well, there is no one», and in the coming days they will say if this is no longer an example of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u20	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed the state of emergency report for the period from 18 April to 2 May. The first note I would like to leave is to say that, for those who, like us, approved and made it possible for this same state of emergency, the periods of the state of emergency that we had basically fulfilled its function and the decision to be in emergency state, in our opinion, was successful and overall fulfilled its function. One different question is to know how this state of emergency went and another, still, is to know the terms of exit of the same state of emergency. With regard to how this state of emergency has taken place, I have said this many times, and I repeat it now, and I sincerely believe that this report is an expression of this, that the Government should have resisted the idea of propaganda in relation to that state of emergency, the measures adopted and what happened during that same period. But perhaps asking a Government of the Socialist Party to resist propaganda is the same as asking an alcoholic to stop drinking or a drug addict to stop consuming! Is that what you're talking about? [[PS protests.]] It's very difficult! It's very demanding! We know that. But, returning to the subject in particular, I wanted to say that if it is obvious — and I will not say much more about it — that in health we have managed to avoid the worst, there are still many clarifications on health, particularly on the contracts that have been made. For this reason, the CDS will shortly propose here a possible committee to monitor all these matters. But we avoid the worst, it's true. In your area, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, it was still worth explaining how the PPP approach, i.e., pedagogical, progressive and proportional, applied and how different cases were treated differently, with different severity. You'll see and evaluate. Mr Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you a question. Having closed the SEF Temporary Installation Centre ( Service for Foreigners and Borders ), at the Lisbon airport — after all, of that heinous crime that happened there — we have heard that, at the Lisbon airport, since the closure of that Centre, there has been no follow-up of the entries. However, there are still entries because there are still some flights, and today's news is even that of expanding the number of flights. I would like to ask whether this is the case or not, and if anyone arrives — even from problematic areas, from the point of view of COVID-19 — has an alternative to that Centre. It's a relevant question. I would also like to point out, as has already been said, that during this period, if overall the citizenship of the Portuguese was enormous, there were different treatments. In fact, the situation of 1. the May one, which was the last day of this emergency period, had a completely different treatment from the one who had the generality of the Portuguese, on a weekend when, moreover, it was prohibited to travel between municipalities. Therefore, create the idea that for some — whether for the CGTP or for the closest parties to the government — everything is permitted and that for others it is not allowed, or it has not been allowed, almost nothing is a wrong idea. I shall finish, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, with the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u22	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u23	Mr. Minister, there is a discrepancy between numbers. We witnessed horrible crimes during this period and we know that domestic violence may have increased. The numbers of the PSP (PSC) are not consistent with those of the GNR (National Republican Guard ) : the PSP gives a consistent low, the GNR gives an increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u24	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u25	It is an important matter, as it is important to know how many of these measures, from the economic point of view, have not yet produced their results.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u26	I have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we make today the final balance sheet of the month and half in which the country lived in an emergency state—and which has already, as we know some time ago—a question that we will have to put to ourselves is what would have happened if the state of emergency had not been declared during that month and a half. Were the measures taken to protect the health of Portuguese and the measures to contain the pandemic we are facing necessary? Could they be very different? Well, I believe that reality is right to the reservations that the CFP has placed on the statement of the state of emergency. The measures were necessary, particularly in the field of health, confinement, the declaration of the state of emergency, from our point of view, was unnecessary and would like us to believe that the reality of this is proof of our conviction. Of course, because the country was not waiting for the state of emergency to take containment measures that were already necessary. And things would have been much worse if we had — the Portuguese, the government, all the authorities, the National Health Service — were waiting. It was not expected by the state of emergency, the measures were being taken and generally taken by the Portuguese. Well, and the state of emergency stopped a while ago. And did things change after that? Of course not! Of course not! The Portuguese didn't all come to the street, they didn't all go to the beach, that is, there were measures that have continued to be taken, and they are certainly going to be taken with results. We can say that, compared with the situation in other countries, Portugal compares very well. Obviously the situation is very serious, people in Portugal continue to die and we all regret it. There are measures that must continue to be taken, but he wants to believe that Portuguese have in fact provided a good example of responding to this situation and to the difficulties that have been created. However, there were those who took advantage of the state of emergency for layoffs, for termination of contracts. There were those who invoked the state of emergency to justify harmful measures of workers' rights which had not supported any, nor on the basis of the statement of the state of emergency. In fact, this has been taken advantage of, and that is a great concern we have. In other words, there have been people who have lost rights in recent times and continue to be deprived of incomes that allow them to cope with the normal expenses of their lives. This is where the state can't turn its back. People who do not have support right now need to have. As usual, no one can stay behind. It is therefore necessary to take very serious and urgent measures so that people who have been deprived of their incomes can have their life restored and see their difficulties overcome. That's necessary! Therefore, we will have to continue to strengthen the capacity of the National Health Service, continue to support people who need to be supported, continue to support those workers who cannot stop working because they are on the front line and support that the return to the normal activity of the country, as far as possible, is done in security conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u29	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the measures are necessary, the state of emergency, as demonstrated, was not necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u30	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u31	Mr. President, Mrs. and Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when discussing the Report of the last period of the state of emergency, we are in practice making an assessment to the entire state of emergency and to the response of our country to this pandemic crisis. I believe that the first of the conclusions must be that when we put reason, science and public health knowledge on the table to defend our people, we are doing good. That is why those Trump or Bolsonaro apprentices show how ashamed they are today, because the extreme right, which fights against reason and against science, the one who is the creator of fake news sites that spreads misinformation, is, in fact, one of the injuries of the pandemic in our country, one of the injuries of the pandemic in the world, because it is perceived that they are a massive deception to our people and that they put the lives of people at risk. Trump's and Bolsonaro's apprentices can well here scream very loud, but the first of the conclusions is that they are not right and the people realized that they are a lousy. The second conclusion that we should draw is that those who begged against public services, particularly against the National Health Service, have come out defeated, defeated in the eyes of the world, not only of our people, because the Portuguese National Health Service showed that it met its greatest challenges and protected our people when many others failed. If we look at the countries without the National Health Service, with the health services delivered to the market, we understand as well how the liberals were so badly, but so badly, in this photograph and that, if they were sent to our country, so badly would our people also be. The third conclusion is that Mr President of the Republic has three times been concerned with suspending the right to strike, suspending the right to resistance, and has not once been concerned about suspending the right to dividends, suspending the right to dismissal. From that point of view, Mr President of the Republic failed because he had not one, not two, but three times to correct the mistake. Every time he could have done so, it was already visible the increase in the number of redundancies, but no, Mr President of the Republic always wanted to be more against the workers than against those who took dividends from the country and put them into offshore; he wanted to be more against the rights of work than against those who placed the dismissal on the table. From that point of view, the Government could also for three times have corrected its diplomas and demanded that those who access State support should not lay off, even precarious workers, and did not. I believe that this is one of the problems that we cannot devalue here because the state of emergency has not passed the social emergency. And it didn't happen, because the economic emergency was installed. From that point of view, those who have been behind the measures adopted by the Government — like many informal workers, like many precarious workers, such as workers in the field of arts, among others — must now deserve our answer. That's what the days are going on. The state of emergency did not suspend democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u32	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. The state of emergency was first used in the democratic space. We hope it was the last time, but he did not close the response to the pandemic, did not close the answer to the economy, nor did he answer to the social emergency. I believe that what was left to do, i.e. leaving no one behind, is what now has to occupy us as a priority. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u34	Mr André Coelho Lima, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : In fact, we are looking at a report that ends a historic period in our country — a month and a half in which we were in a state of emergency, for the first time in the democratic period. One month ago, in the analysis of the first report on the implementation of the state of emergency, I myself said that, and I quote, "the government will naturally benefit from a greater margin of understanding, in view of the special moment we live." The fact is that, while we are still in a state of calamity today, it seems that the government has accelerated rapidly towards political defination, occupying the public space and the media space with minor issues, with political and electoral concerns, forgetting — I stress the 'forgetting' — that there are still many Portuguese people going through many difficulties, that there are many people who have lost everything and that there are many other people who have lost almost everything. If, as I said, the PSD gave this political comfort to the government, it also agreed that the government would help a little. The truth is that this state of emergency has also been characterized by a set of matters in which, euphemistically, we can say that the government has not been doing well. I am referring, in particular, to layoffs and delays in social security payments, to the successive failure to comply with the deadlines provided by the Government itself, such as on 28 April, 5 May, 15 May, with prejudice to all companies that were in need of such support with a great urgency. I am referring to the COVID-19 lines, and we are almost in June, in fact, yesterday, this topic marked the debate for the fortnight because, in fact, the money is not reaching the economy. I am referring to the public guarantee in credit insurance, which is so important to the national export sector, and the government presented a diploma about two weeks ago, but it has not yet obtained information from companies about how they can resort to or how they can return to international trade. I am also referring to the worst negotiation of the tripartite protocol between the Government, the GSPM (Portuguese Mutual Guarantee Society) and the bank, which does not require companies to effectively use the ceiling granted, which may, to the extent, lead to the fact that there is no injection of liquidity that our economy needs so much. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister of Internal Administration, forgiveness of sentences was the most characteristic of this period of emergency. It was a pardon for sentences in which the Government was subject to the ridiculousness of releasing 1853 prisoners, without any argument related to the COVID-19, then attending a veto of the presidential drawer, because, having the President to pardon those who really needed to be released, it released only 14 of those who were in the risk group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u36	This, Mr Minister, leads to news such as this: « Former prisoner of 37 years, who had been released from the Lisbon Prison Establishment a few hours earlier under the law of pardon of extraordinary penalties and exits, was caught by the PSP on the street of the Angels, on Monday night ; « Man arrested for assault in Lisbon, after being released because of the COVID-19 »; « Prisoner pardoned due to the pandemic of the COVID-19 arrested for violent robbery in Lisbon. He was less than a month in jail for 30 thefts and thefts». Mr Minister, I would like to ask you two simple questions and a third comment. The first question is this: are these prisoners, released to save others, going back to jail, putting others at risk?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u37	Mr President, you have to rush the missing questions, because you are almost reaching the limit of the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u38	I will finish, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your tolerance. How does the government feel about those who are being arrested for minor offences in the meantime? Will they be held in it or will they be released by decree from serving punishment, putting others at risk? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u39	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Internal Administration, Minister of Health, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The third report, which allows us to make not only the report of this third period, but that of the whole period in which we were in a state of emergency for the first time in our constitutional history, highlights something which should once again be in this last debate on the subject, emphasized. The institutions of the Republic and democracy were able to implement the state of emergency in accordance with the previous Constitution and, of course, with margin of dissent over their need. Some parties have been accompanying it in its entirety, others in some of the votes, but globally we can all agree that Portuguese democracy, robustly, passed its national emergency test, through the decree of the state of emergency, and that the institutions have functioned and continued to operate. Today, we can give that first point as relevant. Secondly, it was also a learning process. Because it was the first time that the state of emergency had been declared, many of the procedures were not given, because, fortunately, they do not have to be oiled, because, fortunately, they are exceptional, they are extraordinary. For this reason, obviously, there was a gradual improvement of the response at all times, which allowed for improving the administrative response, organizing the services, articulating with other spheres and, at the same time, as is obvious, combating the pandemic. It is not an emergency state that we evaluate and that comes to an end. It is a state of emergency which simultaneously mobilized all institutions and all citizens to combat something that is to a large extent still unknown and whose reach in the daily life of all of us, on a large scale, we cannot yet measure how it will work in the future. In this regard, the previous interventions focused on two major groups. One of concern about the future, of course. We have followed many of the questions that have been put on the table, relevant, such as the question of transport referred to by the ENP, the question of protection of workers that the Left Block and the PCP have put on the table — these are issues that, in the following stages, will mobilize the whole country for the necessary economic recovery—the issues that Mr André Coelho Lima, of the PSD, has also focused on and which mobilize us for the great national challenge, which has not ended with the state of emergency—I dare say that it begins with the end of the state of emergency and for the scale of things we want to continue to do. But, looking at what we are also discussing, and this point should not be made clear, I must say that it is truly embarrassing to hear some statements from the same people who demanded, as urgently as possible, that the state of emergency should be declared.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u41	Me? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u42	Yes, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, we recalled many of the concerns expressed by you, by several militants and by several leaders of the party, who noted the importance of the rapid adoption of measures, the urgency of not letting the moment pass. [[Protests by the Member of the IL João Cotrim de Figueiredo.]] It is true that, in consistency, he voted against the decree of the state of emergency, but look there for the idea that he was at the root of the problems, when the state of emergency was indispensable, at some point, to be able to properly guard the way in which the answer was prepared, it seems to me that it is coming to the debate looking at a reality that was not the one that really was on the table and that happened. On the other hand, it seems to us that the reverse argumentary is also shifted. That is, if, on the one hand, we agree that the state of emergency has fulfilled its function, on the other hand, we must also agree that, since it is exceptional, it must end, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real. Obviously, there is a day when the state of emergency has to allow us, organized health services, organized the response of the country, organized the Public Administration and the citizens, to begin to definate and prepare the return to the new normal, with which we will have to get used to living. Therefore, the state of emergency is declared when strictly necessary and the idea of gradualism obliges us, indeed, to recognize that the purpose of the state of emergency is fulfilled, to decree its end. All the issues that he refers to are also relevant, but it is not for them that we should continue to maintain indefinitely an emergency state which is no longer justified, because it is not necessary and proportionate to other alternatives that are on the table. Finally, on the subject of forgiveness of sentences...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u43	I would ask you to conclude, Mr, because you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, the subject of forgiveness of sentences and pardons was again placed on the table. The explanations were clear: it was necessary to prevent the virus from entering the prison system, in particular because other people could be arrested and entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u45	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u46	In conclusion, according to the figures presented by Mr André Coelho Lima himself, in fact, of the more than 1000 prisoners released, half a dozen reported cases are very revealing of the scale and absence of a pandemic problem, if we want, and of other problems caused by this release.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u47	Mr President, I apologize to you, but you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u48	I conclude, Mr. President. That is why, Mr President, there seems to me to be a clear disproportion in the analysis you have made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u49	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u50	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u51	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to defend honor, because there has been a falsehood about a personal position.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u52	Mr President, you will speak at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u54	Mr. Minister of Health, you have the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: These were particularly difficult times for the National Health Service, which exceeded a performance test. However, it is important to say that these were also particularly demanding times for the realization of acquisitions of clinical consumption material and not only. To sow fear and mistrust over all that has been done does not benefit anyone: the mistrust of those who sell, the mistrust of those who buy, the mistrust of those who manage, the mistrust of those who govern, the mistrust of the Portuguese,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as if there were no rules, rules, audits, audits, an independent Public Ministry, independent regulatory entities, judicial authorities, a Court of Auditors and even an Assembly of the Republic, a Parliament, which is responsible for assessing, as if we were not all on the same side, when we tried to buy better! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me stress this: it has already been concluded that health professionals, those of the SNS in particular, deserve our respect. Yes, the public managers of this country also deserve it! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, propaganda was to say that everything went well. He didn't! What went well is the Portuguese and it is in them that we think when we work every day to open the school, transport, factories and shops. Caution and trust are needed, because health is not only the absence of disease, it is much more than that, and it is very important that this should be emphasized. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u56	You have the floor to conclude the debate, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of three debates on the reports that the law of the state of the site and the state of emergency determines that the government is present, we can say that we live, for the first time in 45 years of constitutional rule, a state of exception, but we live as an affirmation of the maturity of our democracy,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... as an affirmation of the capacity of the Government, which resorts to exceptional mechanisms without jeopardizing the freedoms, which affirms the authority of the State in a decentralized, dialogue and subject to democratic scrutiny by Parliament. These three reports are the example of this. The hundreds of pages of these reports include not only the Government's synthesis, but also the operational reports of the security forces and services, the report of all the legislative and administrative measures adopted and even the monitoring structures in which the difficulties are evident. This is an exercise of democratic transparency. What we demonstrated here was that the state of emergency was not the first response of Portuguese society to the pandemic challenge, which no one expected or anticipated, but it was necessary and proportionate for Portugal to prove to have better results than many other neighbouring countries, to which we compared ourselves. The state of emergency did not suspend democracy, nor did it suspend workers' rights. For this reason, the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) has been strengthened as it has never happened in recent decades and has not stopped acting, in relation to situations of abuse, during the time of the state of emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u59	Now is the time to keep an eye on the pandemic, but above all look at the economic and social problem that the report itself recognises. For this answer, we all have already from Monday, in the hearings to the parties on the economic and social recovery programme. This is the way of the future, with the maturity that Portuguese democracy has shown during the period of the state of emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u60	Before we conclude this point, I will give the floor to Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, who recently asked her to defend her honor. I do not know whether it is personal, whether it is from the bench, because in this case you are the only representative of your bench. I ask the honourable Member to be very quick on the question. The question, of course, is very important. He said there was a falsehood...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u61	It is for the defense of the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u62	Please explain what falsehood was.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u63	Mr President, it cannot prevail in this House the falsehood given by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, suggesting that the Liberal Initiative or its Member have ever defended the establishment of the state of emergency. Not only were we the first party to vote against the state of emergency, as we were the only one who never voted in favour of the state of emergency. In addition, we were the first party in this Chamber to alert to the need for rapid adoption of measures, the first to alert to the excess that could be the declaration of the state of emergency...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u64	Thank you, sir. You've already made your request clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u65	...and the first to announce that it was essential that we leave the state of emergency to return to a normal economic recovery. That, yes, is true, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves! There is no need to miss the truth in order to make your political views, unless you want to give me the reason for the PS's position in all this matter of becoming the owner of democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u66	To answer and explain, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u67	Mr. President, I will try to be a telegraph. I think we should not confuse the defence of honour with political dissent and our dissent is of a political nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u68	No, no! It's falsehood!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u69	We did not at any time regard the honour of the honourable Member or of the Liberal Initiative, but we underlined only something that the honourable Member has just said. The Liberal Initiative, since the first hour, called for urgency in the measures, but never demonstrated the reason why the state of emergency was not effectively indispensable for many of them to be adopted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u70	That's not what you said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u71	And it is a political criticism which I address, I repeat again, that has nothing to do with their honor and dignity. I respect your position as respect for all positions, and I hope you will do the same. Obviously, I'm not going to open the incident to ask for the honor of defending honor, but who was accused of missing the truth was me. I have not given that note, Mr President, I have only noted that the political position of the Liberal Initiative is inconsistent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u72	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u73	It is incoherent, because it asks for something and, when it is realized through the state of emergency, chooses first to abstain and then to vote against, legitimately. But also legitimate, you will consider, it is my criticism and it is the criticism which, for this reason, I maintain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u74	That's not what you said! You'll hear the recording!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u75	Having concluded that this is the first point, we will begin the second point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law and draft Law No 384 / XIV/1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore or non-cooperating offshore centres, 385 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Excludes entities based in tax havens from any public economic support and 386 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Excludes companies based in tax havens from support lines under the COVID-19 pandemic. To begin the debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present today to the Assembly of the Republic reinforces the regulatory framework for preventing and combating money laundering, as well as for financing terrorism. The transposition into the internal legal order of two directives is concerned : Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018, commonly referred to as « 5. Directive AML’, which reinforces the Union's mechanisms for preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism, on the basis of the draft diploma prepared by the Commission for the Coordination of Prevention and Combating of Capital Banking and the Financing of Terrorism, in which all regulatory and supervisory entities of the sectors considered to be at risk are seated. Second, Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673 also of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018, which, in addition to the above Directive, aims to strengthen the fight against money laundering through criminal law. Concerning the transposition of 5. the AML Directive, the same was incorporated into a comprehensive and cross-cutting review of the main national legal instruments in the field of preventing and combating money laundering and financing of terrorism. First, it is important to highlight the introduction of measures aimed at combating the risks inherent in the lack of face of coins and other virtual assets, which makes it possible to misuse them for criminal purposes by introducing the new concept of "virtual assets", which is popular example of cryptomoeda, whose risk of money laundering has been increasing with increasing investment in bitcoins. Secondly, the imposition of enhanced due diligence measures on obliged entities where they establish business relations with high-risk third countries. Finally, the absolute prohibition on the acceptance of payments made using anonymous prepaid cards. As regards the transposition of the directive on strengthening the fight against money laundering through criminal law, the same substance is essentially the same: an extension of the catalogue of typical illegals underlying the crime of money laundering — in particular at the level of counterfeiting, environmental crime and cybercriminality, including cybercrime — and in the recognition, as a typical conduct of the crime of bleaching, acquisition, detention or use of advantages; at the same time, in the increase of the criminal framework in cases where the offender is an obliged entity, in accordance with Law No 83 / 2017, in the exercise of his professional activities. All this in order to provide justice for more coherent and consistent criminal mechanisms and instruments with our European counterparts, facilitating cross-border cooperation between the competent authorities, eliminating legislative inconsistencies and inconsistencies between Member States which can enable offenders to choose the jurisdictions most favourable to their conduct. In short, this bill reinforces the criminal regulatory framework for preventing and combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism, placing Portugal at the front of the fight against this criminal activity. We believe, therefore, that the same will deserve the agreement of the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u77	I take advantage of you to greet all the ladies and all the gentlemen. Members and, in the course of the discussion of these legislative initiatives, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Alves, the Member of the CFP, for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law of the Government is another transposition of the European directives which seek to disguise the incapacity that the European Union has shown in combating fraud and tax evasion and money laundering and successive scandals — from Panama Papers to LuxLeaks, among many others. There is only offshore because the European Union, i.e. the great powers that lead it to the taste of the interests of the great capital, especially German and French, allow and promote it. Directives, reports, special committees are the political and ideological coverage of fraud, which is to tell citizens that something is being done when tax dumping regimes are maintained in the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Malta, Ireland and other countries and territories. Since we are very insufficient, we follow some of the proposals of this diploma in the field of criminal law, but we reaffirm the need to change the policies that facilitate and allow these practices. Declarations of intent are not enough, measures are needed to put an end to tax havens and to put all possible obstacles to them, measures such as those brought by the CFP to this debate. This is the requirement, because it is not acceptable for workers, small businesses, to pay their taxes in Portugal, while some and some companies can continue to resort to legal and illegal mechanisms to steal from their tax obligations. A fairer fiscal policy is needed to ensure that the profits made in Portugal are taxed in Portugal, as the CFP proposed in the State budget by 2020, reducing taxation on labour and consumption. Tax havens are an injustice and a bleeding of public resources, which are so lacking for the answers that the country needs, particularly at the moment. In addition to tax evasion, tax havens promote the financing of crime, terrorism and illegal activities. The PCP presented two bills today. The first prohibits trade relations and all transfers with entities based in non-cooperating offshore centres and obligations to communicate with others. The second excludes entities based in tax havens from access to any public support to the economy as part of the COVID-19 response measures. The support has been insufficient, it has not reached many small businesses. Therefore, more support is needed, but it is also necessary to ensure that such support is distributed fairly. It would not be acceptable for any public support to be addressed to entities that, even by developing their activity in Portugal, are based in tax havens or territories that promote tax dumping, with clear damage to the country, such as the Netherlands, where tax on profits of economic groups is diverted, such as that of the owner of the Pingo Doce. The exclusion of COVID-19 support to companies based in tax havens is a discussion present in many countries. Denmark, Poland or Austria are moving forward in this direction. Let's not waste it, gentlemen. Members, no opportunity to put obstacles, to demonstrate repudiation and to ensure that the resources of the Portuguese people will not be delivered to those who escape their obligations towards the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u79	For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecologist Party now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no need to make a great effort to understand what they are for and who serve the tax havens. We are all tired of knowing that the entities that use this mechanism do so in order not to pay taxes or hide the origin of that money and, in many cases, with these two objectives. It is not, by any chance, that the use of tax havens is one of the most common forms of international tax evasion, and it is estimated that there is a concentration of 26% of all the world's wealth in tax havens. However, the situation that we are currently living in this pandemic is further evidence of the injustice and immorality of the existence of tax havens, especially if it is allowed to allow companies based in tax havens to benefit from public support, as is the case with other companies paying their taxes in Portugal. In fact, if, under normal circumstances, the existence of mechanisms that allow us to escape the payment of tax obligations and hide money, allowing some to live in tax havens, while the generality is forced to live in a real tax hell, it is already completely incomprehensible, in an exceptional situation such as the one we live, that reality becomes absolutely unacceptable. For this reason, the Greens believe that, because of a culture of democratic responsibility, this House should not allow these companies to be given State support. If the Portuguese State does not serve for these companies here to place their tax office, these companies may also not serve to receive State support. In addition, in the context of this outbreak, some European countries are already working to prohibit access to State support for all companies based in tax havens. Moreover, the existence of tax havens is absolutely inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainable economic model that is being installed in the world. In fact, tax havens substantially weaken the state's financial bases and do not create wealth for the country, questioning its revenues and resources that could otherwise be channeled to public investment in absolutely priority areas, such as public services and social policies. Only in 2018 were EUR 9 billion transferred to tax havens, which means that only in a year, EUR 9 billion generated in Portugal was not subject to any tax in our country. But, as we see, the existence of tax havens has negative economic, financial, social and political consequences, which is why the Greens Ecological Party has always been against this system and has always called for its end. For this reason, the Greens have already presented a draft resolution which aims to recommend to the Government that it be actively involved with the other States and international organizations of which it is part, in order to permanently eliminate tax havens. However, we believe that during this pandemic it would be more than fair to prevent companies based in tax havens from accessing national support lines, and these lines should be channelled to companies that meet their tax obligations in national territory and that actually contribute to the economy and development of the country. With the legislative initiative now presented by the Greens, it is intended to ensure legally that companies based in tax havens are excluded from access to public support lines. This is our proposal, which we now leave to the consideration of the other banks, calling for the sense of democratic responsibility that the decision on this matter requires. [[Congrats from PCP MP Duarte Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u81	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Mónica Quintela's Member of the PSD. Mrs. Deputy, have the finesse.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's proposal for a law seeks to transpose into the internal legal order two Community directives with a view to improving the laws on prevention and combating money laundering and financing of terrorism. The deadline for the transposition of Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843 ended on 10 January and the Government, although it frequently propagates that it wants to combat economic and financial crime only after it has been expressly urged by the European Union is that it has now come forward with this bill. Portugal was assessed for the fourth time, in 2017, by the Financial Action Group, the FATF, which considered the need to strengthen technical and human resources to develop a strategy to analyse and combat the crime of « white collar », in line with the criticisms that the PSD has repeatedly made to the lack of government investment in the justice system, particularly in the lack of the means necessary for criminal investigation. We must not forget that this type of crime is increasingly sophisticated, that the digital revolution is a fertile ground for its growth and that today there is a whole new financial market, with coins and virtual assets, to place particular attention in an area of global interaction. This is to say that the laws are very important, but they only serve if we have the means to implement them. Even alert to two notes requiring particular attention. The first relates to the amendments to the legal regime of the central registration of the effective beneficiary in such a way that this diploma is no longer a mere letter of intent as it has so far been. The second relates to amendments to the whitening law, Law No. 83 / 2017, and to so-called « collaborators » or « complainants », which have to be compatible with the Whistleblower directive, Directive ( EU ) 2019 / 1937, and which has not yet been transposed into our domestic legal order. It should be noted that this directive solely seeks to protect the 'cooperating' and prevent it from being persecuted for providing information, and does not defend, protect or slow down computer piracy, which is to be censored. Finally, a repair also to the proposed holiday. We understand that the law should not enter into force on the day following its publication. I remember that no one can invoke the lack of knowledge of the law, and for this it takes some time to know and internalize the devaluation of criminal conduct and the penalties applied. It is up to the government to inform citizens in order to link crime practices through prevention. It's always better to prevent than to remedy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u83	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We have discussed here, basically, a bill which, as has been said, corresponds to the transposition of two directives which, regardless of their delay or may have been transcribed previously, which has already been said and which we share, broadly correspond to the intention to improve the legislation and mechanisms to combat money laundering, in particular the money laundering associated with highly organized crime and, above all, to a reality which is very important, the fight against terrorism, which, regardless of the priorities we have at every moment, remains a central priority in European legal order, in European and global concerns. Regardless of the legislative amendment, it is clear that the fight against money laundering and the fight against corruption is essentially done by the means. That is, we can have the best legal instruments, but if we don't have the materiality, computers, people who are going to do so, we won't be able to solve the problem there, which is important. This legislation also leads us to some measures of balance, namely balance in relation to obligations, capacity up to invasion of freedoms, whether individual or economic, and specific obligations for certain professionals, such as accountants, lawyers, etc. But in this consideration we understand that this bill and the directives deserve our consent, because what is at stake is relevant enough for this step and this advance. Very interesting in this regard is all legislation on informal, virtual means of payment. An increasingly important reality, that of cryptomoods and the use of other types of mechanisms, which brings us almost to the Middle Ages and to a logic of trade, but which are increasingly used and are increasingly instruments that are available to criminal organizations, including terrorist organizations. So, globally, I want to give, as has been said, our consent to these matters and draw attention to the need for investment and investment work in this area and in this reality. I would also like to leave a note, saying that as regards the other proposals that have arisen by drag, these matters have no solution but to be at a global and European level, we all know. We may or may not try to make ideological shocks around the issue, but without a global and European solution we are not solving the problem. Finally, I would like to say that, as the initiative's own explanatory statement says, there is a need for a further balance in this area, the balance between, for example, the sanctioning of money laundering and the crimes before it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u85	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u86	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. in this invoice, money laundering cannot be considered more serious than trafficking, extortion or other crime prior to this bleaching. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u87	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There are those who say that it is not worth discussing very much the logic of the Community directives that we are obliged to transpose, but nevertheless I would like to point out some serious aspects of this bill. First, the administrative costs associated with the collection of information will be particularly detrimental to smaller companies, which is already bad in themselves and goes to the wake of the European Union's political discourse of think small first. Secondly, it seems clear that there will be a conflict between collection and reporting to the central register of the effective beneficiary and the general data protection regime, which is not sufficiently cautious. Thirdly, putting Banco de Portugal to authorize virtual assets is transforming it into a kind of cartel against innovation. The application of the directive to crowdfunding platforms also does not help to develop collaborative funding. For the Liberal Initiative, in both cases, it is obvious that the burden of information should fall on stakeholders rather than on platforms. I did not want to end without leaving a reference to Bill No. 385 / XIV / 1. the CFP, which is drawn up for the discussion of this initiative and which is ridiculous to include Ireland or the Netherlands in the list of tax-proscribed countries. We know that the CFP does not like countries with systems that are simpler and lower taxes that attract investment and produce, in time, better wages and better living standards for people, as we stand for.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u89	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u90	I will now finish, Mr President. The thousands of Portuguese who are emigrants testify to this fully. These countries are not tax havens, but if they were to remember one thing: there are only tax havens because there are tax hells.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u91	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is late, the money laundering directives are 2018, should have been transposed by January 2020 and it was following the Luanda Leaks that the European Commission notified Portugal to correct these delays. All the time lost is important when we are talking about the introduction of transparency measures on corporate structures, about the creation of tools to combat opportunities for money laundering opened up by virtual currencies, as already mentioned, but also about the exacerbation and enlargement of the criminal framework on illegal money laundering. The Left Block will participate in this discussion in the specialty and we will not fail to propose amendments, especially regarding public transparency on certain data. There is information that should not be kept in the secret of the gods or in the secret of the authorities, such as information about the last beneficiaries of the corporate structures. The market has rules and we cannot understand that someone in the market wants to hide that it owns a company. This information must be public because the public scrutiny of journalists, organizations, political parties and democracy is also important to prevent money laundering. Secondly, it is good to be aware that the fight against economic crime, from tax fraud to whitening, does not depend solely on laws. It depends on means and resources, but it also depends on the political will of governments and institutions to face economic, financial and political interests, because, Mr. Members, when the European Commission tells Portugal that it has to transpose into Portuguese law a directive on money laundering because of Luanda Leaks, we must know that it was not only Isabel dos Santos who washed money in Portugal, nor was it only EuroBic who participated in money laundering operations in Portugal. All Angolan cleptocracy washed dirty money, stolen from the people of Angola, in Portugal, under the beards of a political regime that was associated with this washing. When Manuel Vicente, one of the main figures of the Angolan regime and the theft — the theft! — of this cleptocracy, it was judicially involved in Portugal in a case of corruption — corruption, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — he did not miss anyone who wanted to take the case. Rui Machete, who was Minister of the PSD Government, apologized to the Angolan Vice-President who is now involved in these cases. Paulo Portas, from the CDS, criticized the judicialization of political relations between Portugal and Angola. Parliament refused to criticize the regime of Angolan cleptocracy, managed and led by José Eduardo dos Santos. The Portuguese regime protected money laundering that happened on everyone's beards and that everyone knew it was happening, regardless of the laws on money laundering, including the Banco de Portugal, because while the troika was here and the Portuguese population passed sacrifices there were banks to register in Portugal — the BAI, the BNI and the BPA — all with connections to politically exposed people of the Angolan regime. And everyone knew why they served these banks: they served to wash the money of the Angolan elite, and Banco de Portugal also knew, because he did the audit in 2016...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u93	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u94	... and did not need a money laundering law to ignore these audits with counter-ordination processes that are not yet known. And now, Mr President, give me a second tolerance, so that I can say that if we want to end the hypocrisy about money laundering, we will also talk, in addition to the offshores, about the golden visa regime, which is one of the tools for money laundering. We have a government transposing laws, and well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u95	Mrs. Deputy, speaking of Vissgold is never just in a second! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u96	...but that, on the other hand, has seen legal views that open the door to money laundering. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u97	I now give the floor to Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives under discussion today, in particular the proposal for a law, aim at the transposition of two Community directives. With regard to this initiative, and without calling into question the need for continuous strengthening and education of the instruments available for combating economic crime, I think it is appropriate — as has already been said — to realize that we are not starting this process today. In fact, reference has been made here to situations of the past money laundering, but it is important to note that since 2016 the Government has taken a number of initiatives on this issue that it is important to remember. I would remind everyone, for example, of the amendments made at the level of the Large Contributors Unit, which allowed us, in a very significant way, to ensure effective scrutiny and follow-up of many of the major contributors, as well as mandatory reporting measures at the level of the financial system. These are some of the measures contained in a list of diplomas which I shall not mention, because many of them have been appreciated and voted on in the Assembly of the Republic. It is also important to note that, according to the European Union, Member States already have mechanisms to implement defensive measures in the fiscal field such as non-fiscal, to avoid cross-border tax evasion and to promote tax justice. Our legal system, as I have already said, includes a set of important measures in this area and which certainly needs to be strengthened. It is urgent that this directive be transposed. And, on this matter, the delay is understood, but it is no longer understood to be called into question that it comes into force quickly. As regards other measures, the question of the actual beneficiary has already been referred here. It is an important instrument, so you have to adapt it and improve it. In fact, there are references in the bill to this matter. The set of initiatives that are also being discussed here in my perspective can be well-intentioned, but, given the current context, they focus very much on combating the social and economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the focus is essentially on taking extraordinary, urgent measures aimed at citizens and businesses, seeking to capitalize them and ensure the payment of wages, avoiding unemployment. As presented, the PCP and ENP projects limit access to many measures by a group of companies that are operating in Portugal legitimately, paying their taxes and having their status regularized.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u99	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u100	I will finish now, Mr President. In some ways, they are measures, without prejudice to the path and focus to which they try to point, which are disfigured at the moment we are. I think we will have to give answers, essentially within the Community framework. I shall finish by saying that there are a large number of hearings in this legislative procedure. I am sure that, at the end of the legislative work, we will have adequate legislation to continue to strengthen the fight against money laundering. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u101	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the laundry room of the transfers of football players, Portugal lost almost 4 million euros in 2018. Malta Files' corrections gave us almost EUR 9 million. The Free Zone of Madeira, our fiscal paradise between 2015 and 2018 has lost us 200 million euros. We do not know how much the country lost with the Panama Papers, but we know that between 2016 and 2019, for example, the United Kingdom recovered 226 million euros, Germany recovered 163 million euros and Spain recovered 146 million euros. For the NAP, of course, in the name of transparency and recovery of lost tax revenue, the fight against money laundering, tax havens and tax evasion and election must be our country's priority. However, what we have seen on the part of the Government is a lack of commitment and ambition in this area, obviously in the delay in the transposition of the fifth anti-money laundering directive, which comes to us at a time when the sixth directive is already being discussed. But, despite late and unintended, we cannot fail to welcome this proposal for transposition, which has positive aspects. We welcome, for example, the concern about the fight against risks associated with virtual currencies, which is evident in the subjection to obligations of compliance by all entities that carry out their activities on the basis of these assets or the limitation of payments in anonymous electronic currency. It is also positive that, as the directive requires, the government has considered it — it is frightening! — the golden visas focus on possible schemes of money laundering and has added the applicants of such visas to the list of potentially higher risk indicative situations, which will require greater rigour in the control of the origin of the capital invested. This shows, after all, that contrary to what they say and say PS and government, the controls that exist are not sufficient, but also alert us to the need to follow the recommendations of the European Parliament and put an end to the visasgold programme, taking into account the high risks of corruption that they entail. However, the directive could have gone further, for example by reducing the percentage of capital held for the classification as effective beneficiary — which would increase the scope of controlled customers — by increasing the controls and reporting duties on lawyers, audit firms or accountants, taking into account that these are key elements in all schemes, or by increasing the protection given to the complainants. In turn, the Government could have taken this opportunity to bring greater transparency to the Legal Regime of the Central Registry of the Effective Beneficiary, which would be achieved with the provision of easy access to the information made available and the guarantee of its availability in open date format, but also with the permission of access to any citizen of the European Union as required by the directive. These measures would facilitate the work of research journalists and civil society organisations, which, through their actions, have helped to combat the misuse of anonymous companies by criminals, terrorists and corrupts and denounce scandals such as Luanda Leaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u103	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are talking about money laundering and also about financing terrorism and today we should look at these issues as we have done with others. As regards money laundering, we compare European legislation, for example, with US legislation and compare the penalties that apply in Portugal with those that apply in countries such as Germany, France or even England. It is a pity that even dissuasors are not involved, and this has not been dealt with by the European Union. Another key point is the financing of terrorism. We continue to close our eyes to the main promoters of international terrorism, the countries we know and are the main investors of investment in Europe in the field of terrorism. We closed the door to this when, within the European Parliament, several voices were pointing their finger at Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and many other countries which, with fraudulent and artificial investments, put their terrorist projects in Europe. But this directive forgets all this and leaves virtually the way for these groups to continue to operate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u105	Sir, pay attention to your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u106	I will finish, Mr. President. Today we have a gigantic problem: the question of virtual currency. And this directive, by making a small step forward in that, little does, even compared to the United States, to tackle the problem. So we'll always stay behind in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : No entity that is based in a tax haven deserves any support from the State. This is how we are favouring and giving special offers to an employee who does not put his feet on the job. I also point out that there is a huge difference between what is effectively legal and what is moral. The fact that something is legislated, institutionally framed, does not mean that ethics and morals need to accept and normalize the existence of tax havens. Finally, I remember that the fight against the financing of terrorism and money laundering is not only economic-financial, it is also ideological.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, my microphone is damaged, so I will temporarily use the microphone that is closest, which gives a bad way that you don't imagine. Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP, the question that arises in one of the projects we have presented is not about the tax regimes that exist in other countries, but about the problem of companies that make their profits in Portugal and put their headquarters in those countries so that they can escape taxes that they should pay in Portugal and so much lack public resources. The biggest problem is that these companies can receive public support from the Portuguese State when they have not even contributed to the taxes they should pay. So this is a situation which, for us, needs to be clear in the law — some countries are already moving forward — that is, none of these companies receive any kind of support. We cannot wait for the subterfuges of the European Union that have given no answer, except for propaganda on the issue of tax havens. We need to address this problem because, when we talk about corruption, we need to take into account that it always ends in tax havens; when we talk about the need to reduce taxes, we need to see the amount of resources that are diverted to tax havens; and when we talk about the lack of capital and investment in the country, we also need to see the resources that are diverted there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u111	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u112	In the view of the CFP, this is a question of justice, of ensuring the resources of the country and the end of tax havens and of putting all possible obstacles to such regimes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u113	To conclude this point, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me, firstly, to answer the very particular questions put by Mrs Monica Quintela and Mrs Mariana Mortagua on the date of transposition of the directive and when we do so. He sincerely asked for some humility if they thought that the Portuguese Government only submitted the bill because of Luanda Leaks... [[Don't...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u115	... or after being urged by the European Commission. No, Mrs. Mariana Mortagua! The Commission for the Coordination of Prevention and Combating of Money laundering and the Financing of Terrorism has technically prepared this work by June 2019 and we have decided to include simplification measures of the Central Register of Effective Beneficiaries. I would like you to speak to me. Members could reflect on what was and what are the legislative sessions and the legislatures to understand when we are discussing this bill. There was no deliberate delay. On the Central Register of Effective Beneficiaries, we wanted to introduce and use this bill to simplify that register. Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, the data are accessible. You can register and authenticate to access this information. Let me now address the legislative initiatives that have been scheduled for drag to the Members. Deputies Duarte Alves and José Luís Ferreira. I should like to take into account that the list of non-cooperating jurisdictions in Portugal is 81 countries and the list of non-cooperating jurisdictions in those countries that have referred to is very much lower. Only to have an idea, the list of the European Union is 13. Our legal order provides, when there are transactions with non-cooperating jurisdictions, two fiscal consequences: the payment of these same transactions and the prohibition of such entities can access tax benefits.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u116	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u117	That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are all in agreement with the need for harmonisation of the tax bases. That is all that creates a fairer single market. We are all on the same side and it is important that, when we sometimes try to import measures from other countries, we can analyze the reality of these countries and our own. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u118	This concludes the second item on the agenda. We turn to the third item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of late payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic, and the Bills Nos 387 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional housing and non-residential lease scheme in the case of a proven decrease in yield and 389 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2020 of 20 April, with a view to extending the deadlines for support to families in the context of the current public health crisis, together with Resolution Projects No 427 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the scope of the support of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute in the payment of housing income under COVID-19 and 438 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the immediate suspension of payment of IMI to owners with losses of more than 20 % of income. The Bureau has so far registered members of the Liberal and PSD Initiative. I ask the other parties to indicate their registrations. [[Pause.]] However, I begin by giving the floor to the Secretary of State for Housing, Ana Pinho. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The extraordinary circumstances that we all have lived in the last two months have made clear the importance of housing, which was on the front line in the battle against the pandemic. It was a collection space, for many it was a space of convalescence and healing, it was a work space, it was a learning space, in synthesis, it was the safe haven in the most difficult moments. The measures launched in the first phase of response to the pandemic have ensured that families stay in their homes at a time when they were asked to stay at home. They also sought to ensure the necessary conditions for families to fulfil their commitments at the time of their return and not be at risk of losing their homes. Since 15 April renters and landlords with proven income breakdown may use loans from the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) to support the payment of income for the months in which the state of emergency and the following month. in this context, the IHRU has already received around 1800 loan applications in a total of 3 million and a half euros of support. As we know, although the state of emergency has already been lifted, the social and economic difficulties motivated by the pandemic will continue, and it is foreseeable that a significant number of families will still take some time to recover their financial stability. For this reason, we consider it essential that we present today to the Assembly of the Republic to extend until September the deadlines for the support granted by IHRU to the payment of public sector incomes and specific measures, as many of its tenants are particularly vulnerable families. The adverse consequences of late payment of income on the part of economic activities which are mandatoryly suspended are also avoided. I also stress that the support granted to the payment of income by IHRU is the most favourable and advantageous measure for both families and landlords. It creates conditions for families not to enter into non-compliance with their lease contracts, to regulate income in a smooth manner, over time and only after an extended period for the normalization of their professional life and economic situation, and at the same time allows the landlords to receive due income in due course. With the approval of this extension we will not only be ensuring that support for the payment of income is extended, but also that the conditions for regularization of income are comportable, even for families most affected by the health and economic crisis. We will be avoiding the emergence of new situations of housing precariousness and, above all, ensuring that the right to a condigna housing continues to be consolidated in Portugal, without any setbacks, in the path of what has been happening in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u121	Mr President, I do not know if Mr Bruno Dias will intervene first.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u122	That's right, Mrs. Deputies. To submit Bill No. 387 / XIV / 1. a, from the PCP, has the floor Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We begin our intervention in this debate in the same way as we started the debate we held at the beginning of last month, reaffirming the position of the CFP, which is very clear that the constitutional right to housing is to comply and defend. Particularly at this time, when the country faces the COVID-19 pandemic and its serious implications for the lives of Portuguese people, the adoption of the measures necessary to defend populations is of even greater importance. Law No. 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, proposed by the Government and approved in this debate for a month and a half ago, has established an exceptional regime for situations of delay in the payment of income due in urban lease contracts. Ordinance No 91 / 2020 of 14 April and an IHRU Regulation have defined the terms of access to that scheme. However, this bureaucratic process, requiring multiple documents by electronic means, has shown various problems and difficulties for many tenants and landlords of less resources. Apart from bureaucracy, there is still the concrete problem of access to these support by all those who do not cumulatively meet all the requirements, from the point of view of the issues of loss of income and the rate of effort in the terms in which it is calculated. However, we stress the central issue: this law has limited itself to pushing to an uncertain destination the future of thousands of tenants who, if they are now having difficulty paying the rent, will not, in a few months, have much more easily to pay the increased income of the debt corresponding to the loan. It is recalled that, already in the discussion of the Government's proposal that gave rise to the current law, the CFP presented several concrete proposals that maintain total currentity, from the beginning of the reduction of income values to the same percentage of the reduction of its income. The differential would be subsidised directly by the State to the owner and, in order to avoid subsidizing speculative income values, the allowance would be granted only in cases where the annual income was equal to or less than one fifteen assets of the current tax value, or even that value in higher incomes. PCP proposals were rejected with votes against PS, PSD, CDS and PAN, and IL and CH abstentions. But, being evidence that the law passed only postponed the impact of these problems, the need to resume and extend the scope of the CFP proposals in this regard is required. Thus, as regards income, value and payment, the PCP reaffirms that situations of loss of income by the tenant should not be answered with the accumulation of debt for the tenant to pay later, but rather with the proportional reduction of the income value. Not only is the situation of tenants too serious, but also that of micro and small entrepreneurs, of collectivities and of associations of culture and sport, and this requires an effective response. In other words, if the renter is to pay less income and the landlord is to be compensated by the State at the corresponding value. This is the most just solution and this is the proposal of the CFP. These are concrete and constructive proposals from the CFP, which aim to contribute to the defence of populations, especially those most vulnerable to the impact of the pandemic on the social level, in this central issue for the lives of people, which is the right to housing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u124	Now, yes, to present Bill No. 389 / XIV / 1. the PS has the floor to Mrs Marina Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members : We are discussing today a number of initiatives which, in general, aim to continue to safeguard the income of families in a period of gradual resumption of economic activity and of life in society. In parallel with the other housing initiatives, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brings the debate on the extension of a set of measures, adopted in this House, which aim to safeguard goods essential to the dignity of housing and to give greater liquidity to families. In the last two months, we all agreed with the need to define a set of responses for companies and families and, therefore, also in this House and in addition to the support that the Government has defined, we have adopted essential proposals to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. On the initiative of the Socialist Party, but also of the other parliamentary groups, important measures have been adopted here to give three examples: the possibility of recovering the savings-reform plans, the prohibition of suspension of essential services such as water, light and gas and the prohibition of unilateral suspension or termination of communications contracts in cases of unemployment, loss of income or illness. These are important measures, but whose duration is now coming to an end. In the ongoing assessment that is required of us and in the current framework where action by the State is still necessary to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the pandemic, we believe it is essential to continue to safeguard this response. Even on the draft law submitted by the Socialist Party, it is to mention the additional measure included in order to allow consumers to suspend their communications contracts by 30 September, without any burden, with a view to giving them greater liquidity in the first few months. We are talking about answers that have been discussed here and proposals that have merited a great consensus between banks. These are important measures for the family economy and therefore it is important to safeguard its exceptional extension in the coming months. I also leave a note on the proposed law: protecting housing and centralizing housing policies is a priority for the Government and for Parliament and therefore, since March, a set of measures to support families and housing have been adopted. Today, we are discussing once again the extension of the support scheme in the payment of income through IHRU loans, which brings greater protection, for two essential reasons. On the one hand, it protects small landlords whose incomes are often dependent on income, and on the other, it also protects tenants, who continue to have liquidity and, until September, to be able to use IHRU loans to pay the rents without jeopardizing the contractual lease relationship, giving them greater stability in the relationship with the landlord. We also discuss the continuity of the role of the State, through its public housing park, while guaranteeing this fundamental right, again conferring the possibility of adopting measures that mitigate the responsibilities of families as their tenants. Finally, we also discussed an important measure of extension of support for companies that are still with their outstanding activity, allowing there to be no adverse consequences of any delays in the payment of income. All of this is short-term support measures, which help mitigate the effects of a pandemic for which no one expected and whose social and economic impacts are very significant. All this is State, all this is more and better state and therefore this is the only answer we can give to the people to safeguard the economic and social conditions of our population. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u126	To present draft resolution No 427 / XIV / 1. a, from BE, has the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u127	Mr President, Secretary of State for Housing, Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defence, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament : The Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation is the only body under the protection of the central State that responds to the right to housing in Portugal. It is weak, it is true, with weak capacity of intervention or supervision, since over the years it has existed with the mere logic of granting financial support. Therefore, it does not admire the lack of information, protection and compliance with housing legislation in Portugal. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to put in place a Housing Base Act and a set of measures in the state of emergency, disaster and others, it is not enough to have a rehabilitation bank that manages some houses, there must be those who guarantee the protection of people and compliance with the law. Within the framework of the work, there is the Act for unlawful dismissal, harassment and abuse of labour law. But in the case of people who are wrongly banished from their homes, as we have seen in recent days, which state agency supports them against this illegality? Well, this entity does not exist and therefore this Left Block project proposes the strengthening of IHRU to respond to the problems that are approaching. We propose the evaluation of the constitution of an inspection body with the task of monitoring compliance with the rules on leases and the hiring of workers who guarantee the response of this institute, now and in the future. It is also to think about now and in the future that we propose the extension of the support granted by IHRU to the lease, because it is essential to cover all those who need it to maintain its housing. It is necessary to extend the deadline, so we propose extending it until 31 December, and we also propose to reduce the access effort rate to 30 % and to include family, leasers or landlords with per capita incomes of less than € 438, 81, as well as all people in unemployment. Finally — and very important! — we include those who have suspended the income payments and will not have the ability to resume them with twelfths already in July. This will be a serious problem within two months. Otherwise, we see: we know that Portugal is a low-wage country and that before the pandemic many people were already in overburdened; we know that the severe deprivation rate of housing conditions was 4, 1 % and that the overburden rate of housing expenses was 5, 7 %; and we also know that 5, 8 % of aggregates had late income payments. Mrs. Members, 33 % of aggregates — repeat, 33 %! — they did not have the capacity to ensure immediate payment of expenditure without recourse to the loan. Aren't we on the basis of these situations? Aren't we going to worsen these conditions? Mrs. Members, with the loss of income already experienced by the generality of families, we believe that it will not be difficult to predict that this acute worsening actually exists. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the extension of this support is essential for no one to be homeless and for no one to be left behind because of the loss of income resulting from the pandemic crisis. We can't leave people offline. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u128	To present draft resolution No 438 / XIV / 1. a, from the IL, has the floor Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The need for a solution is understood to allow families with more difficulties to continue to pay their housing income. It is also understood the need for another solution, in relation to businesses with more difficulties, for the payment of non-residential income. What is not understood is that there is, once again, children and children. It is that during the duration of this scheme, where renters were allowed not to pay the rents, much of the landlords became unprotected. After many families lost some of their income due to this regime, some understanding was expected on the part of the State. But that understanding did not come. What arrived was a letter from the AT ( Tax Authority ) requesting the payment of the IMI ( municipal property tax ). The Liberal Initiative initially proposed the exemption of IMI for Portuguese particularly affected by this crisis, which was rejected. We then presented in March a draft resolution which provided for an exemption from this tax for landlords whose renters had not paid their rents, which was rejected again, with the votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN and ENP. We don't give up. Today, the draft resolution we are presenting is the minimum that must be done by these people. This is a moratorium allowing owners who lost 20% of their income to divide the payment of the IMI in 12 months, without interest or fine. In the background, it is the exact mirror of the measure that was approved for housing leasers. I repeat that, for us, this measure is the minimum aid to whom, during the pandemic, it ensured that other families did not lose their ceiling or other establishments that ensured their livelihood. In order for this draft resolution to be adopted once again, there should be no children and no children.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u130	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Marcia Passos of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In time of pandemic, an exceptional regime has been created for those who have difficulties in paying income. At the time, I remember, we had serious reservations about the regime because we understood that it could have been more fair and not leave unprotected, as it has left, some lords and some tenants. The PSD warned, by various means, that it was urgent to correct the inequalities created by this regime. The Government cannot create support schemes that encourage those who do not pay because it does not want to pay. Support cannot encourage non-compliance. It is not possible for the tenant to simply stop paying and not even inform the landlord. It is that this lack of information prevents the landlord himself from resorting to the support of IHRU. This is unreasonable. And it is not reasonable to leave the landlords in the hands of the tenants and to take or not take certain attitudes. On the other hand, the Government and this House must realize that, in the rentals of cafes, restaurants and other establishments, there is often a landlord who is a natural person and is a citizen, like so many others, for whom the income he receives is the only source of income of his family. It's not fair to forget these lords. And the regime that has been created completely separates them from any support just because the place they have rented is not a home. It is not understandable, it is not justifiable, it is not balanced! These are imbalances that we want to correct. Therefore, the PSD presented a proposal for an amendment to the Government's proposal. The PSD wants the landlords whose family aggregate depends on income to be entitled to the same support, whether the property is housed or the property is another establishment or has any other non-residential purpose. The PSD wants the relations between landlords and tenants, particularly in time of pandemic, to be clear so that everyone knows what support they can ask for and when they can ask for it. We will not be against extending support by September or, if necessary, for longer. But we cannot be in favour of incentives for non-compliance or for regimes that discriminate against Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u132	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this intervention by stressing and monitoring the content of the draft resolution brought here by the Liberal Initiative, a concern which the CDS also has with regard to the landlords and what is the weight of the IMI. For our part, we had already presented something in this regard, establishing a moratorium on the payment of the IMI for these gentlemen. The Government today brings here a proposal to extend the deadline for payment of income for non-residential urban leases until 1 September 2020. This mainly applies to trade and industry. And here's a goal of creating a strike for renters, for renters. The CDS argues that this should always be an effort shared between landlords and tenants and that there is also a role of the State. It has already been recalled in this debate, and well, that many gentlemen have as their only income what their heritage and the income they have taken from the same heritage, which is also the income of their families. The CDS therefore submits an amendment to this proposal for a law, which is no longer the same as applying the same principle that exists for housing leases to non-residential leases, and which goes precisely because the tenants of this non-residential lease can also make use of IHRU funding in the same terms that already exist for housing leases. And we also challenge the government: that it can also consider another strike within the time limits that exist for these same loans. But to understand also what the real economy is, in practice, I would like to bring here an example: that of a restaurant that has been closed for three months, that resumes its activity, that has its employees in layoff and that, as a result, cannot make any dismissal. And, after having been in that period without paying income, the first income you will have to pay now will have an increase of 28 %, i.e. another twelfth of the income you have not been able to bear, i.e. this restaurant, by the imposition of the state itself, can only have 50 % of its occupation, but it will continue to have the same energy costs and will have to keep the same staff. Now, there is no economy, there is no equation, there is no margin to allow these companies to continue to operate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u134	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u135	I will finish, Mr. President. And I appreciate the tolerance. And the same will happen in September. The bars, the gyms, when they resume their activity in September, will have these same difficulties. Therefore, in this case there must be an intervention by the State. Otherwise, companies will not stand by and we will have thousands of insolvencys and thousands of unemployed. The appeal we make to the Government — and with this end, Mr President — is that Minister Mário Centeno stops the seizures and that, once and for all, there are substantial support for these companies, which they need so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u136	For an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin by leaving a word of great solidarity with all those who have lost their homes, their rooms and especially those to whom these measures will not benefit, i.e. individuals who, being in an informal situation, have not benefited from any incentive and no support from the state until today, even in a pandemic environment. It is obvious that these measures would need to spread. This is because the economic consequences of this pandemic have strengthened the enormous difficulties that existed before and will lead to the fact that, within a year, a year and a half, two and eight years old, there are still thousands of families with immense difficulties in access to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u138	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u139	Obviously, I will vote in favour of these initiatives because, in an environment like this, that is the minimum we need to do in order to safeguard housing, which is a human right and, as is known, constitutional.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u140	For an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) leads us to draw several conclusions. On the one hand, the Government recognises the serious health situation in which we still find ourselves, with the continuation of new cases of infection in our country and the unforeseeable outcome of this health crisis. But on the other hand, the government wants to force the return to normal at all costs, as if it depended on any legislative impulse. This is easily perceptible when we find that we are trying to give a certain and determined deadline for the end of the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of tenants, as if, at a distance of several months, we could see with rigour the evolution of the virus that afflicts us all. When addressing the issue of the protection of tenants, account must also be taken of the social and economic situation of the country, due to the tremendous impacts generated by the COVID-19. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security said yesterday that the unemployment rate increased 22, 1 % in the month of April in terms of counterparts and that at present almost 400 000 people are registered in employment centres, i.e. on average 1615 people per day have lost their jobs. The scenario is particularly worrying when we know that there are now about 2 million people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. We simply look at the data provided by the Food Bank against Hunger, according to which, since the beginning of this health crisis, some 15 000 applications for aid have already arrived covering almost 60 000 people, and the Caritas said that they had 48 000 new people in need of support. These numbers are worrying and show us that we are living a social emergency, which is imposing enormous difficulties and sacrifices on people and which, contrary to what we think, is not over. It is urgent to take measures to ensure greater social protection for citizens in situations of greater social fragility. For the NAP, the exceptional rental conditions should be directly related to the time period in which the state of calamity, to which it must necessarily add another, which we propose for three months, and which we consider reasonable for society to adapt to the return to new normality. Finally, we cannot fail to express our satisfaction at the fact that other parties have joined the NAP claim to support also the landlords in non-residential lease contracts. The big difference is that the NAP put forward proposals in April and the CDS and PSD not only voted against these same proposals as they have now remembered the importance of supporting these gentlemen, now that the difficulties are beginning to be overcome and that the establishments begin to reopen. The result was that they made it impossible to give these gentlemen fundamental help at a time when they needed it most. That help will certainly be welcome, but it is already long overdue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u142	You now have the floor to Ms. Secretary of State for Housing, Ana Pinho, to waste the time she still has.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make a few clarifications, because I think that some issues are unclear, one of which is that this extension of IHRU's support covers the situation of all the tenants who have chosen to delay payment of rents to the landlords. Therefore, they are covered by this enlargement, they can make use of it and we wanted to raise awareness and appeal to everyone to do so, because, by resorting to this support, they have at least six months of short term to pay and then very soft benefits. I would also like to say that the bill adopted in this House already provides that, in order to make use of this scheme, the advice of the gentlemen is compulsory. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposal presented here implies that the extension of IHRU's support, only with regard to housing lease, allows housing owners to have their situation fully normalized from this point of view. That is, IHRU's support is exactly for the income to be paid. I think it was important to provide these three clarifications, safeguarding that those who have been late so far can now turn to this support and regularize everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u144	I now give the floor to waste the time available to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, this debate is an opportunity and responsibility for the government and political parties, because the very serious situation that is placed not only on many thousands of workers in relation to housing but also on small and micro-enterprises in relation to the situation of non-inhabitation requires a more effective response than that given by the government or even by the PSD. It is important to say that the concern that you are concerned about. Members of the PSD and the CDS declare here, in relation to the gentlemen, that they did not have it when they dropped the PCP proposal which protected the situation of the landlords—but those who did not enter situations of speculation and speculative incomes, and I do not know if that is the difference that separates us—and what now appears as the PSD proposal and which aggravates the situation of tenants, putting even more restrictions...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u146	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u147	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PSD proposal aggravates the situation of tenants, placing even more restrictions, with the widespread suspicion cloak that they raise in relation to tenants, as if they were the problem that is put here. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the perspective that is set by both the government and the PSD is clearly insufficient and we need to take a step forward, indeed moving forward for effective and real solutions, such as those of the CFP project. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u148	Mr Marina Gonçalves of the PS also has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very telegraphically, I would like to say that, unlike the Secretary of State, I do not think there has been a misunderstanding of the benches on my right as to the perception of the regime we are approving here. There wasn't one word for renters! All the measures that you have taken. Members on my right have brought to the debate were for the protection of the gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u150	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u151	... but we agree with measures of balance between the protection of landlords and tenants and that is exactly what we are approving here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u152	Against the lodgers!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u153	Mrs Marcia Passos, the proposal presented by the PSD, contrary to what we adopted in this Chamber two weeks ago, provides for the possibility of expiry and termination of the contract in the event of non-compliance with the leaser, at a stage where there is a loss of liquidity, loss of income and, in many cases, unemployment. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, that is what distinguishes us in this debate and I do not think it is a mistake, it is even an ideological difference with respect to what our view of leases, the right to housing and the social state is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u154	You now have the floor, too, to waste the time you still have, Mrs Marcia Passos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly and only as an answer, I would like to tell Mrs Marina Gonçalves and Mr Bruno Dias that this is not what separates us. That's not it! What separates us is the fact that the benches on our left have a stigma when it comes to gentlemen. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u156	Read the PCP project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u157	Yes, they do! We want to protect the renters and protect the leasers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u158	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u159	... but we cannot allow, for example, an 80-year-old landlord to be supported if he has a housing lease and is completely unprotected if his leaser is a commercial establishment. This is not reasonable, because this family deserves the same protection.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u160	Read our project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when the debate is running out, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary of State for Trade, Consumer Services and Defence, João Torres, for the closing intervention. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the Government submits today to the Assembly of the Republic has provisions relating to renting of a housing nature, which was shared here by the Secretary of State for Housing, and also has provisions with regard to non-inhabitation. Since the first hour, in the context of COVID-19, I believe that the government's signs have been very clear, showing sensitivity to the situation of businesses and families. And I take advantage of the closure of this debate to make an allusion to our economic operators, in particular to establishments typically open to the public, to trade, to the provision of services and to restoration, and also, in particular, to micro-enterprises and small enterprises in these sectors, which have contributed both to the growth of the economy and to the generation of jobs over the past few years. From the first hour, the Government, in the context of the COVID-19, proposed the suspension until 30 June of expiry and opposition to the renewal of non-residential lease contracts. It also proposed the deferral of payment of overdue income, if there were, for establishments which, by legislative or administrative determination, had closed or suspended their activity. Now, what we propose, also in the light of what was the timing presented by the Government in the context of lifting the suspension of economic activities, is to extend this protection, in particular as regards the non-residential lease, for the establishments, for the economic activities on which there is still a legislative or administrative decision impeding the operation of these economic operators. I would therefore like to transmit, Mr President, to the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are doing today is basically the extension of a measure that has already existed in the state of emergency and in the first month of...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u163	Mr. Secretary of State, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u164	... for the activities they maintain, let us say, their closure, by virtue of a measure of a legislative and administrative nature,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u165	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u166	... without prejudice to continuing to monitor, permanently and in dialogue with the associations of the sector, the very specific circumstances which are now in place for the economic activities and economic operators of our country in the area of non-residential rent. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u167	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 32 / XIV / 1. a, of Bill Nos 387 / XIV / 1. a and 389 / XIV / 1. a and Resolution Projects Nos 427 / XIV / 1. a and 438 / XIV / 1. a. Let us now proceed to the examination of Petition No 537 / XIII / 3. a (Luís Alberto Júdice Veiga da Silva et al.) — Calls for the repeal of Chapter VI of Title I of Book II of the Criminal Code on crimes against honor. For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us, of course, begin by greeting the petitioners. The petition brought to us today seeks to repeal the chapter of the Criminal Code that integrates crimes against honor and, despite the concern it brings us, is based on the case of a citizen who is serving effective prison sentence for having committed crimes of defamation and injury, bringing to the colloquium so many other cases of judicial proceedings involving journalists and lawyers. However, we should not start a specific case in order to do a more generalist analysis, qualifying the tree-based forest, until on the other hand there are situations that need support in the rules the repeal of which is proposed here. Both freedom of expression and the right to good name, reputation and image present, in fact, a constitutional consecration, in the category of rights, freedoms and personal guarantees, with the same legal value and, therefore, without abstract hierarchy between themselves. As such, we often face the collision of these two rights, and, depending on the situation, there will be a smaller or greater compression of one of the rights in crisis. Of course, there may be times when there is a withdrawal from the legal-criminal protection of honor, justified by the correct use of freedom of expression, measured by the general interest. However, freedom of expression is not, in itself, absolute and unbalanced, since we often encounter cases where this freedom is extravagant, placing the good name and reputation of a particular individual or entity in an irrecoverable harmful position. They are situations that have, and must possess, criminal dignity, and this assessment is appropriate to the courts. I am sure that there will be many processes based on minor issues that encounter our courts, which have not, for many years, sufficient resources to decide rapidly. However, this scenario leads to a problem of a completely different nature than today's petition brings to the home of democracy. The problem, in this respect, is the lack of resources and conditions of the judiciary, which must be strengthened and which, in the face of these limitations, cannot resolve criminal proceedings in a swift manner, protecting its resolution for years at a time, which must not happen. However, it is neither reasonable nor proportionate, in our view, to purge, without further, the chapter of crimes against the honour of the Criminal Code, precisely because this path would cause it to cease to protect situations, also unqualifying, particularly the cases covered by the aggravated crimes of defamation and injury, which are an example of the offense committed by means of means or in circumstances that facilitate its disclosure, the committing of crime through the media or even injury against officials of authority. We therefore believe that, in fact, the chapter on crimes against honor should not be repealed without a previous reflection on the one which is the need to revisit the Criminal Code and even less without any rules that can in any way meet the one which is its current guardianship, since the right to honour and freedom of expression are consistent with the rights in the same hierarchical plane, but it is up to the courts to address the facts that involve the specific cases in which there is a confrontation between these two rights and to examine them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u169	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u170	I conclude now, Mr President. We conclude by reiterateing that in this plan this reflection must necessarily take place in the judiciary, however, not failing to greet the petitioners for the fair concern they brought to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u171	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words of the PSD are to welcome the defence of freedom of expression to this House and therefore thank the authors of the petition who have provided us with a moment of reflection on a topic which, for us, is absolutely relevant. Given this, in the evaluation of the PSD and taking into account that what is at stake here is the abolition, without more, of an entire chapter of the Criminal Code, relating to crimes against honour, more specifically articles 180. o 189. that of the Criminal Code, the PSD intends to clarify, from now on, that it does not understand that freedom and honor are incompatible, on the contrary, trivializing the defense of honour would dishonor freedom. This manifestation of attachment, in this modality, would be almost a kind of « bear embrace», i.e. in honor of the defense of freedom of expression, allowing defamation, injury, slander, etc. , it would be causing an effect contrary to what is intended, which we do not think is acceptable. It would be almost like transforming freedom into a predator of honor. Now, as I have already said, there is no kind of incompatibility here. Moreover, with this signal, there could be a multiplier effect. We also draw attention to the fact that, with the massification of access to social networks, the possibility of paying attention to people's honour has been facilitated and expanded, which must also be taken into account. It should be noted here that these crimes can be punished with a penalty of fine, which can even be symbolic, and that, under certain circumstances, there may even be no penalty. But even if, in some cases on the spot, there is the application of disproportionate penalties, too, to do what is intended in this petition, it would be to amend an error by making another mistake. The right to good name and reputation has constitutional protection, constitutional dignity. And it was said by Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that there was, more or less, an equality between principles and values here. I think not, with due respect. I believe that the protection of the dignity of the person, of human life is pyramidal and, in a hierarchy, overlaps with any right, that is, all other rights, duties and principles must obey the rule that the dignity of human life is above any other assumption. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u173	Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This petition gives us a relevant reflection, insofar as no initiatives are under discussion that have been submitted by any parliamentary group to follow the petition. What the petitioners of the two petitions are discussing — the theme is the same, although with relatively different objects — is a radical solution, that is, they believe that, in the name of freedom of expression, all the legal protection of honor and good name should be sacrificed. They therefore believe that, in the name of freedom of expression, there should be no crime of defamation or injury and that such crimes should be removed from the Portuguese Criminal Code. What we think is that there must be fair compatibility between both values in the presence, i.e. between the protection of freedom of expression, which is a fundamental right, of course, but without forgetting that there are values such as the defence of the good name of citizens against injury and defamation that cannot be underestimated in the Portuguese legal order. from that point of view, we do not follow the petitioners in what they actually propose. There are aspects that need to be taken into account, in particular the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which gives great attention to the need for the protection of freedom of expression, which is a fair concern. In fact, the rapporteur of 1. the Commission on this petition draws attention to — and well — and raises a very interesting reflection from this point of view. It is also important to know whether, in particular, public office holders should have special protection for other citizens. This is a relevant issue and, from our point of view, there should not be such protection, that is, of course, it must be recognized that, for a public office holder, a reputational damage or defamation, in particular if they are spread through social communication or social networks, when they are found unfounded, can cause a very serious reputational damage. But for another person who also has a public reputation to defend, even if he is not a public official, he can also cause very serious damage, especially in the case of an entrepreneur, a lawyer or a citizen whose reputation may have catastrophic consequences not only for his good name but also for his professional career. This issue of not having a special worsening because of belonging to a public office is an interesting reflection and which, perhaps, in future revisions of our legal-penal order, can be effectively revisited, but we do not follow the idea that it must be furnished of the Portuguese legal order the protection of the good name of people against defamation, knowing now the capacity that exists to slander through social networks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u175	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u176	Mr. President, I'll be done right away. And also the ability to defame, especially because of the vulnerability that social networks cause in the face of the spread of false news, through, finally, robotic forms and artificial multiplication, can cause serious damage to reputations for which legal order cannot remain indifferent. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PSD Member Luís Marques Guedes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u177	Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Compliance, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, the signatories of both petitions. The right to honor, to good name, to dignity, to the preservation of the public image of each one is an interest worthy of the protection of the law and there should be no doubt about that. The question is whether criminal protection is the best, more balanced and effective one, to guarantee such protection. It is a difficult issue, especially in a time of use of social networks by militias of political murder and character, often covering the cowardice of false profiles. A little across Europe, the trend seems to be towards the decriminalization of injury and defamation. The case law of the European Court of Human Rights has consistently fuelled this dynamism by invariably giving precedence to freedom of expression and by condemning several Member States, such as Portugal, for more than 20 times, for violation of Article 10. that of the European Convention, by internal judicial decisions in which this freedom of expression was preferred. In the view of the Left Block, the injury of honour, good name and public image is clearly illegal, but it is not, from our point of view, socially useful to maintain injury and defamation in the crime catalogue, because the fight against canalice is more effective, so we think, through civil and/or counter-ordinational actions. But we want to be clear: we do not follow the view of those who move only, or above all, against the aggravated forms of these current crimes claiming that the holders of political and high public positions must subject themselves to everything in the name of a mild understanding of the duty of transparency, which, for them, easily confuses itself with a nearly duty of subjection to public humiliation. We affirm here our willingness to decriminalize injury and defamation and reaffirm our commitment to face populist speeches which, in this matter as in all others, always aim to attack democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u179	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u180	Mr President, recognizing the relevance of the subject proposed here, I would like to say, as soon as the first consideration of opening the CDS on this issue, that this is a bit of a bit of a misunderstanding with an idea that we always defend, which is that we should not make serious reviews, surgical reviews or revisions that do not take into account the overall framework of criminal matters. Even more in this case, as has been said here, by removing a chapter from the Penal Code, which, from our point of view, would not be the best option or the best technique. Secondly, I would like to say that, in view of the values protected in criminal matters in the Portuguese legal system, the question is obvious: should the right to good name, honor and consideration be matters of criminal protection or not? Our response from this point of view is very direct and objective: this must be matters with protection and criminal protection. I would say that — you will understand the honourable Members. Members who do not escape from a vision, perhaps more conservative in this matter - I think the right to honor is a fundamental right for any citizen. I would even say that the earlier concept of honesty, the more scarce it is, must be, in other words, if there is a concept that deserves, and should deserve, protection in today's world is precisely that old concept of honesty. On the other hand, there is also a assumption in these petitions that we do not follow, which is the idea that the holders of political and high-level positions of the State are more protected. They are not and are precisely on the contrary: precisely because they are more exposed, they are easier targets and, therefore, they have no protection other than the generality of the citizens, who often see them as such an obvious target. Another issue that has already been addressed here, particularly in the last two speeches we have heard, and which is not irrelevant, is the question of the moment we are living, because there is also a certain assumption in this petition, which I do not follow, that it will be less relevant today to have this protection. Don't! It is precisely in these days, in which very difficult tools are used to fight and control, especially using the corporate networks, the fake news, it is of course very important that there is criminal protection for those who have the right to defend themselves, of course, to defend themselves. Different is freedom of expression and, in this case, the appeal must be for common sense. It is clear that I follow from this point of view what Mr. José Manuel Pureza has said, although he tells you, Mr. Deputies, that I do not know whether your party, your parliamentary group and its leaders will be very willing to appeal to those who attract the first stone, because this history, these attacks, in this matter, have already come from several sides and who have no responsibilities in this matter which attracts the first stone. I don't think this could be the case with the Left Block, and this seems quite obvious to me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u181	Sir, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u182	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the basis of balance we have between these values is reasonable, the application in general is not burdensome and there are other courts, such as the European Court, which will make their own supervision. Therefore, obviously appealing to those for whom the defence of honor and also freedom of expression are important, we do not follow this idea of removing from the Criminal Code the right to good name and honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u183	I now give the floor to Mrs Cláudia Santos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by welcoming the more than 8675 citizens who have subscribed to the petition that today leads us to reflect on a model of protection of freedom of expression, on the one hand, and of honour, on the other hand, which avoids the annihilation of each of the values in conflict and which saves the essential core of each of them. The petitioners want, as has already been said, to revoke the entire chapter of the Criminal Code on crimes against honor, i.e. to decriminalize the offenses to honour, including injury and defamation, even when the circumstances of publicity and slander which, in accordance with the law in force, cause the penalties to be aggravated. The petitioners base their claim on the idea that among us there is excessive protection of honour, with damage to freedom of expression and against article 10. that of the European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. excessive protection of honour, on the one hand, and mirror protection of freedom of expression on the other. This view may be accompanied, but certainly only to a certain extent. Criminal law must in fact limit its intervention to the minimum necessary and it is known that there are other instruments, sometimes more effective, for the protection of the values that must be protected. Honor is a value that must be protected—and this is an idea that deserves to be emphasized—but in some cases it can be protected by other forms, in particular through non-contractual civil liability or, possibly, the right of counter-ordination. If this is a statement that, without much hesitation, we may be able to make about the less serious modalities of attack on honour, the same will no longer be said of the most serious offenses, i.e., there are certain attacks on honour whose criminalization we cannot yet abandon, unless we put a drastic reduction in many other criminal offences. I will give some examples of these more serious offenses to honour: firstly, the slanderous accusation of false facts, not mere opinions or judgment of value, in order to condition the functioning of democratic institutions, for example through false news; secondly, the defamations or insults that integrate psychological ill-treatment in domestic violence crimes; thirdly, defamations or discriminatory insults based on belonging to minority or traditionally disadvantaged groups. Regarding the most serious forms of attack on honor, caution is imposed, especially in a criminal system that continues to criminalize, for example, the introduction into a closed place to the public or the public apology of a crime. The special part of a Criminal Code is a repository of the values to which given society attributes primacy and therefore any criminal or decriminalizing option also presupposes comparative judgments. Schopenhauer believed — and with this ending — that the true knowledge of his own value would make each person truly indifferent to insult, but no one is an island, nor should it be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u185	As there are no more entries for interventions at this agenda item, we are discussing the same. We move on to the next item on our agenda, which is from the assessment of Petition No 561 / XIII / 4. a ( André Lourenço e Silva et al.) — By hiring Portuguese Gestive Language Interpreters for the National Health Service, together with Resolution Projects Nos 214 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government contract Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service, 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of gestal-language interpreters for public services and 210 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the access of deaf people to the National Health Service. To present draft resolution No. 214 / XIV / 1. a, I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza, from BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate all those who, with their signature, have asked Members to be interpreters of their sense of urgency and priority, demanding that Portuguese gestal-language interpreters be hired for the National Health Service, and I take advantage to compliment the Portuguese gestual interpreters team of the Canal Parliament and all the professionals of the interpretation of the Portuguese gestual language. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen... [[At the moment, BE José Manuel Pureza spoke to the Chamber in Portuguese.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I realize the strangeness of those who have followed me, perhaps because of my total lack of manner in this matter. After all, I have expressed myself in the last few seconds in a way which is not understandable to the overwhelming majority of you and which prevents communication between us. I am sorry to tell you that this strangeness and this revolt are precisely the condition in which thousands of deaf people are found every day in the public services they use to deal with the essential issues of their lives. They speak to them in a language they cannot access. They are raped and harmed in their basic rights; these deaf people are not understood in what they ask, ask or claim using the Portuguese gestual language. In fact, what I told you recently, in my unfortunate Portuguese gesture phrase, was only "we need Portuguese gestal interpreters in public services". This is in a very special way in the National Health Service, in this greater place of our democracy: deaf people have no one to speak to them in the language they understand, nor those who understand their emergencies or the expression of their sufferings. For some, this is possible by lip reading, but the mandatory use of masks, in the context of the fight against the pandemic, made this possibility impossible. The urgency of hiring Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service was long before yesterday. It was even approved in the State Budgets for 2019 and 2020, but it is concerned not to be realized with the determination that the rights of deaf people demand and that the COVID-19 pandemic became even more imperative. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the Left Block has been recommending to the Government: to hire Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the SNS, so that the service of these professionals is made available in all health units. [[At the moment, BE José Manuel Pureza spoke to the Portuguese Chamber again.]] I have just done two simple gestures, which mean: "It is democracy that demands it. » And it really is! [[Congratulations from BE, having Mrs Maria Manuel Rola applauded in Portuguese gestual language, and by the Member of the PS Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u187	Mr. José Manuel Pureza... [[At the moment, the President addressed the honourable Member of BE José Manuel Pureza in Portuguese Gestal.]] I have just thanked Mr José Manuel Pureza for speaking in Portuguese. To present draft resolution No 285 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We address a greeting to the Portuguese Federation of Associations of the Deaf and to all the subscribers of this petition that we have discussed and that demands the hiring of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service. The petition states that « the accessibility of disabled people to public services is not yet fully ensured, and in particular the conditions for access by deaf people to the National Health Service are not guaranteed. Deaf people have great difficulty communicating with health professionals, not having Portuguese-language interpreters hospitals to make this contact. It is a just concern that we accompany. It is therefore proposed by the CFP in the draft resolution that brings the debate that the Government should hire Portuguese gestal interpreters to ensure that deaf people have access to public services, assuming as a priority the recruitment of these professionals within the National Health Service, and that, together with the organizations representing disabled people, especially the deaf community, should implement other measures to access the deaf community to different public services. In addition to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, it is up to the State to protect and value the Portuguese gestual language, as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities, the Portuguese gestual language is also an instrument for the integration of deaf people, in the fight against inequalities and exclusion, and a means of expression and overcoming the barriers of communication that still persist. The absence of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters in health centres, hospitals, access to courts, financial or social security balconies, among other public services, who can provide proper support and follow-up to deaf people who travel to these services makes it more difficult to access them by deaf people. It has recently been visible — and it is visible — that difficulty in the inaccessibility of deaf people to information and to the request for help in the context of the outbreak, which leaves deaf people in a situation of greater fragility. It is therefore necessary once and for all to solve these problems, to overcome the remaining constraints and to take the necessary measures to ensure a set of rights for deaf people, on equal terms, in access to public services, and to put an end to discrimination. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u189	To present draft resolution No 210 / XIV / 1. a, has the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners for drawing attention to this subject and for giving us the opportunity to discuss it. We are talking about ensuring the access of deaf people to the National Health Service and I cannot help but notice that, unfortunately, deaf people today have been unable to come to the Assembly of the Republic because they have not been guaranteed here a gesture-language interpreter. Nevertheless, I comply with Portuguese gestal interpreters who are making it possible to access deaf people through the Channel of Parliament. The NAP fully accompanies these concerns and demands of the petitioners, and therefore we bring a draft resolution to the debate. There are already several NAP initiatives in these areas, which aim, in essence, to fight for the rights of people with some disability, in the most various areas, with the clear objective of building a truly inclusive society. We have, in fact, come to warn of the many limitations these people face in their daily lives. The accessibility of deaf people to all public services is not yet guaranteed, but today we highlight access to the National Health Service, particularly due to the presence of Portuguese gestal interpreters. We know that there are some experiences at the level of video-interpretation in Portuguese gestal language, but besides not covering the entire national territory, they depend on internet connection and have been recorded errors in images, so we believe that this service should be understood as complementary. The truth is that, without the follow-up of the gestal-language interpreter, communication with the deaf person is done by health professionals in writing or by gestures, which prevents her from correctly expressing her symptoms, impermissible, conditioning or hindering the diagnosis. In many cases, in order to ensure this communication, the deaf person is accompanied by an interpreter, paid for himself, but because of his or her essentiality, and under the penalty of breach of the principle of equality, we understand that the presence of interpreter should be ensured by the State, and obviously it should not be the deaf person to have to pay this cost. Recognizing this need, in the State Budget for 2019 and in the State Budget for 2020 it was registered on a proposal from the NAP that the Government would contract 25 Portuguese gestal-language interpreters. We have to do it! We are also particularly concerned about the fulfilment of supply contracts and the Framework Agreement for the Provision of Interpreter and Translation Services in the Health Area, considering it is essential that the Government not only encourages them as it has disclosed them. Finally, I would like to say, in conclusion, Mr President, that the MAI112 application was indeed a very important step in enabling the deaf population to have a privileged channel and that, recognizing its importance, when preparing this project in January, the NAP understood that it should be extended to other medical emergency lines, such as the INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) and the Health Line 24. We learned that the INEM line was assured three days ago and that the Health Line 24 was assured in mid-April and therefore only there, the recommendations of the NAP were already worth it. [[PAN applause in Portuguese Gestive Language.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u191	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cláudia Bento, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, the more than 4100 citizens who have subscribed to this petition, in which the Government is requested to hire Portuguese-speaking interpreters for the National Health Service. in a context where there is great concern about the integration and inclusion of people with disabilities, it is our responsibility to implement measures to make accessibility, inclusion and equal opportunities effective. The Portuguese gestual language must be recognized and dignified by its real status, as a language of the deaf community, which allows access to information, communication and education. As the Portuguese gestual language recognized in the Constitution as a cultural expression and instrument of access to education and equal opportunities, it is not, in fact, conceived that public institutions, especially in the case of health services, do not offer deaf people interpreters or professionals capable of communicating with them. Not adapting services to the needs of minority groups is a social exclusion factor. In Portugal, despite an increasing sensitivity to the need for greater integration of deaf people, the truth is that concrete measures are scarce and, worse, inconsequential. Thus, for example, although in the State Budget for 2019, before the COVID19 pandemic, the recruitment of gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service was foreseen, this was not carried out. Currently, in 2020, the State Budget once again considers the same standard, proposing again the hiring of 25 gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service. However, we are almost mid-year and the country is waiting again for the government to do what it has not done in the last year and a half, i.e. to meet the request in the petition and meet what the State Budget determines for the second time. This issue of hiring gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service is not irrelevant. It is that, despite the difficulties encountered in the communication process between the deaf community and the professionals of the National Health Service, the hiring of these interpreters will undoubtedly improve the accessibility of the deaf community to health services, will increase the quality of the services provided and will certainly contribute to more humanized care. It is good not to forget that the National Health Service has its own reason for being in the citizens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u193	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it is becoming clear that we all agree that it is essential to facilitate the integration of deaf people into the listening world. For this to happen it is necessary to recognize its linguistic specificity, that I do not master as well as Mr José Manuel Pureza — not master at all! — and also to understand and accept that the full inclusion of the deaf person is, in fact, recognizing its linguistic difference and not its disability. It is estimated that about 80 000 people with hearing impairment will be deaf. These people, as indicated by the petition, which is subscribed by more than 4,000 subscribers, face real barriers when they access public services, since then the SNS, accessibility barriers and barriers to being understood and perceived. Some steps have indeed been taken — we must recognise it — in the removal of these barriers. The SNS Security has already been mentioned here, which allows deaf people to ask for help by sending an SMS, with geolocation service, and, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the SNS24 began to have a new feature for deaf people via videotape, the same as recently happening with the INEM line. Even today, Mr. José Manuel Pureza, I became aware of a company in Leiria, which is producing transparent masks specifically addressed to the community of deaf people who resort to lip reading—not everything is lost in the business world, Mr. Member! [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] We recognize, however, that there is still a way to reach the full accessibility of deaf people to the SNS, knowing that technology has already proved that it can help to achieve this access efficiently and effectively, and therefore the CDS will approve all projects that are currently in the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u195	Mr Anabela Rodrigues, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Being the exercise of the right of petition, as an instrument of democratic political participation, a laudable expression of citizenship, I greet, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the subscribers of the petition requesting the hiring of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service, thus ensuring the presence of these in all hospitals in order to ensure the accessibility of deaf people to the National Health Service. They also consider it urgent to create the conditions of accessibility to emergency number 112 and emergency services. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group accompanies all the detailed concerns and recognises the total importance of the Portuguese gestual language. I also say this on the basis of those who are the commitments already made, whether in the Government Programme, which provides « to disseminate the Portuguese gestual language and ensure its effective availability in public services(...) and to ensure the accessibility of all the sites and applications of decentralized service of the Public Administration » ; or also in the State Budget for 2020, where the hiring of gestal-language interpreters for the coverage of hospitals and / or health centres is expected. It will be important to note that the Socialist Party has been on its way in order to respond to the needs and inclusion of deaf or hearing impaired people, but certainly the path is not around here and there is a commitment to continue this journey. I can only point out that at this time of pandemic, specific responses to emergency services have been created. The National Health Service has made available the video call service platform for deaf citizens, who counts, in the service, with Portuguese gestal-language interpreters in mediation between the user and the contact center professional, for 24 hours a day. It will also be important to note that this service can also be used by professionals in health centres or hospitals, when a deaf citizen goes to the services or in situations of hospital admissions. This is an extremely important initiative in terms of inclusion, since these citizens can now fully access the service, which demonstrates once again this Government's commitment to continue to ensure that deaf citizens can have access to public services and further strengthen the spirit of accessibility and equity of the national health system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u197	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u198	I will finish, Mr. President. We understand the underlying concern of the draft resolutions and we agree with the priority of this response, but we must not fail to stress the redundancy of the recommendations, which go precisely towards what is already expressly envisaged in the State budget and the commitment set out for the legislature and included in the Government Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u199	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecologist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens greet the petitioners, especially those who had no other way of expressing themselves by hiring Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service. The Portuguese gestual language must be recognized and dignified by its real status, as the first language of the deaf community. In 1954, the General Conference of the United Nations stated that forcing a group to use a language other than its contribution so that this group, the victim of a ban, is becoming more and more separated from national life. Social inclusion in the area of health, particularly the deaf community, goes through the implementation of technological solutions that facilitate access to more elementary care. However, it is essential to increase accessibility for deaf people in hospitals, health centres and all public services. However, such solutions do not really respond when care, in a hospital or emergency context and in health centers and others, is unsuitable and, necessarily, more direct. Thus, in these contexts, technological solutions do not replace the personalized support provided by a Portuguese gestual language interpreter that ensures immediate communication between users and health professionals. Portuguese gestal interpreters play a key role in the accessibility and social inclusion of the deaf community with regard to access to health care and are therefore essential. That is why the ENP proposed in the State budget for 2020 the hiring of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for public services, especially for health and education, but it was not approved. The Greens are also concerned about the fulfilment of the framework agreement and supply contracts concluded under it. As we know, there will be situations of total absence of requests from Portuguese-language interpreters by agencies of the Ministry of Health or any SNS entities. Despite timid advances, the truth is that deaf people's accessibility to public services is not guaranteed, with enormous barriers in communication. In this respect, the Greens still want to leave here another important aspect to ensure everyone's right to the gesture language: respect for the workers in this area. Therefore, we have already proposed the revision of Law No. 89 / 99 of 5 July, which defines the conditions of access and exercise of the activity of gestal-language interpreter, in articulated with the representative organizations of these professionals and the deaf community, as well as the creation of the career itself for Portuguese-language interpreter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u201	At the end of this point, we still have the sixth point on our agenda, which is contained in Draft Resolution No. 469 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Investigation Committee to the State's performance in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area, for which no time of discussion has been allocated. So, we move on to the seventh point, with the regimental votes, which, as you know, is a patient job. The examination of the deliberation quorum was carried out in a timely manner, with 202 Members present at the time of the verification, and we have quorum to proceed with the votes. We begin with the Vote Project No 230 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and subscribed by PS Members ) — Regret of the death of Ambassador Leonardo Mathias. To read this vote, Mr. Nelson Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Sunday, April 22, after a long career of more than 40 years, Ambassador Leonardo Mathias died. The Portuguese ambassador who passed through Washington, Brasília, Madrid, Paris, New York, UN, or Brussels, European Community was born in 1936 within a family of diplomats, having his father and his brother also integrated Portuguese diplomacy. Leonardo Mathias, a graduate of Historical and Philosophical Sciences at the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, began his career in 1960, with his first placement to happen in South Africa, such as Consul in Cape Town, in 1963. Leonardo Mathias also incorporated the VII and VIII constitutional governments, who had Pinto Balsamão as Prime Minister in the years 1981 and 1982 as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The Foreign Minister was André Gonçalves Pereira. In 2004, three years after reforming the diplomatic career, he served as Secretary-General of the Union of the Capital Cities of the Portuguese Language ( UCCLA ) and also served as administrator of the Portuguese Red Cross and Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation. throughout his life he received a large number of honorary distinctions, ‘extending among the nationals, the Great Cruzes of the Military Order of Christ, of the Order of Infante D. Henrique, of the Order of Merit and, among the foreigns, the Great Cruzes of the Royal Order of Isabel a Católica, of Spain, of the National Order of the Southern Cruise, of Brazil, of the Order of São Silvestre, of the Holy See. It was also distinguished from the Order of the Legion of Honor of France, among other distinctions from countries such as Belgium, Greece, Italy or Thailand. Leonardo Mathias was a brilliant diplomat, who has always had an important career in the service of Portugal and the affirmation of our strategic interests at the international level. He finished his career in Paris, where his father also had been ambassador, for a long time. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Leonardo Mathias, recalling his brilliant journey as a diplomat at the service of Portugal and addressing to his family and friends his sympathies. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u203	We now have the Vote Project No 231 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and subscribed by PS Members ) — regretting the death of Ambassador José Cutileiro, whose reading will be for Secretary Lina Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u204	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the draft vote is as follows: « Last Sunday, May 17, he died in Brussels, where he lived, Ambassador José Cutileiro. Born on November 20, 1934, in Évora, the Portuguese ambassador from early on began to travel the world, due to the fact that his father, a doctor, had left the country to integrate the World Health Organization, taking his family with him. At the age of 17, José Cutileiro returns to Lisbon, beginning the course of Architecture, after Medicine, but ends up leaving studies in Portugal and moving to England, where he concludes a degree in Social Anthropology at Oxford University, the university that ‘teached to think’. It is in England that he also does his doctorate, and he teaches at the London School of Economics, until, with the revolution of April 25, he is invited by Mário Soares to enter the diplomatic career, beginning with being culturally admitted to the Embassy of Portugal in London. in a full career, and punctuated by many moments of enormous relevance, some who had obvious relevance in Portuguese diplomacy stand out. In 1987, he returned to Lisbon to take over the Directorate-General for Political and Economic Affairs, negotiating in this capacity Portugal's accession to the WEU ( Western European Union ), in 1990, becoming its Secretary-General between 1994 and 1999. In 1992 he was the coordinator of the peace conference for the former Yugoslavia, during the Portuguese Presidency of the EEC ( European Economic Community ), and was sent to Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. José Cutileiro was also Ambassador of Portugal to Pretoria, South Africa, at a time that coincided with the release of Nelson Mandela, and in 2001 he was appointed Special Representative of the United Nations Human Rights Commission for Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. José Cutileiro was a remarkable diplomat, anthropologist, chronicler, a man who had a significant role in contemporary Portuguese diplomacy, always in defense of the values of peace, democracy and culture. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of José Cutileiro, recalling his brilliant journey as a diplomat in the service of Portugal and addressing to his family and friends his condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then proceed to the vote. We begin by voting on the draft vote No 230 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and subscribed by PS Members ) — Regret of the death of Ambassador Leonardo Mathias. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] The vote on the draft vote No 231 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Portuguese Communities and subscribed by PS Members ) — Regret of the death of Ambassador José Cutileiro. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u206	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u207	Mrs. Members, we follow the Draft Vote No 229 / XIV / 1. a ( submitted by the Committee on European Affairs and subscribed by PS Members ) — Greetings for Europe Day. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PCP and ENP.]] We shall then, in general, vote on Law No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — transposes Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 843 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 1673 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2018 on the fight against money laundering through criminal law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] The legislative initiative is down to 1. the Commission. We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 384 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 385 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Excludes entities based in tax havens from any public support to the economy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The general vote of Bill No 386 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Excludes companies based in tax havens from support lines under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u208	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u209	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u210	Mr President, to inform you that on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of the Baroque Group of Melo, Miguel Matos, Maria Begonha, Joana Sá Pereira and Tiago Estêvão Martins, a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u211	It is duly registered, Mr. Mr. João Paulo Correia, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u212	Mr President, to make a verbal request on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group for Law No 16 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ), rather than down to 1. the Commission shall be down to 5. the Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Finance, in connection with 1. the Commission, which was where it was dealing before it was generally approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u213	I wonder if any of the benches are opposed to doing so. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, the legislative initiative will fall to 5. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission. Act No. 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic, with which we proceed to the supplementary script. Let's start by voting on this bill in general. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] We passed the speciality vote on the same bill. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. o [[The vote was taken in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now turn to Article 2. we shall vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 3 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[(b) the rate of effort of the leaser's family aggregate, calculated as a percentage of the income of all members of that aggregate for payment of income, or becomes more than 30%; or]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u214	We are now voting on the proposal by the Block on the Left to add a new point ( c) to Article 3 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(c) persons in unemployment registered at the Institute for Employment and Vocational Training, IP; or]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u215	We turn to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left to add a new point ( d) to Article 3 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(d) family aggregates in which income per capita is less than the indexer of social support;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u216	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 4. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[The following was the case: Article 4 [...] In the situations provided for in the preceding article, the landlord shall only be entitled to settle the lease contract, for lack of payment of income due in the months in which the state of emergency and in the first month following it, as well as the state of public calamity and in the following three months, if the tenant does not make his payment within 12 months of the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount paid together with the monthly income.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u217	The vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD shall follow the addition of Article 4 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — In the situations provided for in paragraphs 1 and 3 of the following article, the landlord shall be entitled to the termination of the contract, in general terms of law, if:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u218	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u219	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u220	Mr President, if there is agreement between all the benches, we can jointly vote on the proposals of the following Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u221	I wonder if there is any objection to this. [[Pause.]] If there are any objections, we shall vote on the proposals one at a time. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Block on the Left amending Article 5 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Housing leasers, as well as, in the case of students who do not increase their employment income, their creditors, who have, in evidence, the breakdown referred to in Article 3, and who are unable to pay the income of their permanent residence, may request the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, IP (IHRU, IP), to grant a loan without interest to bear the difference between the value of the monthly income due and the value resulting from the application to the income of the family member of an effort rate of 30%, in order to allow the payment of the income due, and the remaining income of the aggregated per capitaion may not be less than the indexer of the social support (IAS).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u222	We are now voting on the proposal by the Left Block to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 5. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Support provided for in the previous issue for the payment of income may also be requested in the same forms and duodecimous due to the suspension of the payment of income provided for in Article 4.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u223	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding a new paragraph 3 to Article 5. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and PAN were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The immediate maturity provided for in Article 13 is still eligible for support in the same forms, when the tenant finds a rental of less than the amount of income linked to it.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u224	We turn to the vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 5 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to residential renters whose breakdown of income determines the reduction in the value of income due to them, in accordance with the terms laid down in special lease or income schemes, such as supported lease, supported income and social income.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u225	We shall then vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 5 ( 3 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Housing owners who have proven to have the breakdown of income referred to in Article 3(1)(c), whose tenants do not use the loan of IHRU, IP, in accordance with the above numbers, may request IHRU, IP, to grant an interest-free loan to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, where the remaining available income of the capital aggregate falls, for this reason, below the IAS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u226	We now vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 5 ( 3 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Housing owners who have proven to have the breakdown of income referred to in Article 3(1)(c), whose tenants or not inform them of the non-payment of income and do not use the loan of IHRU, IP, in accordance with previous numbers or, having made it, have been wronged, regardless of the reason, may request IHRU, IP, the granting of an interest-free loan to offset the value of the monthly income, due and unpaid, where the remaining available income of the aggregate falls, for this reason, below the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u227	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 5. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The obligation to reimburse the owners to IHRU, IP always benefits from a three-month period of absence.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u228	The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 5 ( 6 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — For the landlords in the situation described above, the debts to the Tax and Customs Authority constituted by a lack of payment of the municipal property tax for the year 2020 for the definition of a regulated situation within the meaning of the Code of Procedure and the Tax Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u229	We then voted on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, replacing Article 5 ( 4 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The loans referred to in this Article are granted by IHRU, IP, under its tasks, and are financed by the State budget through own funds without prejudice to the response to housing deficiencies.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u230	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 5 ( 9 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 9 — Uses of loans granted by IHRU, IP in accordance with this Article shall be exempt from seal tax.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u231	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 6 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Renters who are unable to pay the income in accordance with Article 3(1)(a) and (b) and who do not avail themselves of financial support or who, having made the same request, have the duty to inform the owner of such facts, in writing, up to five days before the maturity of the first income in which they could benefit from the scheme provided for in this Chapter or, within the same time limit, from the date of notification of that refusal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u232	The vote on Article 7 ( a ) shall follow. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We turn to the vote on Article 7 ( b ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira amending Article 8 (1). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The housing lease, including parts of housing, which fills the provisions of the preceding article may defer payment of income due in the months in which the state of emergency and in the first subsequent month, for the 12 months after the end of that period, in monthly benefits not less than one twelfth of the total amount paid together with the income of the month concerned.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u233	The proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 8 ( 2 ) is hereby followed. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Until the end of the third month following the end of the public calamity, the renter who fills the provisions of the preceding article may also defer payment of the overdue income, applying the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u234	We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 8 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Until 1 September 2020, the tenant who fills the provisions of the preceding article may also defer payment of due income for the months in which under the legal provision or administrative measure approved under the COVID-19 pandemic is determined the closure of facilities or suspension of activities or in the first subsequent month provided that it covers the period.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u235	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira amending Article 8 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Until 1 September 2020, the housing leaser, including parts of dwelling, which fills the provisions of the preceding article may also defer payment of due income for months in which, under the legal provision or administrative measure approved under the COVID-19 disease pandemic, the closure of facilities or suspension of activities or in the first subsequent month, provided that the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 apply.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u236	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 8 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Until 1 September 2020, the tenant who fills the provisions of the preceding article may also defer payment of due income for the months in which, under the legal provision or administrative measure approved under the COVID-19 pandemic, the closure of facilities or suspension of activities is determined and in the first subsequent month provided that it covers the period under which the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 apply.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u237	We now vote on Article 8 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 8 ( 3 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — In the case of leasers covered by the previous paragraphs, the debt regularisation period shall start only after the end of the third month following the end of the state of public calamity or after the end of the month following the end of the month in which the impediment ceases prior to that date.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u238	The vote on Article 8 ( 3 ) shall follow. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on the proposal by BE to eliminate Article 8 ( 4 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We therefore vote Article 8 ( 4 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against BE and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal by the Left Block on the elimination of Article 8 ( 5 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on Article 8 ( 5 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against BE and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 8 ( 6 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and BE were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the PCP, the PEV and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — The provisions of Article 5(1), (3), (4) and (5) shall apply to non-residential leases with the necessary adaptations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u239	We are now voting on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 8 ( 6 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — Renters wishing to benefit from the possibility of diverging income under previous numbers have the duty to inform the landlord, in writing, up to five days before the payment of the first income they intend to defer.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u240	We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 9 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PAN and abstentions against the PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and Member not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The lack of payment of income that occurs in the months in which the state of emergency and in the first subsequent month, as well as the state of public calamity and in the following three months, in accordance with the preceding article, cannot be invoked as a basis for resolution, denunciation or other form of termination of contracts or as a basis for the obligation to lay down buildings.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u241	We now vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 9 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The absence of payment of income in the months in which the state of emergency is in force and in the first month thereafter, as well as, in the case of establishments and installations which remain closed under the legal provision or administrative measure approved under the COVID-19 pandemic, which determines the closure of premises or suspension of activities, for the months in which this vigor and in the month following, for the period up to 1 September 2020, in accordance with the preceding Article, cannot be invoked as a basis for resolution, denunciation or other form of termination of contracts, nor as a basis for the obligation to lay down buildings, except in the event of failure to fulfil the reporting duty to which the tenant is obliged in accordance with paragraph 6 of the preceding Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u242	We shall vote on Article 9 (1). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, amending Article 11 ( 1 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous articles, public entities with leased or otherwise leased buildings may, during the period of validity of this Act, reduce income to tenants who have, in evidence, a loss of income exceeding 20% compared to the incomes of the previous month or to the same period of the previous year, when the latter results in an effort rate greater than 30% compared to income.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u243	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, adding Article 11 ( 5 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — In the case of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute, IP, this measure is disclosed to its tenants in sending monthly receipts with instructions for exemption, reduction or moratorium.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u244	We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 12 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Indemnity referred to in the previous paragraph, due to late payment of income until the end of the third month following the end of the state of public calamity, is not required in cases where its payment may be deferred in accordance with the provisions of Article 8(2).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u245	We shall now vote on the proposal by the Left Block amending Article 12 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The compensation referred to in the previous paragraph, due to late payment of income by 31 December 2020, is not required in the situations laid down in Articles 3 and 7.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u246	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 12 (2). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 14 ( 2 ) is hereby followed. the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Articles 5 and 11 shall apply to income from 1 April 2020 until the end of the third month following the end of the public calamity.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u247	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the Block on the Left, amending Article 14 ( 2 ). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Articles 5 and 11 shall apply to income from 1 April 2020 until 31 December 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u248	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 14 (2). the Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April, as set out in Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PAN and IL and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on an amendment tabled by the PSD to Article 2. o -A to Law No 4 - C / 2020 of 6 April. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2- Addendum to Law No. 4-C/2020 of 6 April Article 8a is added to Law No. 4-C/2020 of 6 April, in its current wording, with the following wording: ‘Article 8 - Breakdown of income of non-residential landowners In the case of non-residential leases, the scheme provided for in Article 5 for landowners shall apply when:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u249	We shall vote for Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP and ENP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the CDS-PP to add Article 3. o -A to Bill No. 32 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the PCP and the ENP.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3a Regulation The Government regulates the access by non-residential tenants to interest-free loans to be granted by the Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, I.P. (IHRU, I.P.), no later than 8 days after the publication of this Act.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u250	We shall vote for Article 4. that of the proposed law under consideration. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the Bill No 32 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the exceptional regime for situations of default in the payment of due income under housing and non-residential urban lease contracts under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PEV, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u251	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u252	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u253	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group is seeking a waiver of final drafting and also of the deadline for complaint on the articulation of this proposed law which has now been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u254	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on this request from the Socialist Party. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall continue with the general vote of Bill No 387 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional scheme for housing and non-inhabitation in the event of a proven decrease in income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from IL.]] The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has submitted a request, which I read: « The PS Parliamentary Group requires Bill No. 389 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amendment to Law No 7 / 2020 of 20 April, with a view to extending the deadlines for support measures for families in the context of the current public health crisis, is to be voted in jointly at today's plenary session, in general, in the field of expertise and in overall final voting'. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, is there any objection to the Socialist Party's request? [[Pause.]] With no objection, we will vote for Bill No. 389 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) in general, in speciality and in overall final vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u255	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u256	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u257	Mr President, we have applied for the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in relation to Bill No. 389 / XIV / 1. a, that we just voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u258	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone have anything to oppose? [[Pause.]] With no objection, the application was approved. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the vote on draft resolution No 427 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the scope of the support of the Urban Housing and Rehabilitation Institute for the payment of housing income under the COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We will continue, with the vote on draft resolution No 438 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the immediate suspension of payment of IMI to owners with losses of more than 20 % of income. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]] We will now vote for the Resolution Project No. 214 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government contract Portuguese Gestive Interpreters for the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 285 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the hiring of gestal-language interpreters for public services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 210 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures the access of deaf people to the National Health Service. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PS abstention.]] This diploma is down to 9. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u259	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u260	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u261	Mr President, I believe that draft resolution No 210 / XIV / 1. a, voted now, does not go down to committee because it was the only approved project. It's just to confirm my understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u262	That's right, sir. We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 469 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to the operation of the State in the award of support following the 2017 fires in the Pinhal Interior area. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] We will now vote in general on the replacement text submitted by the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee on Bill No 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education within the scope of the COVID 19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall now vote for the inclusion of the indexary votes in the Commission's speciality on the previous replacement text. I wonder if the ladies. Members do not take the votes cast in committee. Does any parliamentary group disagree with any committee vote? [[Pause.]] There is no disagreement, I think we can vote on the same terms as the committee vote. Does anyone have anything to oppose? [[Pause.]] There is no objection, we take the same vote in committee, since there is no change to be made. We shall then proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport on Bill No 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education within the scope of the COVID 19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we then vote on two requests for the full vote in favour of amendments to Articles 9. o and 11. o -A, presented by BE, and 5. the -A, submitted by the PS, of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, as set out in Article 2. and added to Article 3. the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1 respectively. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u263	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u264	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u265	Mr President, I believe that the Left Block bench has already indicated to the Bureau that it intends to intervene on this point, in particular Mrs Alexandra Vieira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u266	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u267	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u268	Mr President, we have no knowledge of any request. It's just now that we're getting to know each other and we can't keep up with everything he's got.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u269	Mrs. Member, the requirement for the Left Block is in the script...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u270	Mr President, allow me to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u271	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u272	Mr. President, the requirement of the Left Block was the first to enter and consists of the script. On the other hand, the PS entered later, having been distributed to the various parliamentary groups for a few moments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u273	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u274	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u275	Mr President, if possible, I would ask you to read the request again, because, it seems to me, what has been read does not correspond to what is written. from there our doubt and the fact that we said we did not know another requirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u276	Mrs. Member, the requirement of the Left Block is in the script from the beginning. The PS's request was presented very above the vote, but it was distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u277	Mr President, in order to clarify, I would ask you to read the request again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u278	I shall read the Socialist Party's request: « The PS Parliamentary Group shall come under Article 151. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, require the plenary to vote on the proposed amendments annexed to this request and which relate to Article 5. -A of Decree-Law No. 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, added by Article 3. the final text of the Committee on Culture and Communication on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1 ( GOV ) ». If there is no opposition, we shall jointly vote for two requests for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of proposals for amendments to Articles 9. o and 11. o -A, presented by BE, and 5. the -A, submitted by the PS, of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, as set out in Article 2. a and added to Article 3. the, respectively, the final text submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[When put to the vote, they were adopted unanimously and the absence of the CH was recorded.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members if, like the Left Block, some more party intends to sign up to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u279	Mr President, I am signing for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u280	It's registered. With no further inscriptions, Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u281	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the participants of the culture and arts vigil, organized by the workers of this sector in 16 cities of the country. The conjugation of work precariousness and the absence of a specific work and social protection regime for workers and workers of culture has increased vulnerability and increased the scale of the calamity caused by the suspension of all cultural activities. Many workers and cultural workers find themselves in a situation of great fragility, without money to buy food and pay their basic expenses, surviving thanks to the solidarity of colleagues. The Government has implemented a set of measures to address the social emergency in several sectors. However, the measures adopted for culture were insufficient and far from what is needed. The Block presented an emergency programme for the cultural sector which defends fundamental rules: cancellations must be paid at 100 % in respect of work expenses; redeployments cannot be a pretext for deferring payments; social support designed by the Ministry of Labour must take into account the precarious condition of much artistic work. Having not included all our proposals, the amendments, in particular, to the decree-law represent an important victory for the workers of culture. This is because, if the corrections presented here are guaranteed, it obliges public institutions or with public funding to pay workers at least half of the expected income. This was an obligation which the Left Block proposed from the beginning, which was refused and has created the absurdity of some municipalities comply and others do not. However, in order for this obligation to enter into force, and this is the intention of the proposals already adopted, it is absolutely necessary that the mistakes we have mentioned here be corrected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u282	Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I very much want to explain the proposed amendment, which results from the fact that, in the drafting which was approved in the committee, it has referred itself to the authorization of the IGAC (General Inspection of Cultural Activities ) on which it does not have jurisdiction, since its competence is confined to closed premises. When it comes to the provision in question of events that also occur in the open air, it did not make sense to add an obligation which does not correspond to the usual tasks of the IGAC, making sense, yes, to ensure that this communication takes place in accordance with the terms already laid down in the diploma. Therefore, it is a clarifying intention and does not create an additional obstacle or additional burden. The subject we are approving is designed to adapt, where necessary, the legislation on licensing of spectacles, so in this case it is not justified to create an obligation for which the entity does not have a vocation or will make such a follow-up. It is that, in the overwhelming majority of cases, it is municipal competence and so it should be for all, transversally, not introducing this amendment. On the other hand, on the issues which Mrs De Clercq pointed out, essentially, that the exercise of this diploma which we are discussing here today is linked to the adoption of clearer rules on how to reprogramming, the consequences of cancellations, delays and, ultimately, to a legal relationship which is soon to be dealt with in this diploma, with the protection of consumers and show promoters, which obviously also has an impact on workers. It is a concern that we have been accompanying at various times in the parliamentary debate but which does not correspond to this diploma. in this diploma, many amendments to the Left Block were accepted in the field of specialty, in particular those relating to this subject which we are discussing and not those which have to do with the main purpose of the intervention which has just done, since clearly do not correspond to the object and scope of this decree. These matters continue, and must continue to be followed, but we do not think that this is the seat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u284	As there are no more interventions, we will continue with the votes. We shall vote on the amendment tabled by BE to Article 9. the Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 9 Counter-ordination 1 — Without prejudice to other criminal and civil responsibilities applicable where applicable, infringements of Article 11(1) and (2) and Article 11a(1), (3) and (4) constitute counter-ordinations in accordance with Article 36(1) of Decree-Law No 23/2014 of 14 February 2014 in its current wording. 2 — The negligence is punishable, with the minimum and maximum amounts of the fine reduced to half.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u285	We are now voting on the amendment tabled by BE to Article 11. the -A of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March as set out in Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 11a [...] 3 — Within 20 days of receipt of the payments, the entities referred to in paragraph 1 should send to the General Inspection of Cultural Activities proof of the payments made by them and thus demonstrate the criterion used for the proportional and equitable rate of such payments. 4 — For the purpose of monitoring compliance with the obligations laid down in this Article, the contracting public body shall communicate to the General Inspection of Cultural Activities all payments made pursuant to paragraphs 1 or 2 of the preceding Article within ten days of payment.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u286	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u288	Mr President, it is necessary to vote on the PS proposal, which does not appear in the script, relating to Article 5. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u289	We shall then vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to Article 5. o -A of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, added by Article 3. odo final text. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The shows referred to in the previous paragraph may exceptionally take place, either in a covered enclosure or in the open air, with a place marked, after communication in terms of the previous number, and in respect of the lotation specifically defined by the Directorate-General for Health in accordance with the physical distance rules that are appropriate to the evolution of the disease pandemic CVID-19.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u290	The final overall vote of the final text is followed, submitted by the Committee on Culture and Communication, on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish exceptional and temporary measures for performances of an artistic nature in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN and Non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u291	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u292	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u293	Mr President, it is for the canonical request for a waiver of final wording and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies of the Bill No 31 / XIV / 1. the, in the approved version.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u294	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u295	Is this about the request?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u296	No, no.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u297	Then I ask you to wait. With regard to the request from the PS, now made by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I wonder if there is any objection. [[Pause.]] If not, the application has been approved and will be made in accordance with the procedure. Now, yes, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u298	Mr President, it is only to announce the presentation of a declaration of vote on the overall final vote of the final text on the Proposal for a Law No 31 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u299	Be registered. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real is asking for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u300	Mr President, with regard to the proposal for an amendment by the PS on Article 5 ( 2 ). o -A, the NAP abstains, does not vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-21.u301	The abstention shall be recorded, which shall not alter the final result. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session will be on Wednesday, 27, for 3 p.m. At the first item on the agenda, we will have political statements. The second point will be followed by the assessment of Petition No 601 / XIII / 4. a ( Paulo Jorge Cleto Duarte et al.) — They call for measures to be taken to save the pharmacy, together with Resolution Projects Nos 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the economic and financial sustainability of Community pharmacies, 122 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures supporting the Community pharmacy network, 245 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Close access to the medicine and 246 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the sustainability of access to the medicinal product. At the third point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 615 / XIII / 4. a ( José Maria da Silva Jácome et al.) — They request the adoption of measures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, together with the Resolution Projects Nos 213 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 280 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the accelerated construction of the new hospital in Lagos, 269 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — For the urgent construction of the new hospital in Lagos and No 414 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — The construction of the new hospital in Lagos with adequate planning of its future valences and integrated into the health care network. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good Friday and a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 5 minutes.]]
