ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our work. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the file she entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as amended by Laws Nos 4 -A / 2020 and 4 - B / 2020, both of 6 April, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. For now, it is only, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u3	Let us then begin the first item on our agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, i.e. we begin with the questions posed by the various banks and parties. To that end, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government : 15 days ago, I asked about the question of layoff, more specifically when the payment would be made. Mr Prime Minister, 15 days ago, answered me, and I quote: «All requests will be paid on 24th, 28th and 30th April. Do not keep on seeking. ” We know, however, that none of these deadlines have been met. Moreover, the Minister for Economic Affairs — and well! — it was publicly said that the expectations were undermined and that it was not possible to meet deadlines. The deadlines have already been dragged, first for day 5 and we are already going on day 15. And Mr. Prime Minister, on the contrary, what are you doing? Oh, my God! Every time he fails, he makes more ads! That is, as you did yesterday, goes to social security, makes another set of ads, and does even more than that: an attempt to exercise ideologically in relation to this matter, talking about the importance of the state, the relevance of the state and out there. Mr. Prime Minister, the state is all of us. The government is not the owner of the state, so to speak, and the money of the state is the money of the Portuguese, it is the money of taxpayers who pay taxes. It happens that many of these taxpayers have been sent home, are not in a position to work, are waiting for the layoff's money and have not received it, as they have not received the companies that are trying to keep the jobs. So the first question is direct: from the universe of the 1,200 000, how many are receiving? That's 300 000? Oh, my God! How will the government solve this issue? What is the situation of others? When are you going to pay? Finally, does Mr Prime Minister admit or not that this period has to be extended as the recovery is more effective?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u5	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u6	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, I regret to disappoint you, but indeed there was no delay. In the Assembly of the Republic, he said that all applications — the valid ones, of course — to enter by the end of the first week of April would be paid by the end of April. It turns out that, thanks to the extraordinary effort of social security officials, all valid applications that came into effect until 10 April have been paid until 30 April. The new promise was not a new promise. We have said what has already been said: all requests which have come in, and which are valid, until the end of last week, that is, until April 30, will be paid by the end of next week, until May 15th. We made payments from Layoff on April 6th, April 16th, April 19th, April 24th, April 29th and April 30th, but when he says that some received yesterday, it is true. As you know, companies that account in the same bank where social security has their account until they received their own April 30, but on May 1 was paid, days 2 and 3 were not useful days and therefore, due to the normal process of bank transfer, there were payments made on day 30 that only fell into the business account on day 4 or 5. But everything is paid, in the total universe of 64,500 companies and 492 000 workers. In fact, there is something I would like to say to the honourable Member, if I may. I think it is totally legitimate and normal in democracy that the oppositions criticize the government, who say, "The government decides well, decides wrong, has good ideas, has bad ideas. » Everything! However, I do not believe it is legitimate at this stage that we are attacking people who are civil servants, of the State, who are doing their best, in an absolutely extraordinary effort to comply with political decisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, if there were any delays, it was no delay from the Minister, the Prime Minister or the Minister. They were delays from the social security machine. This, which we call a social security machine, is concrete people, who also have diseases, who are also afraid of diseases, who also have sick relatives, who also have dependent children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What you should also take into account is the extraordinary effort the social security services have made. Over the past 12 months, 512 layoff applications have been processed — I repeat, 512 layoff applications — and in a month and a half, 103 000 layoff applications have been processed. I repeat, 103 000 layoff requests. Now, to deal with 103 000 layoff requests, 500 per year, would take 187 years. What social security officials could do in just over a month and a half would take 187 years to deal with! And this deserves only one word: thank you, social security professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u7	The Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP continues to speak through Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to everything being true and not having failed anything, I would suggest that you start by saying to Mr Minister of Economy, who is sitting next to you there, since he said that the government had cheated the Portuguese. With regard to officials, of course, we thank them, especially because they are not able to fulfill the promises that you are announcing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u9	We got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u10	It is not their fault, it is their fault, because whoever defines the model is you, who makes the promises is you and who cannot fulfill them later are the employees, because it is not possible to fulfill your promises. The problem is not in the officials, it is in the government, it is in the government that drew the model of credit lines. You could have made deep-seated support, as we stand for, and we would also defend another model for layoff. You didn't pick him. Now, timidly, he makes some proposals in this direction, or he has come up with some ideas in this direction, but he chose to go to the bank. I ask you if it is normal that only 3 % of the 100 % of companies who have applied for bank support are receiving and that the support granted in some cases is 1, 2 % of the total that is requested and that is necessary. Do you think it is normal that the latter, using an expression from the President of the Portuguese Business Confederation ( CIP ), « a team game », is the bank the network guard? It seems that the main objective is to prevent money from reaching businesses. I ask you if you think this is normal, what you are going to do in this regard, and if you also recognise in this case that credit lines are clearly insufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u11	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u12	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, precisely because it is a team game, I will not talk about the other elements of the team. I'm just talking about the part that fits us. The Portuguese Mutual Guarantee Society, which is the entity of the State that intervenes, has so far approved EUR 4700 million of guarantee. I repeat, EUR 4700 million guarantee. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u13	Mr Telmo Correia continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u14	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you did not refute what you said. Apparently, 3% will be receiving, bureaucratic barriers are huge and companies complain - if - we are not us! And the same is true of layoff. The opposition, of course, gives voice to the concern and complaints of the Portuguese, because the less they receive, the harder it is to solve this problem, the longer it will be the recovery and the closer the recession will be. That's the problem, Prime Minister. The problem, obviously, is helping businesses, helping people and helping those who are not receiving. The last question, Prime Minister, I have already put it to the government in various ways. I think it's a fact that doesn't solve our current problem, but it's important from the historical point of view. It is a matter of knowing when the government began the necessary purchases to respond to this pandemic. The feeling I have is that, being the alerts of early February, the government started its purchases only in March. That's the idea I have, but Mr. Prime Minister will say. I don't have any decisive data on this, that's my idea. The question, of course, concerns the following: the government has purchased a situation of need, which is understood, and in an emergency, which is obvious. However, Mr Prime Minister certainly does not ignore the fact that there have been a number of doubts about these contracts, in particular about their advertising. I must tell you, Prime Minister, with total sincerity...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u16	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, I do not like the policy of suspicions, but it is clear that urgency cannot be synonymous with lack of transparency and therefore I ask you, Prime Minister — the key to solving it is in your hand — what the government is going to do. Are you going to advertise everything or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u17	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u18	Are you going to audit everything or not? The CDS will propose in this Chamber a possible committee to monitor these same matters and all exceptional matters related to COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u19	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u20	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, first of all with regard to layoff, I insist: the commitment we made was fulfilled on the dates that had been planned. If there are companies that have not received, it is because they have delivered the request after 10 — then they will receive until 15 May — or, for some reason, the request has not been deferred, which may also have happened, either because of failures in filling, or because they do not meet the requirements for access to the layoff. Regarding the buying process, I believe it is public and notorious that everyone has had many difficulties in purchasing. I would like to draw your attention, for example, to the fact that the famous public competitions opened by the European Union for several months have not yet resulted in the effective recruitment of a single part. With regard to the simplified contracting regime, which has been approved on the basis of the public procurement code, it provides, quite expressly, for paragraph 2...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u21	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u22	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, it provides, quite expressly, in its paragraph 2, for advertising on the public procurement portal, including the basis for the adoption of this procedure. And even foresees more! It provides that, up to 60 days after the period of validity of this decree, a joint report will be published on the electronic site of the SPMS ( Shared Services of the Ministry of Health) on all awards, their justification and circumstantialism, including the impossibility or serious inconvenience of recourse to another type of procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u23	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u24	This has been published since 23 April in the Journal of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u25	Contracts weren't public!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u26	It was only to have read it on April 24, and I would have known the answer long ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u27	I call on the PS Parliamentary Group, through Mrs Marina Gonçalves, to put questions to Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister : The social state has never been so present in the parliamentary debate. in this House, with the political and ideological diversity we know well, all, without exception, appeal to the direct intervention of the State in the economy and in the lives of the Portuguese. This is not demagogy, it is a reality, it is fact. It was evident, at a time when we are all affected, as a community, that the response is in our collective action, in addition to an appropriate protection and public safeguard system. This is because, indeed, the public response is, and will always be, the best option. Otherwise, let's see: we ask people at risk of contagion to stay home; on the other hand, support mechanisms have been created to minimize the stopping of professional activity. We asked children and young people to stay at home; on the other hand, conditions have been created for children up to 12 years of age to be accompanied by one of their parents, with no repercussions on professional life and with social security support. We asked many companies and many professionals to suspend the activity; on the other hand, substantial support was created to safeguard jobs and mechanisms to defer contributions were created, along with many other measures to strengthen the liquidity of companies. While all this was created, and largely executed, in about a month and a half, as Mr. Prime Minister says, the social state, as we know it, has not stopped either. Social responses have continued to be given and have often been strengthened. That's why, sirs. Members, it is due to a word of appreciation for the effort and work of those who, day and night, try to ensure that everyone has access to the social state. Could speed be another? I could. Would the effectiveness of the answer be the same? It wouldn't, of course. We too, here, know how difficult it is to speed up processes with total effectiveness, and we, in this exceptional period, have often had to correct many proposals that we have adopted here. It's normal, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is part of the exceptionality of the moment we live. That is why it is up to us, with a sense of responsibility, to point out, from people, from our companies, that the State does not leave them behind and that our public services, social security, do not leave them behind either. In fact, it was answered with more and better state, and with more and better state we tried to reach all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The answer has not been nor will it be stagnant, has evolved and will certainly continue to evolve according to needs. And we must have the humility to realize where the answer fails and, together, define viable solutions and above all socially just solutions. It is in this permanent dialogue that bridges are being made. At a time when cooperation is requested, when solidarity is sought, we cannot, or should not, turn our speech away to easy demagogy to do but which hardly bring any solution. We must continue to promote the joint work of debate and analysis of the measures and responses necessary to the population. We see what was adopted today in the Council of Ministers and that goes to meet many of those who were the concerns raised in this Parliament and that, indeed, the Government had already said that it would consider. I am talking about the extension of the support of self-employed workers to more partners; I am talking about access to support by self-employed workers who have opted for the exemption of social security contributions in the first 12 months; I am talking about the reduction of the guarantee period for access to social unemployment benefit. These are important answers for the people. They are answers that all of us, together, have identified and will now be executed. And that is the only message that is truly worth conveying. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would ask you to give us some detail of the answers that have been adopted today in the Council of Ministers, also asking for an analysis of the answers that are still being considered and how will these support continue or be adapted, depending on the partial and progressive resumption that we now have of economic activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u29	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u30	Mr President, Mrs Marina Gonçalves, I believe it was precisely that expression which so bothered the ideological framework of my reference yesterday. But if there is something that this crisis has become very obvious, it is how the social state is absolutely a fundamental pillar of citizenship and economic development in a decent society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that the day we closed the school all realized how public school is an essential condition for equal opportunities in teaching and learning. When everyone was afflicted, they quickly forgot the discourse about the chaos in the National Health Service (NSS ) and it was the National Health Service that ran and was the National Health Service that responded to this pandemic crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And when, in fact, a safety network was needed to protect companies, employment and income is the public social security that has been present, to respond to 'present' and to meet needs. And in a very short period of time it was possible not only to maintain the payment of all benefits ( 4, 5 million benefits and pensions that are paid monthly in Portugal ), but also to receive more 780 000 new users for a large set of new benefits: the benefits we sought to protect the income of families who had to stay at home to take care of children under 12 years of age because the school had closed up; the response we had to give to the sudden fall of activity of many independent workers; the response we had to give to support employment, using a measure that has already been in force since the 1980s but has now been massive because of its simplification and that at the moment we have already protected hundreds of thousands of jobs, which is the measure of layoff. This enormous effort that has been made is absolutely essential and demonstrates one thing, which is the centrality of the social state as a guarantee of citizenship and development. I do not think that there is an ideological dispute here, but I hope that it will be the strengthening of the conviction and the social pact among all of us that we must even protect the social state. It was in this sense that today we approved a set of measures aimed at extending coverage, which we found that they were still to cover in the range of measures we had taken at the beginning of the crisis response, in particular those aimed at informal workers or self-employed workers who had chosen not to make contributions to social security, saying to them: "We are here to support and do not forget that this is the time to deformatize your participation in active life. It's time to discount for social security. They are committed to the future of social security, which is now here to respond to the needs of your present. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u31	The PS Parliamentary Group is still speaking, now through Mr Luís Testa. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u32	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: Over the past few weeks, Portugal has experienced a reality already described so many times, but never imagined by anyone. over the last few weeks, the Portuguese responded impressively, revealing a behavior of a mature society, which corresponded a self-limitation in line with all the appeals that were launched and consistent with all the measures that have been implemented. In front of a pandemic like the one we live, the first, the main, the immediate goal of the country is to save lives. Save lives of Portuguese and Portuguese, men and women, old and children, from north to south, from inside to islands, from cities to villages and villages, save lives of Portuguese and Portuguese who trust in the State as a guarantee of the firm and effective response that the moment deserves. In the face of a pandemic such as the one we live, the first, the main, the immediate objective of Portugal has been assured. Every day, over the last two months, we've been able to save lives. Many conjectures can be traced, many scenarios can be drawn, but today there is a certainty that we have: it would not be possible to present the results that Portugal has been presenting if there is not a legacy, a legacy that has been left to us by democracy and that has made access to universal health care and without any discrimination. I would like to express, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, an enormous recognition to the National Health Service and to all, without exception, those who make up it. Your dedication has been an example. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would not be possible to present the results that Portugal has been presenting if there was no strategy that was affixed to the protection of populations and to the rapid and effective investment in structures and equipment. It would not be possible to present the results that Portugal has been presenting if there was no determination, the determination of a government that mobilized and mobilized the country for the successes achieved. After these two months, we have unfortunately not been able to save all our lives — no one has. But we also know that in Portugal there was not a single life that had been lost due to lack of means or assistance. in this extraordinary time, when emergency measures in the direct attack on pandemic were successfully implemented and results, it became imperative that another set of measures be launched to respond to the need of families and companies affected by the consequences of a shock wave either of the pandemic or of the measures to combat the pandemic and that have multiple translations, such as the simplified Layoff, which, according to the latest indicators, have already called for more than 100,000 companies, or credit lines, to which, according to the latest data, more than 40,000 companies have already applied for payment of debts to suppliers, having already been processed more than 22 000 requests for support, covering 4, 7 billion euros, through credit lines, which will certainly be more than 70 % of the initial allocation of the measure, and also the acceleration of payment of debts to suppliers, determined by resolution of the Council of Ministers, or at the time the acceleration of the PT 2020 ( Portugal 2020 ) line of incentives, which will, in accordance with the terms of the payment of the amount of the Funding Fund, Mr Prime Minister, the direct intervention measures in the national economy presuppose not only the required response to the state of emergency that the most varied sectors live but, above all, the understanding of the need for the implementation of an economic activation plan, a broad spectrum plan that can soon relaunch key sectors that assume themselves as catalysts of the economic fabric. If I may, I would like to make a public note, on behalf of our parliamentary group, of the appreciation and satisfaction that we can count on an economic fabric which, at no time, has lowered our arms. Businesses and entrepreneurs, as well as workers, have made a great effort so that the country will not stop, because Portugal cannot stop. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Proof of this is that none of the vital sectors have collapsed, which allows us to believe, with more confidence, in the demanding future that is approaching. But he asked: what is the plan for, besides saving lives as it is being done, saving businesses and jobs, what is our purpose? The way Portugal has faced the moment when it lives, not only in the country, but throughout Europe and around the world, has been a believer of the most varied praises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u34	The political consensus, the correct measures, the forecasting and response capacity, allow us to look at the period of gradual decoupling and the periods that follow it with the necessary confidence, but to what extent can that trust, especially the international one, mean another result for our economy than the originally drawn one? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u35	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u36	Mr President, Mr Luís Testa, the first concern we had was to contain the pandemic without killing the economy and now, as I have said, it must be to relaunch the economy without uncontrolled the pandemic. That is why, in the first moments when we adopted a set of measures to combat the pandemic, support measures were also adopted for businesses, jobs and incomes. I understand that for those in need of protection, urgency means that yesterday was already late. We all understand that. Now, we have to be fair in what is the evaluation of the results effectively achieved. An average decision time of 16 days, as is the case with the Layoff measures, cannot be considered to be an excessive deadline. Many point their finger to bureaucracy, but these are the same ones that, for months and a half, they also said that we were late in the acquisition of material and now they call into question the purchase of material by direct adjustment, which we should enter into the bureaucracy of public procurement. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And they're probably the same ones that, in a few months' time, they're gonna be pointing their fingers to the autoarchs because they did campaign hospitals that then didn't have to be needed,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... or that they'll even ask us why we went to buy thousands of fans when there were never more than 300 people connected to fans because of the COVID-19. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let's see the following: I think we've been long enough in politics for years so that we don't have any illusions about what the pace of politics is. At first, everything is missing; then, everything was too much. Now, what we should continue to have as a guide to our political choice is not to let ourselves be conditioned by the mood of the moment and do, at every moment, what is rationally essential to do,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... always bearing in mind that this is not a 100 m race; this is a long, uncertain ending marathon about the term, because we do not know when an effective treatment will be discovered or when an effective vaccine will be made available and until there we have to be ready for this fight. Therefore, what we must continue to do is, in terms of democratic dialogue, which is fundamental, to provide the National Health Service with the necessary tools to be able to respond not only to the crisis that we live but to the risk of the crisis that we can continue to live on, and to continue to create the best conditions for companies to survive and get to the side of this tunnel, preserving as many jobs as possible and with the lowest possible loss of income on the part of those who work. If we can make this journey this way, we will surely reach the side of the tunnel in better conditions for the recovery and the relaunch of our economy. We have a fundamental framework in which we must build our confidence: what was the state of our economy in February this year? What was the state of our economy two days before the first case of COVID-19 was diagnosed in Portugal? We had reached the lowest unemployment rate of long ago, our exports were growing, our economic growth was accelerating, we had just had a positive budget balance, for the first time in our democracy, in the 2019 accounts and we would certainly also have by 2020. None of the fundamentals of our economy have changed, but there is an absolutely brutal conjunctural shock, which has resulted in an abrupt fall in our economic activity, and what we have to do is a sort of freezing of the situation at the time of February so that we can start thawing when the pandemic is properly controlled, so that we can gradually and progressively resume our activity, and always safely. We have good reason to believe that the effort and the good policies that we started in 2015 and that so good results by February 2020 will return to good results once this pandemic page has turned. What we need to focus on is the following: to continue to control the pandemic in order to relaunch our life in society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u37	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Mr Rui Rio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u38	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to take advantage of this fortnight debate to bring here a problem that concerns me, which will certainly concern all Portuguese, and which has to do with the situation in which TAP (Portuguese Air Transport) is located. TAP is in a difficult situation, but it is good to know that TAP was already in a very difficult situation before the pandemic we are living.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u40	The TAP suffered losses in 2018 of EUR 118 million and in 2019 it again suffered losses of EUR 105 million. During 2019, the TAP liability increased 120 % more than it doubled from EUR 2, 2 billion to EUR 5000 million, and the worst is that the TAP has a negative net situation of EUR 518 million. TAP is therefore a technically bankrupt company. If it is only technically broken or could be broken purely and simply depends, of course, on what the aviation market will be and also on its management capacity, a management capacity that TAP has shown it does not have, which it did not have in the past and which, in particular, does not have in this model either. There was a bad deal for the state and it was the model that the government adopted. He did not want to maintain privatization, he put himself there with 50 % but did not count for TAP management because nothing can be done by TAP management. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] And why would the government want to keep 50% of the TAP? I think the logic is that the TAP should have a public service and, as it should have a public service, it is good that the State is present — I think this was the reasoning of the government. So, in this sense, I would like to ask you a few questions about the TAP so that we can all be more clear. The first question I ask you, precisely under this logic of public service, is whether Mr. Prime Minister is in a position to confirm or not and whether or not he agrees with the recent news that the TAP, now opening new routes or old routes, intends to open 71 from Lisbon, three from the port and, perhaps, none from Faro — indeed, it is not known what is intended to open from Faro. Is Mr. Prime Minister in a position to, as a shareholder of the company, say that this is true and, if it is true, are you in agreement or not? The exporting sector of the country is a neurotic element for the economic recovery we will have to do. This is where our problem is, in external debt and in the degradation of the balance of payments due to what happened to tourism, so the export sector is vital. Now, with the vital export sector basically in the north of the country, is it true that TAP does not want to make connections to the north of the country? I don't know if it's true, but the news says it is. Emigration, which was essentially in the 1960s, in the Tres-os-Montes and in the Mininho, where there are many divided families, with people who are in the north of the country and others in Luxembourg, Germany, France, Switzerland, needs these links more than here in Lisbon, but also, by the way, it will be ignored by the TAP. Therefore, there is no public service and management seems to be not there either, because it accumulates losses. So my question is: do we want to look at TAP as a national company or as an eminently regional company serving a small part of the country? So this is the first question I ask you: is it true or not? Do you agree or not? It is that this is a nuclear element for what will happen next in the TAP. The second question is more or less in the same sense: can you confirm or not the news that has come to the public that the TAP in its layoff complements the higher wages, i.e. the wages of someone who earns more than € 1900, which is the limit for state support for layoff, which earns, for example, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000, 9000, possibly 10 000? Is TAP covering those salaries? If so, TAP is covering the wages of people who need less of that support and who have more time to endure two or three months without that support. It is that if it is so and then TAP comes by hand extended to ask the State for money, what ends up to happen is that the State gives TAP money to give privileges to its workers who don't give any company in the country anymore. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, one last question, which I think is vital for all of us to know: does the Prime Minister know or does not know, is he in a position to clarify whether in TAP's liabilities, in those EUR 5000 million, is there any part that is endorsed by the State? I mean, if TAP isn't able to honor, is it public money that has to honor, or not? This element, which I do not know at all if yes or no, you, as an shareholder, will probably know which one it is. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The PCP is nervous! But it's not John Oliveira I'm asking, it's Mr. Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u41	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u42	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, first of all, wanted to say the following: the situation of TAP at this time, like that of all the airlines in the world, is absolutely unique and I believe that, at the moment — and we will all agree — is not the time for us to make strategic options for a company operating on the market where there is a very specific conjuncural crisis. The path of the TAP shows that in the last 45 years, I believe, only in two years, that it has not caused injury, the result of various circumstances and various management regimes of the company. I must say that I find it a little strange that, at the same time, criticizes the model we have adopted, in which we have read 50 % of the capital without the executive intervention in the management of TAP, and then suggests that it is because we are shareholders and not TAP managers that it has had worse results in recent years. I believe that it is an extraordinary vote of confidence, which I can only thank on behalf of the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the first question, I have no personal information on this matter — if the Government has it, I do not have it — but what I have seen was a public denial that there would be such distribution of routes. What I can add is that I have always stated that, in my understanding, there is a sub-use by TAP of a very important asset for the country, which is the Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport, and not only in the present as in the past it was worth this asset has not been used, which would, in fact, have helped a lot of integrated management of all airport infrastructures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as layoff is concerned, I know that there is indeed a complement, which has actually happened in other companies and which is not unusual, considering, as you know, that it is an activity sector where, in some professional categories, the maturity structure and its competitiveness in international terms is particularly critical. I draw attention to the fact that contributions are paid in respect of this supplement and that it is not the State that supports or shares in this differential. As regards debt under the privatisation contract that was made, the debt existing at the date of privatisation was the responsibility of the State and the information I have is that by 2019 the State's exposure to TAP responsibilities, as guaranteed debt, has decreased from about 900 million to 200 million euros over the last five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u43	Mr Rui Rio continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, I understand that TAP will now have some EUR 200 million in liabilities. That's what I'm interpreting. With regard to the question of layoff, attention, I am not saying that it is the State that is paying the differential of layoff; what I am saying is that if the State comes to putting more money into the TAP, indirectly it ends up being doing it because, when the TAP accumulates losses and has a negative net situation, I do not see that it has great economic rationality to be covering what clearly cannot cover. If it's totally private, it's there with your money and, to us, it doesn't interest us, but the problem is if more money from the state comes in there. Now, I would like to ask you a question that is absolutely vital, which, in my view, is the key to the TAP question and which is the following: whether or not TAP presented, will it do so, a business plan for the future? One thing is that we have a business plan that makes us true accounts, as far as possible in relation to what the market is right now, and therefore we know that at this time we have to put in a given amount and we have finished, or, then, we are putting a given amount to, then, more, more, and without limit. Now, if it is more, more, and without limit and, even above, if the public service that TAP is providing is not public service, if it is true what is said then the thing naturally changes in shape. So my question is this: is TAP asking for money from the state and presenting a business plan that gives us the security of how much it takes now and in the future, or just now, to know exactly the photograph we have, because without it it it is not possible to do anything rational and intelligent, it is only possible to throw money there, throw money there and then you see what happens? Therefore, this question is fundamental. The second question is: in view of the need for capitalisation of TAP, what is the model for which the Government is more inclined? If it is an increase in private capital and the public accompanies, everything will continue in the same and it is a capitalisation; if the State does not want to accompany and the private even does it alone, all the better — in our view, it would be ideal for me, but I think it does not have the conditions to do so; if it is by increasing capital to which only the State goes, of course the State moves to have the majority, but it needs such business plan to know exactly what it is doing and that it is not throwing money into waste. I hear that « bonds converted into shares ». What does that mean? This means that the State has the assurance that the liability it places there will revert to its own capital. But under what circumstances? In circumstances where TAP cannot pay. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Therefore, it only remains with TAP actions when the TAP, manifestly, is still more bankrupt than it is. So I have serious doubts that the best method of capitalization of TAP is that of convertible actions, but this is the equation. The question I ask you is whether the government already has any idea what it will do or not, whether it has any idea whether it is about a business plan or whether it is about something more or less. All this, I repeat, on the assumption that we are dealing with a national company and not a company whose name we have to change, leaving, for example, being TAP to be Extremadura Airlines, or something similar, because there things naturally turn out to be completely different. [[PSD laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u45	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u46	Mr President, Mr Rui Rio, finally each will have his own reasons why he believes that the State must have a control position in the TAP. The reasons that motivated the Government to acquire 50 % of the capital of a company that had already been privatized after the elections—knowing that at the time there was a majority in the Assembly of the Republic which was against this privatisation—in my view, the following were essentially: first, a country which has the geographical position that Portugal has, which has our diaspora in the world, which has the territorial discontinuity of Portugal, cannot fail to have a national airline where the State ensures a control position. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Personally—I know that there are different views—I am not in favour of the State's day-to-day management of TAP. There was already a time when it was, but I see no particular advantages in that. I think there are advantages that the TAP is managed daily by those who know about the aviation business, but I think it is essential that the state be there. The State must be there for if there is a vicissitude, for example, the failure of a private partner, the TAP will not be dragged by the vicissitudes of the private partner and, on the contrary, being there the State, to ensure its survival. The State does not have to manage the TAP on a daily basis, but it has to ensure that the TAP maintains the routes to the points where we have important immigrant communities. It must ensure, as it is currently doing, that territorial continuity is maintained and that the Autonomous Region of the Azores and the Autonomous Region of Madeira are not isolated from the world. It is that, at the moment, if they are not isolated from the world, it is because, by government instructions, TAP continues to fly every week to the Autonomous Region of the Azores and to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The TAP must, of course, ensure the best contribution to territorial cohesion. I told you recently, and I don't have any regrets to say it, which I think TAP uses insufficiently, for example, Francisco Sá Carneiro Airport. TAP also has a very important geostrategic function. A small country like ours hardly maintains an airline only with the internal market. It can only maintain its ability to scale the size of this company and the structuring from Lisbon a large intercontinental hub was only possible because the TAP existed and created this hub relative to Brazil. In the strategic plan that was under way and which is now pending, it was anticipated that there was now a growth in North America and the data of its application show that this path was being made. Now, given Portugal's geo-strategic insertion in this global world, claiming and seeking to affirm itself by its history and culture as a bridge between continents, it is absolutely essential that this company, TAP, secure and contribute to the definition of this geo-strategic position of Portugal. These are the reasons why I think it is essential that the State have a strong presence in the TAP. This said, it is true, public and notorious, that the TAP Administration asked the State to issue a guarantee for a short-term loan which it had negotiated internationally. The question we are dealing with with TAP Administration is whether the support that TAP requires is short-term support or whether it is indeed a bottom-up operation of its company. Both in one circumstance and in another, two things are clear: first, if the relative position between the State and the private, members of the State, the relationship of powers in the TAP has to be changed accordingly. Secondly, either by guarantee of a short-term loan, or by a capitalisation strategy, this must be not a blank check but a solution that follows a business model. Until I admit, I can admit that, if you say this is not the time when it is possible to draw a future business model, such is the degree of uncertainty, and that we need a bridge of a few months until we have a clearer scenario where that business plan is possible. in this case, it is absolutely essential that the State funding ensure the necessary control measures so that the State can effectively control how the oxygen balloon it gives is used, so that it cannot be used freely by those who administer the TAP. In other words, there will be support; without control, there will be no support. This is what we can say here and now in view of the negotiating framework we are maintaining with the TAP Executive Board. As for future capitalisation, good, surely the company needs capital. The honourable Member spoke of « a private person». I point out that there is no « private », there is fortunately more than a private and both individuals may not have the same view of the future of TAP, may not have the same view of the relationship with the shareholder state, nor even the same view of the future of the company. Therefore, we must not treat what is not equal, but we must commit ourselves to what we are currently committed to: whatever happens, the TAP will continue to fly with the colours of Portugal and will continue to carry out the missions that are absolutely essential to ensuring our territorial continuity with the two autonomous regions, to the relationship with our diaspora and to the services of public interest it provides on the continent. Apart from that, the State will not put in the form of a guarantee either in the form of a capital injection or in the form of a loan, or in any other form, a penny that is in the TAP without meaning more control and a relationship of appropriate powers to that support than it will be granted. That is what I can tell you right now, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u47	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have already registered, for the purpose of voting, more Members than would be enough for the voting quorum. Therefore, in accordance with the guidelines of each parliamentary group's leadership, the ladies and gentlemen. Members who wish to remain in the Chamber and those who are determined by the direction of the parliamentary group to leave will leave. Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u48	Mr President, allow me to leave a note here before the debate. Sometimes there is too much a soft line between ignoring to not give visibility to atrocity or, by silence, consenting to it. André Ventura made an unqualified proposal to decide the confinement of people taking into account their ethnic origin. He had the answer he owed to a Portuguese champion, Ricardo Lent, and soon came to suggest that footballers should have limited rights to opinion. We were therefore left to know that the Arrival not only has repugnant opinions like André Ventura has the cowardice of wanting to shut up who confronted him. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u49	Mr. André Ventura, I will fight for your right to have views on football, although I will also fight to end the shame of receiving several salaries in addition to that of a Member. And, as far as the Left Block is concerned, be sure that your racist ideas will go to the trash can, where they should never have left. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to commend you for your intervention on the needs of social defining and extending care even to those workers who do not have discounts, so often because employers abuse their situation of particular fragility and precariousness. But I should like to know, because it has not been said today, what has been decided precisely in today's Council of Ministers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u50	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u51	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am not going to replace myself with the statement by the Council of Ministers, which I assume has already been distributed, as regards the set of diplomas that have been approved, with the proposal for a law that has been sent back to the Assembly of the Republic, but basically we have identified a number of situations that were still being discovered in the mesh of extraordinary social protection that had been created. First of all, for the management partners, where, as you know, only identical support had been granted to self-employed persons since they had not employed, this reserve has now been eliminated and a limit has been set, not on the basis of the number of workers — the more they have, the better — but on the volume of turnover, at EUR 80 000. Secondly, as regards the situation of self-employed workers who in the first 12 months of activity could opt to discount or not, we attributed the right to be supported, with the commitment to then make their contribution. Thirdly, also with regard to workers who, either by imposing the employer or by choice of their own, are not properly formalised, we have opened the door of integration into the system, against the commitment to remain in effect. A fourth situation: as you know, there has been a substantial change in the circumstances, in the framework of recent changes to labour legislation, which required us to reduce the guarantee period for access to social unemployment benefit, either for people who were still under experimental conditions, or for termination of employment contract. In general terms, these are the four amendments adopted by the Council of Ministers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u52	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u53	Mr President, Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply and we will certainly see all these cases very carefully. You know it is a concern that the Left Block has been expressing, both in relation to management partners and informal workers who, for some reason, did not make the discounts due. The Council of Ministers' communiqué was published 5 minutes ago, so I did not have the opportunity to meet and, perhaps, I will ask you a question for which there is already a response in the communiqué, but, at this risk, it will have to be. the decree correcting those who are considered risk groups for the purpose of not performing face-to-face work, chronic patients, are excluded hypertensive and diabetic patients without any scientific data explaining this exclusion to us. The question I wanted to ask you is whether by any chance the Council of Ministers had an opportunity to correct this error in its last decree. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u54	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u55	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am glad that she asks me this question because I think there is a misunderstanding about the correction that has been made. As you know, there have been several proposals to speed up, with a dispensation of medical joint or other forms, the justification for failure and the duty to appear at work for a set of chronic patients in three fundamental situations: renal failure, heart failure or situations of cancer. With regard to either hypertension or diabetes, the situation is different, because hypertension is therefore a symptom of another disease and diabetes has different degrees. Therefore, what is said is that people will be entitled to a justified failure on the basis of the statement of their assistant doctor or family doctor. in cases it is automatic, depending on the nature of the disease, in other cases it is not automatic because it depends on the degree. Fortunately, there are various degrees of diabetes and also hypertension, so in these cases they do not cease to be patients at risk, but the risk has to be defined in the concrete situation, for the specific function, by the family doctor or the assistant physician.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u56	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is very true what he says and was already so before, but when the Decree is rectified, removing hypertensive patients and patients with diabetes, a wrong signal is given to both these patients and their employers and doctors. Since we are in a very sensitive period from the point of view of people's rights and the risks they are facing, these wrong signs can lead to wrong decisions that undermine people's health. That is why it is important for us that the government should correct this message, in order to protect the people who are at greater risk at the moment. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about another matter. The response to the crisis always requires options of all kinds. The government has said — and good! — that employment needs to be protected, and we also agree with that. In other words, protecting employment is the first step, not just to avoid the acute social crisis, as it is essential for the economy to recover after the pandemic. But I must say that because it is so important to protect employment, we see very strangely that both the Government and the Socialist Party and the right continue to find it normal and even encourage companies that fire workers can distribute dividends. The PSI-20 companies continue to distribute dividends after they have dispensed precarious workers, companies that are, in fact, distributing profits to shareholders who may not be here on the day these same companies run to ask the State for help, because, as the European Union says, this is the biggest crisis we are experiencing since the Great recession or, as CMVM says, the regulator of the sector, is absolutely unwise to distribute dividends as it was thought before the crisis and not at the time of the crisis. This week is the time when the REN (National Electric Network) prepares to distribute EUR 114 million. Galp has already decided to distribute 300 million euros, even after he has fired precariously. Finally, it is a situation, from our point of view, absolutely unacceptable, because what is being distributed in profits to shareholders is precisely what is now missing or what will be lacking in workers' wages. There are also choices in public money that must be made. There is a social crisis that needs answers and there are certainly criteria for the state's emergencies. Mr Prime Minister, I have already questioned you several times about the financial system and the New Bank. I was told in the last fortnight's debate that it was not possible to make decisions on the New Bank and on more public money injections without getting to know the results of the audit. Now, we are still not aware of these results, the deadlines are going through and beyond and I want to know whether Mr. Prime Minister maintains that there will be no injection into the Resolution Fund and the New Bank until we know the promised audit, which is contracted and has to be public. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u58	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u59	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, either in companies benefiting from the layoff scheme or in companies benefiting from credit lines guaranteed by the State, there can be no layoffs. This is an imposition which we have made and which is contained in these two support measures. In the specific case of companies benefiting from the support of the layoff, they cannot even distribute dividends. As far as the New Bank is concerned, the answer I have to give to it does not bring great news about the last time you asked me the question. In other words, the audit is ongoing and until the results of this audit there will be no strengthening of the State loan to the Resolution Fund for that purpose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u61	Mr President, Prime Minister, let us hope that we will not have to wait much longer for the outcome of the audit to the New Bank — it was also an important factor of public confidence! — but I note that there will be no new injection without the results of this audit. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to tell you that the precariouss are workers like all the others, who need their wages. And, in fact, saying that the distribution of dividends is not allowed in cases where there is Layoff does not help these workers who are losing their salary, and who are to hundreds or thousands in the country, while the same companies that fire them, i.e. that end their contracts, are distributing profits to shareholders. It is not understood, for example, how a government that realized that it was necessary for an income contract that ended in the middle of the pandemic crisis to be automatically extended to the end, because it could not be left homeless in the middle of the crisis, found it normal that large companies could complete temporary contracts, experimental periods or long term contracts without extending them in the middle of the pandemic and still distribute profits to shareholders.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u63	This is all but a fair economy. This is all but letting everyone have an answer. « No one stays behind», this must be our motto. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I don't have much time left, but I have one last question to ask you about insurance, and I know that there is already a decision by the Council of Ministers. With the paralysis, or slowdown, of the economy there are fewer road accidents, but insurance premiums have not come down. what I understand—though, as I said, since it was right now that the Council of Ministers statement was known, I may be mistaken— a requirement is required for the insurance premium to come down. What I'm asking is why this insurance premium cannot go down automatically, since, of course, the costs of insurers also fall automatically.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u64	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u65	I shall finish this, Mr President. As you know, Prime Minister, the financial system always has a way of winning with all crises and therefore it is good not to ease your life and even demand that insurance premiums come down. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u66	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may make a suggestion, I would say that if we could not mark the 15-year debates by Thursday afternoons, this would allow the Prime Minister to have more than 10 minutes between the end of the Council of Ministers and the beginning of this debate and also allow the Ministers. Members will read the Council of Ministers communiqué in good time and perhaps even the diplomas approved there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u68	Or, then, do the debate before, to influence the Council!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u69	You may as well, Mr. Deputies. Or at least I'd appreciate it being a little longer than 10 minutes. Madam Member, on the issue you have raised, the diploma we have approved is precisely intended to allow the premium of insurance to be reflected in the temporary risk reduction resulting from the current situation. That is precisely what we have approved of the diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u70	To put questions by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, before entering the questions we have to ask you, we want to leave a note on 1. the May one, to enhance the initiatives carried out in which workers have made their voice heard, their demands and their struggle for solutions to their problems. We want to appreciate the example of those who have complied with the rules that had been determined by the health authorities and the security forces, the example of those who have stopped being with their families and left their homes to give voice to those who work and struggle for their rights, including those who wanted to participate in this struggle and could not. These are the ones on the right side and they must be building a Portugal where there is no place to hate the workers and to whom they represent and defend them. Mr President, we came from the time of fear where celebrating the forbidden May meant being suppressed, persecuted, arrested or fired, but there were always fighters, always until April linked to May. Keep it going. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the most important message workers brought to the actions of 1. the May was the need for solutions to the social and economic problems that affect the people and the country and that is what we want to question directly the government. Is the government going to ban layoffs and reverse those that happened in recent months? Will, or will not, take measures to ensure that salaries are paid in full, including those in layoff or family care? With regard to working hours, particularly workers who have not stopped working, what will the government do to end exhausting working rhythms and ensure linkage with family life? There are also situations of forced leave, arbitrary cuts and delays in the payment of wages, the justification of layoff for imposing unpaid work. What will the government do to stop these abuses? What guidance and strengthening measures will the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and the inspection action be taken? We insist, Mr Prime Minister, that workers need to respond to their problems and that response must be given to measures that fully meet their needs. As they also need answers from micro and small entrepreneurs, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed workers, many of them without wages, without any support and in absolute despair. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u73	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, first of all, wanted to confirm that the indications we have both from the security forces and from the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ), are that the rules laid down for the celebrations of 1. the May was met by any of the trade union centres and that there was no record of any non-compliance situation. Secondly, with regard to unemployment, the priority must be to safeguard the jobs we have and for this it is essential to protect companies and jobs. The great impact that layoff's measure has had is a good sign that companies have not given up and, above all, that they want to preserve their jobs. We must be able to manage this transition and have a sufficiently robust economic recovery programme that values national production, values our own resources and is highly employment-generating. It was not by decree that we have created 350 000 jobs in the last five years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These 350 000 jobs were created thanks to an economic policy that prioritized the 'employment, employment, employment', the strengthening of investment conditions by the State and, above all, by the private sector, which allowed the creation of more and better jobs, continuously, with an improvement of income by families. We are now suffering a terrible situation that affects companies, affects jobs, affects income and we are well aware that, until we can contain this pandemic situation, we will hardly get out of the situation where we are. So at this moment we have to protect everyone in this situation so that after this past situation we can then, yes, unite efforts, gather the forces and have the muscle necessary to make the recovery of the economy. We have to control it, yes! And that is why 42 inspectors who were in an internship are already in office; that next day 15 will enter stage 80 new inspectors; that we proceed to the request of 72 senior inspectors and technicians for the Labour Conditions Authority, who will begin functions on the next day 11 May; and that over these weeks inspection actions have been repeated by the ACT, having strengthened the administrative and executive competences of the ACT inspectors to prevent any risk of abuse. This is a crisis that affects everyone and that only everyone together can overcome it. Therefore, this cannot be the height of ruptures or abuse, it must, on the contrary, be the time to unite and face reality. The Act has already published rules on timetables and working rhythms and has laid down guidelines and has already clarified that the right to wage and full payment, in time and time, of the wage that is due and that the alternative and support measures are not alternative measures to the duty to pay the wage that is due on time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President — Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u74	Mr President, Prime Minister, the problem of health and safety at work is very serious. It is necessary to ensure that workplaces have safety and health conditions for workers and that there is work medicine. Employers must guarantee personal protective equipment and must not be the workers paying them out of their pocket. What will the government do to ensure these conditions to whom it works? Mr. Prime Minister, we have known days ago that at this most acute stage of combating the epidemic a large number of private hospitals suspended the conventions they had with the SNS. at this critical moment when the public health service "makes the heart tripas" to meet the needs of Portuguese, those private hospitals leave thousands of patients unanswered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u75	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u76	This situation confirms two important ideas. The first is that the SNS is the real guarantee of health for the Portuguese. The second is that it is the investment in the SNS that is the response to the future of health in Portugal. Or the SNS imposes itself on the response to the needs of the patients, or, then, the economic groups and private hospitals will take a giant step in the transformation of health into a business. The CFP therefore proposes an emergency programme for investment in the SNS. In the SNS, it is necessary to create a waiting list recovery programme, in particular for surgeries and treatments, so that private individuals do not need to be used. Will the government move forward in this direction or not? It is necessary to strengthen the number of health professionals so that there is more response capacity. Will the government or will not move to the health professional frameworks that have been hired in time and hire others that are necessary? Finally, will the Government move forward, as the CFP proposes, with the regulation of the penalty and risk allowance, what is so lacking for people working under these conditions? [[PCP applause.]] Mr President — In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u77	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I will reply to you telegraphically, since you still have some time to ask me more questions. As regards safety and health at work, a set of rules for all sectors will be approved within the framework of social consultation and signed this week or next week. For specific sectors, standards validated by the Directorate-General for Health have been defined. It was the case of the agreement we signed last week for the reopening of trade and services, such as optics, hairdressers, barbers and similar. Very soon, we will do the same with AHRESP (Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) regarding the catering services. As for the National Health Service, we continue to bet on its robustness and once again proved that it is even the guarantee that all Portuguese have, of access and response, even in dramatic situations like these we are living. over the last four years, it was possible to restore investment cuts in the National Health Service. in the year 2020, the State budget should not be forgotten, made a greater contribution to the initial allocation of the National Health Service — plus EUR 900 million. over the last five years, we hired more 17 334 professionals for the National Health Service. To respond to this crisis, we expedited contracts — we hired more than 2450 health professionals, such as doctors, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, technical assistants, operational assistants, nurses — and what we want is to keep these new resources at the service of the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President — Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u78	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we would like to talk to you about the problem of transport conditions, particularly the lack of security conditions in which many people have been forced to move to work in recent days. The images that we have seen recently, a crowded bus of people who have been waiting for more than two hours, are the most dramatic example of the situation you are experiencing. Public transport undertakings have taken measures to restore careers and links so that those who travel can do so safely and comply with health standards. Some private operators have not only refused to reintroduce transport, as they still make it an excuse to require the State more than a million euros of subsidy. It is easy to force the use of masks in transport and even to apply fines if then people have to be piled up because there are not enough careers and connections to be transported under appropriate conditions. We ask: what will the government do to ensure that people wear masks, but that they also see careers and returned connections, so that the rules can be met with a transport in condition? [[PCP applause.]] Mr President — In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u79	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, we have been particularly attentive. We have adopted measures for companies that are of public management, such as CP ( Trains of Portugal ), and we have accompanied the extraordinary effort of the metropolitan areas in particular, and of the municipalities as to the conditions in which they did so in the transports that are under their management. And I know that the transport authorities, whether national or metropolitan, are acting in relation to private services to ensure the improvement of supply, the limits of lotion to be set and the conditions of hygiene and safety. There will be no resumption of the normal activity of our society if there is no normalization of public transport services and if people do not feel safe in them. With the measures to reduce tariffs and the social pass, for the first time, we conquered thousands of citizens for public transport. It was an extraordinary contribution to reducing CO2 emissions, to more sustainable mobility and to achieving carbon neutrality. Mr President — I would ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. We cannot now lose, by mismanagement or by reducing supply and security conditions, the confidence we were rebuilding with the Portuguese in their public transport. This is an opportunity that cannot be lost and everyone, public or private, must comply. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u81	To put questions, you now have the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, we have heard Mr Prime Minister say that « Portugal will have to produce again what has been used to importing from China ». And for all the reasons, we couldn't agree any more. But I confess, Prime Minister, that we are confused and, therefore, we cannot help but ask you some questions related to the choices your Government has taken, these options which, not only contradict what you have stated, as are an authentic « China business », but only for some. It is, for example, the case of masks, which in the coming days will be part of our daily lives. But it remains to be known at what price for people. I give you a very concrete example: someone who buys a mask, daily in the metropolitan area, will have a monthly cost of €66, representing more than 10 % of the national minimum wage — 10 %, Prime Minister, of the monthly income of a worker! The Minister for Economic Affairs said that Portugal was, however, producing 1 million masks a day and that the industry was already exporting. It is indeed very good to see Portuguese companies resume their activity. However, this arithmetic option does not make much sense to us. Mr Prime Minister, why are we exporting masks when, on the market, we still have a price of seven times higher than before the crisis? This, instead of ensuring and prioritising access to an affordable cost to this essential asset in order to protect our population and, on the other hand, to ensure our own autonomy in terms of production. The Order of Physicians and the Independent Medical Union have reported the serious deficiencies of this protective equipment in the National Health Service. 83% of doctors refer to the absence of individual protective equipment — Reitera, Prime Minister, the absence of individual protective equipment — in the services and data we have told us there are more than 550 doctors, 800 nurses and 1200 operational assistants infected. So we ask you: have you, in fact, set some action plan to ensure that these needs do not fail again in the foreseeable future waves of contamination? Still with regard to the masks, Mr Prime Minister, we cannot fail to ask you a question. at a time when so many companies face difficulties, the Directorate-General for Health decided to make a direct adjustment for the purchase of masks, worth more than 9 million euros, to the company Quilaban, owned by a person with links to the Socialist Party. The reason for the direct adjustment was that, and I quote, « imperative urgency ». However, the period of implementation shall be nine months. We are not talking about the manufacture of fans or heavy equipment, but rather a common mask that at this time should be accessible to all Portuguese people. How is the existence of this direct adjustment based on a « imperative urgency », Mr Prime Minister, when the contractual period is January 2021, and when on the other hand the company intended to deliver the masks by the end of April? The delivery has already happened, has it not? What if the delivery period is so long, why did the government not, for example, resort to the European purchasing power plant to improve the conditions of acquisition for the country and to protect our citizens? Finally, on this subject, I would like to ask: Does the Government consider whether or not to carry out an independent investigation into this business? For further time, according to the public procurement portal, does this company already account for nearly 2200 contracts amounting to about 55 million euros? It is that the « business of China », in Portugal, Mr. Prime Minister, are only for some.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u83	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that recently I had the opportunity to clarify that the so-called 'European shopping centre' has not yet been able to acquire a single good, much less available. That is why we resort to a figure provided for in the Public Contracts Code—as you well know, because it is an illustrious jurist—that is the direct adjustment. We have decided, precisely because of the exceptionality of this situation and the volume of what we had to acquire. He knows how many masks—and only masks! - have we acquired so far? It was 41 million masks! Therefore, before telling you that there is a lack of material or that the same was acquired from this or that company, I tell you that this material was acquired from several companies and that masks have already been acquired 41 million. That is why we have created a very specific framework of transparency. Thus, contrary to the provisions of the Public Contracts Code, in which this is not mandatory, we commit ourselves, and we are fulfilling, to disclose the contracts on the portal and, secondly, to submit a report, specifying, for each contract, the concrete justification for each of them. So you will surely be able to have all the information you need. As for national production today, fortunately, we are already producing 1 million masks in our country as a whole, thanks to our industry. And, in relation to the price at which they are being sold, that price varies a lot. The Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition told me that this weekend in a supermarket, he has seen the disposables at 45 cents of the unit. I bought one, at 1, 36 €, about three weeks ago, in a pharmacy. It's obvious that anyone who buys a sales machine at the subway entrance will pay more than anyone buys in a supermarket. But this happens with the mask, with a bottle of water, with a chocolate or any product. It is obvious that this is the case. That is why we said that the massification of production was very important. It is that, with this massification of production, the products can also reach the shelves of hypermarkets and supermarkets, making their acquisition accessible. That's what's fundamental. And, from the moment that this production exists, it is properly certified and people can increasingly acquire it, the price will surely regulate. We have already fixed the permissible profit margin and tomorrow comes into force the reduction of the VAT rate approved in this House. On the other hand, I wanted to tell you that the national production effort is not exhausted in the masks, it also extends to the individual protective equipment, to the fans, to the kits to perform diagnostic tests. And it is in this joint effort that we must continue without insinuations and with clarity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u85	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real continued to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u86	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with regard to the shortage of goods, it is not we who say so, but rather the Order of Doctors and the Independent Medical Union. Mr President, we have already been informed about transport, but there is still an issue that we would like to see clarified, because the challenge we now have is not only to contain the health crisis and regain the economy, but also to do without returning to unsustainable models of mobility. If we do not guarantee at this stage that people have confidence to walk in public transport, that they are accessible and that there are careers in time and time, we will do nothing to meet the goals of decarbonization. We cannot have citizens afraid of using public transport and we need to adapt not only our work but also our economy to this reality. in this sense, we would like to know, from a health perspective, of reconciling work and family life and, even environmental, whether or not the government is available to revisit the use of telework, in order to adopt a solution beyond the outbreak that may exist or even a new pandemic wave of the coronavirus, and, if so, what the government is doing to facilitate also the mobility of citizens, particularly in terms of strengthening and restoring existing careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u87	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u88	Mr President, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, as you know, we have maintained the obligation of telework until the end of May for all activities that can be maintained in telework. We said, moreover, that the return to presence work should always be partial, in order to be alternated, for weeks or mornings and afternoons, in different shifts. We hope that this experience will be positive, that we can all evaluate it and that, in the future, regardless of whether there is a pandemic crisis, telework mechanisms can be extended further. With regard to public transport, the supply of public transport managed by public authorities is fully restored. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u89	We have moved on to the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, so you have the floor to ask questions, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u90	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin by registering with pleasure the extension of the support to workers who have their jobs and who were out of these support — it is a concern of the Greens since the beginning, but I think that still would be interesting to know, because the communiqué does not mention it either, if this enlargement will take effect from March, since it will only make little sense from now on. I therefore leave this question to you. Mr. Prime Minister, two days ago, the Government sent a document to the schools, with a view to preparing for the return to the present classes. Now, since these guidelines mix with the working hours of teachers and non-teachers, and with their working conditions, it would be at least reasonable that these measures had been constructed in dialogue with their representative structures. What I am asking, Prime Minister, is whether there has been any government delicacy in this regard, because the result is in sight: the confusion seems to have settled until before the return. With this document, the schools did not know how many disciplines they would have to learn in 11. year. In fact, at the same time as it is said, and I quote, « that all classes of disciplines with national examination are carried out at present», it is also said that « students attend these disciplines, regardless of their examinations ». That is, one week from the return, neither the teachers nor the students of the 11th. the year knows whether they will have attend classes only to the two disciplines to which they are required to take national examinations or whether they will have to join them with examinations no 12. year. This creates confusion and certainly makes it difficult for those who have to organize all the return, who are the teachers and the directions of the schools. I ask, therefore, with all objectivity, that present classes will have to attend the students of 11. year. Even on this subject, Mr Prime Minister, it is anticipated that teachers at risk can learn at a distance, and in these cases be assisted in the presence of teachers to be hired. Mr. Prime Minister, do you think there are teachers to hire within a week? Is this really viable?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u92	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, unfortunately, I believe that there will now be more teachers available to be hired than before.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u93	A week? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u94	On the other hand, today, the Government has also approved, for consultation, both to the school councils and to the trade union structures, a diploma that regulates the reopening of the school year. The confusion is explained, I think, in a simple way. First: what disciplines will be taught in person? Answer: all those who are subject to examination at the end of this school year. Secondly, as you know, students do not take any examinations of all these disciplines, each one takes tests of the disciplines which are nuclear or essential for the course they want to attend. We admit that in my curriculum, there are five disciplines that are susceptible to examination, but I only have to take two for the course I want to attend. The school has to ensure the face-to-face lesson of all the disciplines with examination, because there are my colleagues who will take on other disciplines than mine; I must go to the five disciplines, but I will only be examined at the two of the course I intend to carry out. So there is a distinction between the disciplines in which I am examined and the disciplines I have to attend. I think I was relatively clear for all of us to understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u95	Let's hope it passes the exams!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u96	Mr. José Luís Ferreira continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u97	Mr President, Prime Minister, I did not say there were no teachers, the question is that we have a week to hire teachers. Therefore, the question was not as well as it was put. Anyway, Prime Minister, school directors are all saying that this is in great confusion and, therefore, although it has now been clarified. I note, however, that Mr Prime Minister did not answer the question I put about the managers of the workers, but he will certainly answer in this second round. On the issue of public transport, Mr Prime Minister, which has already been addressed here, it was very important not to lose the pedal we were with before the crisis began and therefore it was good to invest seriously in public transport. In fact, at this stage it was necessary to ensure that people could go to work and be able to comply with the rules of the Directorate-General for Health. Mr. Prime Minister, as expected, even when the country begins to move, the internal market will take a long time to reach desirable levels, since a very significant universe of families has lost purchasing power, or because they have been deprived of some of their income, especially by workers under the layoff regime, or because they have simply been unemployed, and many even without any social support. But without internal search, without internal market, the life of small businesses...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u98	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, without internal demand, without internal market, the life of small businesses will become very critical, because they depend heavily on the internal market. I would like to know what measures the Government is considering after the crisis for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u100	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u101	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, I believe there is one thing we all have to take: we are reinventing a school year, in which the world has changed. So, if I wonder if we are performing a properly prepared, programmed and planned action for years to be now implemented, as you know, we are not. On 12 March, we had to make the decision that, from 16 March, schools were closing; we said that on 9 April, we would make a reassessment; we all reassessed and agreed that these molds should be reopened and, since then, we are making a very great effort for schools to open in the best possible conditions. in the same way, a huge effort was also made to complement with an educational offer, via television, the offer that teachers were making, in direct contact with their students, by digital platforms, by phone, by telephone, by mail, by all forms and by some. So we've all been reinventing ourselves. If you ask if we will reopen schools under normal conditions, of course not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u102	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u103	Only the fact that the use of the mask is mandatory will soon transform the way the school will open into an abnormality. But it is clear that we will all have to make a great effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u104	That's not what I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u105	You don't need to take off the mask, Mr. Deputies. With regard to the question of the application of the measure to the management partners, it shall apply from now on for one month renewable up to six months. As regards micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the effort we are making, together with these measures that are especially applicable to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is precisely designed to create the best possible conditions for them to remain active. For example, from next week a line of Community funds, specifically dedicated to microenterprises, will be opened to pay all the expenses they have incurred since March to now, and will continue to carry out, for the acquisition of personal protective equipment for their workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u106	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u107	... in hygiene measures for its customers, in contracts for regular cleaning and hygiene of spaces, because it is essential — and I will now conclude, Mr President — that people have confidence not only to walk in public transport, but also to enter restaurants, to enter stores, and this naturally requires an increased effort by these companies, either by themselves or by third parties. All this is covered by this measure, specifically directed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u108	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u109	... so that you do not have to bear the cost that corresponds to them, when you have to buy individual protective equipment for the gel workers or dispensers, or soap and towels in quantity for all your customers, by rearranging the layout of your establishments, taking into account that many of them will have a more limited lot. We are therefore also supporting, and we must continue to support this effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u110	It is Mr Ventura's turn to ask questions. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u111	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I did not want to start this debate like this, but here is an initial note: Mrs Catarina Martins, our ideas will never be as disgusting as those of minors with marijuana or humiliate the security forces whenever something happens. My salaries will never be local housing or fictitious dwellings in Parliament — you can be sure of that! I also want to tell you something else, Mrs Catarina Martins: if the trash can of history send the Arrival there, looking at today's polls and yesterday's, the faster your bench will all go to the trash can than ever will arrive. Thank you very much for that. Mr Prime Minister, yes, I am addressing you now: we have a problem with the Gypsy community in Portugal and therefore I would like to ask you what the Government is planning to do with the repeated failure we have seen in several parts of the country in the Alentejo, in Lisbon, in the North — by the Roma communities. I ask you, does the government think or does not do anything about it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u112	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u113	Mr President, Mr. André Ventura, we disagree on the assumption. It is because we have no problem with the Gypsy community in Portugal, we have problems in Portugal with people who either meet or do not comply with health standards. [[Congrats from PS, BE Beatriz Gomes Dias and MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The answer we have to have with these people, whatever their ethnicity, whatever their place of life, whatever their origin, whatever their religion, whatever their race, is very simple: the law is to comply and must be applied to all alike. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u114	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u115	Mr. President, Prime Minister, it is exciting to see the Left Block agree with you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u116	It's not just the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u117	Mr Prime Minister, I ask you again: do you agree that there is a problem with the Gypsy community in Portugal? [[Protests by PS Member Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u118	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u119	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, no, there is no problem with the Roma community in Portugal. The honourable Member is that you have a problem that has already been a problem. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u120	Mr André Ventura continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u121	Mr President, Prime Minister, I don't know if the populations of Figueira da Foz, of Moura, of Portalegre, of Beja, of Elvas have found much grace to joke, but it may be so. I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, whether the news that came out today with regard to the Secretary of State, that he would have put in a joint for the acquisition of tests, are or will not be true and whether he will maintain confidence in his Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u122	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u123	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, yes, I maintain confidence in the members of the government, otherwise they would not be members of the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u124	In the use of the word, Mr André Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u125	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, very well, I am glad that we have been informed about this. One last question concerns debts. We had mentioned, in the last debate here, particularly with the Minister of Economy, that we would make an effort, in this last segment, to pay off debts to suppliers. It is now recognised by all, I think, even by the Government, that there is a great deal to be done in this matter. Mr Prime Minister replied to me in the last fortnight's debate that we were making a phased, integrated effort to pay those debts. Thousands of people, thousands of companies today look at the government that owes them millions and that is one of the biggest debtors of the European Union in debt to businesses and suppliers, especially in the health sector, and should ask the following: where and how are these payments being made? What is the deadline, if there is a deadline, for the final payment of these debts to the private?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u126	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u127	When can we finally get a light at the bottom of the tunnel about this?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u128	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u129	Mr President, Mr André Ventura, as you know at the end of the year, the State has made a great effort, in fact, by capitalising the hospitals-enterprises, to be able to pay and significantly reduce that amount of debt. At the end of March, the total debt was 433 million, less 312 million than in March last year and less than 180 million than in February, i.e. the state is paying, it will continue to pay and it will even continue to make an effort to reduce payment deadlines. On the other hand, Mr President, I would like to say the following: I did not say a grace, but I did say what is true. The honourable Member has decided to create a case with an important part of the Portuguese, which is the Gypsy community, as if they were foreigners and not knowing that, for centuries, they are as Portuguese as any of us, and what they got was a response to the height of a great national champion and a great player of our Selection. [[P.S., BE, and P.N. Applause.]] In fact, it is very bad to lose when, after taking a Lent dance, the only answer you had to give was to tell him that being a player of the National Selection, he was only obliged to be quiet. Don't! The right to speak and the right of opinion is a freedom of everyone: yours, Lent, mine or anyone else. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u130	To put questions, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, I am going back to TAP because I thought I had heard all the versions, but today I have learned one more. I have already heard the useful version, which I think is that of the representatives of the State, which, I suppose, continue, with all the confidence of the Government, in the company itself, who are desperate, want money in the form of financing, money itself, guarantees of the State. I've heard the most militant version, without any surprise, of the Minister of Guards, which the state wants to send. Therefore, we only do not know whether nationalization will be done by the end of the year or some time after that. Today, we have heard the poetic version, embodied in this extraordinary phrase that Mr. Prime Minister said here: "If there is anything, TAP will fly in national colors. » This is on the border of populism, let me tell you, Prime Minister. "Whatever there is" is a very serious and serious expression. Then, the reasons given are the following: it has to serve the diaspora, it has to guarantee territorial continuity, it has to be geostrategicly relevant and it has to favor the creation of a hub. We must already have a lot of grief from countries such as the United States of America, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Spain, Switzerland, which do not have national companies, Prime Minister. Or even the United Kingdom or the Netherlands which not only have national companies, as they have of the largest airport hubs in the world. We must be sorry for them already! So I say to you only, Mr Prime Minister, that I give you an opportunity to correct this expression, because "there is nothing" is certainly not. If it costs EUR 2000 million, what is very likely in the coming years, an entry into the TAP, we will do it the same and we will spend money on taxpayers? And if there are 4000 or 5000, will there be "anything", Prime Minister? « Whatever there is», will there be a TAP with participation of public money?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u132	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u133	Mr President, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, I thank you for the poetic image.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u134	It wasn't a compliment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u135	He touched his emotions and, after hearing here on April 25, I know he's a man of emotions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u136	I knew it before!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u137	I would like to stress the following: if we had the size of the United States internal market, perhaps we could do without what we have ; if we had the geographical position of other countries in central Europe, perhaps we could do without it. We all saw how SABENA ( Société Anonymous Belge d'Exploitation de la Navigation Aérienne ) failed a week and reopened, next week, as Brussels Airlines. It happens that we have neither the size of the United States internal market nor our geographical position is at the heart of Europe, nor also an airport infrastructure, as some countries have, that whether or not they have an airline, by its location and by its centrality and size, will always fly, have or not an airline, because airlines cannot stop going there. That is why, whatever we have, the size we have, the geographical position we have, the geopolitical insertion we have, we will never be able to avoid having an airline flying in national colors. I'm sorry about poetry, but that's really what it's like to be realistic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u138	We have thus reached the end of this fortnightly debate. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the members of the Government here present. We will enter the second item on our agenda, which is part of the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the exceptional and temporary response measures to the pandemic of the disease COVID-19 and the Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as amended by Laws Nos 4 -A / 2020 and 4 - B / 2020, both of 6 April, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. To open the debate, I have the floor of the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, and I also welcome her.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 3 May last, we entered a new phase of prevention and combating the COVID-19 pandemic, which, for more than two months, forced the Portuguese to make an unprecedented effort on behalf of the safety and health of all of us. Thanks to this effort, and in a context of an extended commitment between the different sovereignty bodies, it was possible to contain the pandemic and ensure the safety of Portuguese, thus making it possible to initiate a strategy of survey, which will be slow and gradual, of the measures taken in the context of the state of emergency. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with a view to the end of the state of emergency and without prejudice to the continued application of many of the extraordinary measures we have adopted in order to ensure an effective response to the pandemic, it is necessary to ensure that the legislative solutions adopted meet the needs of the new moment we live. The present bill therefore updates the provisions of Law No 1 -A / 2020 and, on the one hand, includes measures which had been taken in government decrees regulating the state of emergency. in this proposal, it is concluded that until 30 June the suspension of the deadlines of the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of leasers is necessary; it is reaffirmed the strengthened power of the ACT established during the period of emergency, determining the non-continuation of the contract of work in cases where the Act concludes and notifys by signs of unlawful dismissal; it is given to the Government the power to take measures to contain and limit the market in a defined set of goods — gas, medical devices, individual protective equipment, ethyl alcohol and disinfectant solutions — particularly pressed at this time of pandemic; it is resumed, within the framework of the justice system, counting of the deadlines, observing, where possible, the practice of acts by means of distance communication and, when impossible, with the compliance of the rules defined by DGS; and, finally, it is defined a specific regime for the administrative deadlines which has been suspended by the law that has now changed. The government is and will continue to strive to adapt the responses to the pandemic crisis and its constraints, just as we are and we will continue to be committed to the determination of an extended spirit of commitment, which is the spirit that the moment calls upon us and that the Portuguese demand us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u140	I would like to congratulate the members of the Government present, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen and all the others. To submit Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a, from the PS, has the floor Mr Pedro Delgado Alves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Secretaries of State : Basically, the legislative initiative presented aims to ensure the urgency in dealing with some of the matters which the Government has just noted. Under the procedural rules, it is urgent that some of these matters, including those relating precisely to lease contracts, authorization for market limitation measures in the most pressed sectors and the strengthening of the powers of the Act, may immediately be adopted in the three votes today. To this end, it was necessary to present a bill for this purpose which, in all, corresponds to the objectives pursued by the Government, with one or more amendments already resulting from the specialty work that we have been anticipating. in this sense, there is a convergence with a view to ensuring the greatest urgency in these issues. The de facto issue of judicial deadlines and administrative deadlines has a greater complexity, so it seems to us to be more mature and informed that specialist work can be done with a view to approval next week. We already know of many contributions that we have received from other judicial operators, several parliamentary groups have also made proposals that are constructive and that they seem to us to be in the process of improving the solution presented by the Government. Therefore, we also look forward, as soon as possible, to conclude this procedure, by meeting the expectations of judicial operators who normally have doubts about the outcome of suspensions of expiry and prescription deadlines, on the one hand, but also because of the need to have very clear measures on the functioning of the courts, to ensure the health and safety of all those who have to be present in face proceedings. In addition, we also incorporate a proposal that enables professional orders to suspend the quotas of their members, where, by deliberation of the executive body, they have this weight made. Therefore, we are enabling something that some institutions have already done and which extends to the rest to enable this period to be better guarded. With regard to some of the amendments tabled, and since we are in some way anticipating the debate in the specialty, I would just say the following: there are proposals from the CDS and the CFP on support for lawyers, which we understand because of their urgency, need and urgency, in a framework where we know the reality of a sector in which there is a private safety box, with its own rules, which is not common, because they are not the same as those of social security. Therefore, it has different financing rules and different rules regarding benefits. However, there is a question that seems to us to be difficult to overcome and that is effectively linked to compliance with constitutional legislation, in particular with the norm of Article 167. the Constitution, paragraph 2, on the possibility of increasing expenditure in the current economic year from parliamentary initiatives. It is a matter to which we are sensitive and it is the only reason why we cannot follow the meaning of these proposals, since it cannot strike through constitutionality, which is an unmistakable aspect. Of course, we understand that the answers must be given and that it is essential to find a solution, at present, for the people who face this difficulty, of course, and also to make a fundamental reflection on the model we want for the Counsel and Applicants' Safety Box, as regards its outcome and integration with social security. It is not possible to follow this up in today's debate, but we hope that it will be possible, as soon as possible, to find solutions that will protect everyone and give a solution in accordance with the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u142	For an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate around this bill is a good example of the inconsistencies that the government sometimes demonstrates in combating COVID-19. On the one hand, it recognises the serious health situation in which we find ourselves, with the continuation of cases of infection in our country and with the unforeseeability of the final moment of the disease, but on the other hand, forces the return to normality at all costs, as if this depended on any legislative impulse. Moreover, this is easily perceptible when we find that we are trying to give a certain and determined deadline for the end of the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of tenants, initially by 30 June and then at the last hour until 30 September. This, as if, at a distance of several months, could accurately perceive the evolution of the virus that afflicts us all. Unless the government has a crystal ball that we don't know... For the NAP, the response to this and other matters in the context of the State's action to combat COVID-19 is directly related to the time when the state of calamity was in force — so it was when the state of emergency was in force — to which it must necessarily add another, which we propose to be three months, reporting it as reasonable for society to adapt. But the debate around this bill is also a good example of how the Government and the Socialist Party have disregarded the constructive role of the opposition in the context of this health crisis, which is also easily perceived when we now see measures and proposals being taken as their own, since long ago identified and presented by various parties in this House, but which were then rejected. A very little democratic exercise, notes. Not on the contrary, one of the proposals has precisely to do with the strengthening of the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority, a measure which the NAP, almost two months ago, publicly defended in a warning framework for the need to safeguard labour rights and conditions, despite the absolutely exceptional period in which we live. What did the Government and the Socialist Party do? They woke up, as if by charm, as in a childhood story, a long time later... only that they do not find everything the same, but rather manifestly aggravated conditions. We can give other examples, such as those of the tools given to professional orders so that they could solve a pressing problem related to suspension or reduction of members' quotas. For example, as mentioned yesterday, the case of lawyers, prosecutors and enforcement officers whose forced stop has revealed the immense difficulties that these professionals need to go through for the proper functioning of justice. Despite the lack of openness of the Government and the Socialist Party to accept the proposals that we consider necessary and that are claimed by civil society, but for which they even retreat as if, after that, it was the greatest advance, we continue with the constructive spirit we have assumed since the first day of the legislature, to contribute responsibly with solutions. It is in this sense that we want to emphasize a proposal for an amendment, which we have here today, absolutely necessary, and which is linked to the creation of support for non-individual lords who, by legal imposition, have seen their closed commercial establishments and their tenants as a result of the health crisis, not to be able to pay their income and to create justified causes for non-payment without aid being provided to them. We thus defend, like what we did a week ago, this is an answer that has to be given and we hope that this will deserve the House's welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u144	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u145	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The defination, which we have now begun, actually implies a relief from the containment measures adopted and a gradual return to normality also in the justice system. To this end, it makes sense that the deadlines and the delays that were suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic are now resumed, returning to a number of challenges to be carried out at present, observing the rules defined by the DGS. But this must be done in view of the safeguarding of citizens, lawyers and other justice officers whose rights may be limited if this resumption of deadlines is not properly prepared. We therefore propose that the deadlines that were suspended so continue for 15 days after the entry into force of this law, a reasonable period for everyone to be able to prepare and report properly. And we welcome the opportunity to incorporate the many contributions which have reached Parliament in this specific area of time. Still, defination does not justify everything. It does not justify, for example, that market limitation measures, such as the fixing of maximum prices, are adopted when it is obvious that such fixing will only lead to a shortage. It is also not justified to strengthen the powers of the Working Conditions Authority, which, in fact, would give the Authority power to suspend dismissals, i.e. to give authority to an administrative authority to replace a court. And because we want to preserve the functioning of the economy and the rule of law, and if any of these measures remain in the final drafting of the law, we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u146	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously to welcome the executive's enormous effort to defend today, which should have begun to defend since the beginning of the state of emergency: to avoid violating the rights of workers and workers. This will require something: these objectives of strengthening the means and powers of the Working Conditions Authority, also ensuring that the rights and guarantees of workers must be retroactive, must also cover those who have already been dismissed, those who have witnessed impunity for the violation of their rights, and those entities must also be held accountable. I also support the Executive's objective of establishing budgetary limits for materials and devices essential for combating pandemics, avoiding excesses and speculation, but in this regard it is also important, at this very moment, to establish specific rules with regard to the lease market, because access to housing is also a key element in ensuring containment and defination in the best conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u148	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u149	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: This afternoon's debate on the lease was polluted. It is not true that the proposals that are on the table and that we are discussing are extending the time that is already laid down in the law. On the contrary, the proposals shorten the period of protection for tenants. What the law says is simple: as long as there are mitigation measures, whether in a state of emergency, disaster or even alert, this suspension is in place. It will only cease to apply when the mitigation measures are explicitly withdrawn, which will most likely remain until 30 June or 31 July. Or will the Government propose that there should no longer be a special duty of protection through social confinement or distancing from the end of July? That is why and because of the relevance that a house has in these mitigation measures that the law was drafted in this way, so what we see here is actually a retreat from the government partially corrected by the Socialist Party. I would also like to ask, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the mitigation measures are no longer necessary, if the distancement and physical confinement are no longer advised. In the prevention exercise that we are asked to exercise, we must assume that we cannot at the moment define when there will be conditions, or what states will happen to the emergency and disaster, or what public health measures will be necessary. And in order to comply with public health measures it is necessary to have a home and to ensure that people can keep the home they live in without having to expose themselves to another housing. And this issue is even more worrying in a situation where we already know that many people will lose their income and cannot cope with the documentation and values requested, right at the head, when a new house is rented. It is therefore disturbing that the first option taken by this Government has been to amend this suspension rather than propose that, for example, support for payment of income or that the suspension of payment of income is all intermediated by the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitacion Urbana), among others. We thus realize that the Government and the Socialist Party still do not recognize the responsibility of people who do not protect themselves because they do not have a house to do so. But worse, it adds crisis to the crisis, removing the protection given in this exceptional time to this public health agent that is the home of each person. About 1 million and 200,000 people live in the private lease market, through a law that does not protect them at the moment. Now, bringing the debate measures to withdraw protection at this exceptional time is to continue to realize that the problem of housing does not exist and therefore insist on deepening a housing crisis. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is as good as it is right now, and that is what we are proposing: stay! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u150	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u151	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the following about this bill, now in some specific way: its substantial part, the part of the lion, so to speak, has in fact to do with the legal deadlines and the return of the judicial activity. We consider this return very important, but we are not insensitive to the many criticisms we have heard. That is to say, as far as the challenges that should be present, made in a virtual or remote way, they need to work, but what many judges have said is that they are not working, nor are there conditions for putting them to work. To say that if they cannot be done remotely they must be done in a face-to-face way raises the same doubts we have had in relation to many other activities: where are the means of security? Where are the conditions of distance? Where are the masks? There is a need for some weighting in the part which will go to the specialty, the part relating to the deadlines and including whether the suspension of these deadlines would obviously not involve some type of holiday leis, i.e. a period of adaptation, as important professional institutions also propose. As we focus on the question of justice, I would like to say that the CDS uses this discussion to speak again on the question of lawyers and applicants — we already realize that we will not be accompanied by the Socialist Party — because, in fact, if there are many Portuguese people who have not yet received support, in this case we are talking about a profession that has been left out of all sorts of support, which does not have the same support that other independent professionals have. Therefore, the CDS resumes this proposal here. It is a matter that, obviously, we will not give up. I would also like to say that all these discussions and all these matters, whether the question of renting, whether the issue of market control, deserve no greater objection — there is nothing to question very significant there — but, of course, the way we are having this discussion tells us something very obvious: that is that we are always discussing exceptions to exceptions, and there are many exceptions already. Even I repeat something I have already said this afternoon during the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister : I believe that we, Parliament, will have to do an exceptional follow-up to all these exceptional measures, which are going through exceptional contracts, which are going through special rules, etc. In other words, the exceptional COVID-19 regime must also have an exceptional parliamentary follow-up and, therefore, I repeat it here, until some sources have understood it correctly, which the CDS proposes is not an investigation. What we are proposing is a possible committee to make a special and exceptional follow-up of all the exceptionality involved in this same subject and in this same discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u152	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u153	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It would be important for this proposal to have a stronger impact on two areas. The first one has to do with the ACT. If it is essential to strengthen its means, particularly with regard to redundancies, it is also essential that this strengthening does not amount to more bureaucracy in the future. That is, we have a large part of the companies accusing the State of creating a bureaucratic hell and we cannot allow the increase in competences, the strengthening of means and the strengthening of the structure of the ACT to become an increase in bureaucracy. The state has a moral and legal duty to prevent this bureaucracy from becoming a hell of a deal for entrepreneurs. On the question of justice, the lifting of suspensions, deadlines and organization, it is clear that the Government and the Minister of Justice have made it clear that we will have a progressive resumption, but the Minister of Justice himself said that it would be foreseeable, after confinement, we will have a large flow of proceedings, not only of litigation with the State, but also of another type of procedure. This raises fundamental questions that the Advocates' Order, among others, has raised in recent weeks, such as knowing that additional means will be made available to them so that these procedures can be effectively carried out without jeopardizing the health, life and integrity of these professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u154	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u155	I will finish, Madam President. That is to say, we may want this recovery in justice, and we all want it, but the government has a duty to ensure that these means are the right means to ensure the safety of professionals.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u156	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u157	Madam President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I think we all agree that courts and justice have to work again. The question on which we should also agree is whether or not this resumption should be progressive and gradual — obviously, it should be progressive and gradual — not sacrificing the safety of people or the reliability of judicial decisions. I believe that the Government's proposal does not have this filter, it has this original sin, which is therefore something unwise. Unregulated recourse to telejustice is not a solution for all evils, as is evident, until justice, only by sound and image, is still a mirage. Therefore, for the PSD, the rule should always be the realization of presenceal inquiries, provided that the health rules of all procedural actors are safeguarded. And when we opt for videoconferencing, for videoconferencing, they must be made from a court, whatever it is, to ensure the reliability of the testimonies and for all of us to realize—in particular the judge who is presiding over this hearing—that there are no external influences there and that the person who is testifying has no knowledge of previous situations of the process. It is clear that, in some cases, in those of those who are older — 70 years old — and in risk groups, the testimony must be made not through a court but through the household. But these are the exceptions. These are our proposals, which seem very sensible to us, and we call for them to be accepted in committee next week. On the other hand, I think that we should never dispense, in the realizations of presenceal demands, the means of individual protection that the courts should have: masks and disinfectant gel. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government yesterday, the Minister of Justice—I don't know if it was a grace— said it would be the lawyers who should give, buy, supply, provide these masks to their customers. It is good to know that within the courts, which are State institutions, the government is responsible for the security of what is happening there. On the other hand, with regard to lawyers, the proposal submitted by the CDS was also submitted by the PSD. It is a challenge that I leave to the Minister, who, this morning, was meeting in the Council of Ministers, where it was decided that self-employed workers on a non-contributory basis, those who did not contribute to social security, were entitled to extraordinary support. Our proposal replicates and reproduces exactly what you today, in the Council of Ministers, decided for the other independent workers. And now I want to see how the Socialist Party is going to vote on this proposal. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, it seems to us that the Socialist Party's bill, with regard to ACT, is unacceptable and of very doubtful constitutionality. Can an administrative authority be exercising judicial functions and issuing technical and legal judgments on the legality or non-legality of dismissals? Oh, my God! This could even be done, but it is not balanced to put the whole burden on employers, that—see! — they are obliged to maintain active and valid and valid contracts and pay the wage to the worker for years at a time until a court decision says that employers are right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u158	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u159	I'm done now, Madam President. Workers must be protected, but always on an equal footing with employers. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u160	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since these are initiatives that deal with very different subjects, we might like to start by making a synthesis of everything under discussion. With regard to social benefits and measures being taken to address the economic and social problems resulting from the pandemic, the CFP believes that it is wrong to start defining rules of validity for each of them. The measures will last a long time, the impacts will last a long time, and it was preferable to find a single definition for the duration of all economic and social response measures as long as the measures to prevent and combat the pandemic are maintained, even though over time the measures should have a different modeling and have different conditions of application. We believe that the option of starting to lay down rules of validity for each of the measures alone is a wrong option and, of course, we will try to contribute, with our initiative and our proposals, so that this will have another way. On the questions of justice, Madam Minister, I must tell you that we are concerned about how these issues have been dealt with and, above all, how the rules that have been defined do not, unfortunately, coincide with the conditions and means that are in practice to enforce them. With the process of discussion of the proposed law in the field of speciality, there may be time to properly resolve what needs to be resolved properly, but it will never be enough if the conditions for the functioning of justice are not adequate to what the law defines. Mr. Minister, the conditions of the courts are not the same from north to south of the country, and today these difficulties are evident. There are reports of procedural inquiries that are made with the use of applications on the court's phone, reports of procedural inquiries that are made with the collection of testimony of parties and witnesses in which, then, suddenly, it is discovered that the chat of the application of the videoconferencing is being used to condition the statement that is being made. This is not just operational problems of distance media, they are problems of security and legal certainty in judicial proceedings, which, of course, are not problems of little importance and cannot be sidelined. On the other hand, Mrs. Minister, the parties and the procedural subjects do not have all the same perspectives of the process and of course they will, under different conditions, make use of them for their benefit and for the benefit of their objectives in the intervention they have in that process. And it is the functioning of justice that is impaired by problems that are not small problems. We wanted to draw attention, Mrs Minister, to an aspect that we find essential. Regardless of the time we still have in committee to find the appropriate solutions from the point of view of the law to be passed in the Assembly of the Republic, it is absolutely essential that the conditions for the application of the law and the conditions for the normalization of the functioning of the courts be timely and adequately prepared with all judicial operators. Judges, prosecutors, lawyers, judicial officials, criminal police, all have to be involved in the process of preparation, timely and properly, so that everything that is decided in the law has a correspondence to the proper functioning of justice, according to the conditions in which it works in practice, and with criteria that seem absolutely clear to us. First, priority must be given to the realization of justice at present, in the courts, and to the creation of conditions for justice to be carried out at present in the courts. That must be the priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u162	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u163	I should like to conclude by saying that, secondly, technical, human and also legal means must be prepared so that, in a subsidiary way, when justice in the courts cannot be done in a face-to-face manner, the means must be used at a distance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u164	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u165	I would like to conclude, Madam President, by saying that we have renewed our proposal for social protection to lawyers here. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, this is not a secondary issue, nor an issue that can be resolved with any criterion. This is a criterion of equality in relation to other professionals — and, in particular, to other self-employed workers — who, in the same situation, had a social protection response which we believe should also be taken over here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u166	I have the floor, for one speech, Mrs. Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u167	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: During this period we have had the ability to ensure that the decisions we make in response to this pandemic mark the different times at which they occur. So it is not worth being here to make decisions as if we had to answer eternally to problems, because we will always have the ability to follow the different stages with our answers. What I wanted to say about the issue raised by the Left Block, about whether the Government's proposal translates into any restriction already defined, is that this is an undesirable effect of the wording and will therefore work together so that it can be corrected. As for the issues relating to ACT, we need to look at them differently. We have a process that is different from the custom, it is an extraordinary moment, and that requires extraordinary measures. And the extraordinary measures we have defined are those that the ACT may interrupt the effects of dismissals it deems illegal. It is when the inspector identifies an illegal dismissal that acts towards the termination of a contract of employment cannot occur. So it's nothing but this. And this is a measure that we consider appropriate to deal with the special moments we live in and which will be accompanied by the strengthening of means already mentioned in this fortnightly debate. The questions of justice I leave them to Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, who will intervene immediately. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u168	You have the floor for the closing of this debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr Mário Morgado.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u169	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: At various levels, courts are a fundamental pillar of life in society. Thus, it is necessary to resume judicial activity, without prejudice, of course, to the necessary protection of the health of professionals and users of the justice system. Yesterday, he followed to the courts a document with the care to be taken in the trials and trials, in the care and hygiene of the spaces and equipment, which was previously consensualized with the Directorate-General of Health, the Superior Councils and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic. First, the normalization of court activity requires, as a general rule, the end of the suspension of procedural deadlines. at the same time, the hearing rooms should gradually reopen depending on the specific circumstances of each case. Presently— provided that it is possible to observe the recommendations of the health authorities—or, then, by means of distance communication, consistent steps are required to normalise the work of the courts. The Government does not ignore the difficulties associated with this resumption and is doing everything to overcome them, although it shares responsibilities with the various bodies involved in the administration of the judicial system, without forgetting the decisive role of the management bodies of each region. We all want our justice to meet the demands of the moment and the government is always open to the weighting of all solutions to achieve this objective. But there is only one alternative: to act and show the will to act, overcoming obstacles and difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u170	I congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State and move on to the third item on the agenda, which deals with the legislative votes. I hope all parliamentary groups are represented.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u171	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u172	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u173	Madam President, I ask for a minute's rest so that we can organize ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u174	The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group had also asked for a few seconds to get the vote script. So let us pause and as soon as there are conditions we begin our voting period. [[Pause.]] I believe that we are already in a position to begin the vote on the Rules of Procedure. Verification of the deliberation quorum was carried out in a timely fashion, with 158 Members present at the time of the verification, and we therefore have quorum to proceed with the vote. We will begin by voting on a request submitted by the PS, asking for a discharge from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of the Bill No 28 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill then goes down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 352 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN and CH abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. I wonder if we can vote on the following two demands at the same time. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote together, a request made by the ENP, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 358 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Support for victims of violence at a time of pandemic, and the application submitted by BE, requesting the same Commission to be discharged, without a 30-day vote of Bill No. 361 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of children or young people in their well-being and healthy development ( thirty-sixth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims and fifty-seventh amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Both diplomas go down to 1. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 364 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Express consecration of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and ENP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Statute of the Advocates'Order, revising the remuneration status of the official auditor, which integrates the respective Tax Council. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Let's now vote, generally, Bill No. 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and the PCP.]] The diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 339 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthens social protection for business managers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the Abstaining of BE and the PCP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 346 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Strengthens the social support of business managers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against BE and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 354 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and workers on an individual basis due to the reduction of economic activity by the COVID-19 epidemic. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] This bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will vote for a request by BE, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation, Public Works and Housing, without a 30-day vote of Bill No 357 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures for micro and small enterprises. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma therefore falls to 6. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( amends to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PS and the PCP.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall vote on a request by BE for a discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 30-day vote of draft resolution No 409 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure that children whose parents have lost income are not excluded from day care, protecting affected families and professionals. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This draft resolution therefore falls to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 355 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a family support scheme in the frequency of child support equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 396 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — For the immediate creation and implementation of the National Plan of Solidarity and Digital Literacy. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, the vote in favour of the CH and the abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] I wonder if we can vote on the following two demands together. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, we shall vote together on the requests submitted by the ENP and the NAP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sport, without voting for 30 days, respectively, of the draft resolution No 421 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines exceptional measures relating to the payment of day care during the period of influence of COVID-19 and draft resolution No 423 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of families with dependents enrolled in kindergartens and kindergartens and ensures the sustainability of these educational equipment. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Both diplomas therefore fall to 8. We will generally vote for Bill No. 341 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Bans the distribution of dividends in banks, large companies and economic groups. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 356 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Exceptional and temporary scheme for the prohibition of the distribution of dividends to the bank, the financial sector, large companies and economic groups. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with votes in favour of BE, PCP, PEV and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 362 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of shareholder and bonus remuneration by credit institutions and by companies that have received public support due to the epidemiological situation caused by the disease COVID-19 ( second amendment of Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreirae the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the « emergency check » for micro and small enterprises whose activity has been suspended. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 338 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Other Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] We are now voting on a request by the PCP for discharge to the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee without a 15-day vote of Bill No 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education within the scope of the COVID 19 disease pandemic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma therefore falls to 8. Thus, the vote on the same bill is adversely affected. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 381 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The guarantee of access by all teachers in the country to information technology enabling them to learn at a distance. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u175	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u177	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u178	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Cláudia André would also like to use the word?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u179	Madam President, I apologize, but at the time of the vote of Bill No 338 / XIV / 1. a, of the NAP, I tried to ask the Bureau to inform us that we will also present a statement of vote, but I could not make myself heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u180	Is that a written statement of vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u181	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u182	All right. Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 404 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow national examinations to improve the final classification. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstained from BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 406 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — by replacing the normal functioning of national final examinations. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, doPSD, doBE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Resolution Project No. 405 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on best practices of waste disposal, such as masks and protective gloves. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 353 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition of rules and regulations for waste management operations. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We are going to vote, in general, on draft resolution No 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and wide dissemination of a communication campaign to raise awareness of populations for the proper packaging and storage of household waste. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on draft resolution No 418 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — National awareness campaign on the correct deposition of waste of individual protective materials against the COVID-19 pandemic and, where possible, the use of reusable materials. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] The draft resolution also goes down to 11. the Commission. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u183	To announce that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u184	Be registered. We will generally vote for Resolution No. 424 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — To carry out a national information campaign on waste disposal used in the prevention of the current health crisis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. Mr Ventura asked for the same word for the same purpose as the previous plea?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u185	Yes, for the same purpose, to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u186	The honourable Member's intention to make a statement of vote is then recorded. The general vote on draft resolution No 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote good practice in relation to individual protective equipment for the prevention of the contagio of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The draft resolution is down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Law No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Other exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease pandemic COVID-19. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Mr. André Ventura asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u187	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u188	Be registered. We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as amended by Laws Nos 4 -A / 2020 and 4 - B / 2020, both of 6 April, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Mr Ventura asked for the floor again. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u189	Madam President, it is also to announce that I will make a written statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u190	Be registered. We will move on to the supplementary script, concerning the votes, in the specialty, of Bill No 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ). Let us begin by voting on Article 1. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending the Article 8promise. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8 [...] are suspended while the disaster situation is in force, declared in accordance with the law, and up to 60 days after the end of this situation:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u191	We shall then vote on the proposal by BE to amend the Article 8promise. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8 [...] During the duration of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as determined by the public health authority and up to 60 days after the cessation of such measures to be defined by decree-law, in which the end of the exceptional situation is declared, are suspended:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u192	We shall now vote on the proposal by the NAP to amend the Article 8promise. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8 [...] As long as the declaration of the disaster situation under Law No 27/2006 of 3 July applies, and until three months have elapsed on their cessation, they shall be suspended:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u193	We shall vote for the prom of Article 8. the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 8 ( c ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PAN and the CH and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[(c) the production of the effects of the revocation and opposition to the renewal of the landlord's housing and non-residential leases;']]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u194	The vote on Article 8 ( c ) shall follow. the Law No 1 -A / 2020, of 19 March.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u195	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u196	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u197	Madam President, it seems to me that, with the exception of those contained in the amendments, there is no need to vote on any of the points in Article 8. the Law No. 1 -A / 2020, because they refer to the current drafting of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u198	You're right, sir. We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 8 ( e ). the Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: (e) (Deleted).’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u199	I believe that the following vote in Article 8 ( e ). Law No 1 -A / 2020 is void. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u200	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u201	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u202	Madam President, strictly neither Article 8 ( e ) nor the other paragraphs. they need to be voted on, as Mr Peixoto has already noted.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u203	Exactly. We shall then proceed to the vote on the body of Article 2. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote for Article 8. -A of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 8 ( 2 ). -A of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The Government shall adopt the necessary provisions to ensure the establishment of a support mechanism to ensure that non-individual owners are compensated for the monthly income, due and unpaid under the previous paragraph and Law No 4-C/2020 of 6 April.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u204	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, amending Article 8. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8b Adoption of market limitation measures The member of the Government responsible for the economy area, together with the member of the Government responsible for the sector area, where there is, where there is, the possibility of delegation, determining the necessary exemption measures with regard to the containment and limitation of the market, fixing maximum prices for liquefied oil gas, limiting the profit margins of medical devices, personal protection equipment and ethyl alcohol and skin disinfection solutions, monitoring of stocks and quantities produced, and exempting the payment of fees for economic operators acting in emergency situations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u205	We shall vote for Article 8. o-B of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD amending Article 8 ( 1 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — As long as the disaster situation is in force, declared in accordance with the law, and in order to strengthen the rights and guarantees of workers, where an inspector of the work verifys the existence of evidence of a dismissal in violation of Articles 381, 382, 383 or 384 of the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7/2009 of 12 February in its current wording, notifys the employer, within 10 days, to regularise the situation or to pronounce itself as appropriate, informing the worker.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u206	We shall vote on Article 8 (1). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to eliminate Article 8 ( 2 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall vote on Article 8 (2). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, adding a new paragraph 2 to Article 8. o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph have retroactive effects in the case of redundancies occurring during the period of the state of emergency and which violate the articles of the above Labour Code.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u207	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to eliminate Article 8 ( 3 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PS and the IL, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on Article 8 ( 3 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, adding Article 8 ( 4 ). o-C of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — In situations where dismissal has already been carried out, and if there is evidence of breach of the Labour Code, the worker/a must be readmitted and the contract of employment is reinvigorated.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u208	We shall vote for Article 8. o-D of Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft law. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 8. o-E to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8e Social support to lawyers and applicants 1 — While the exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the protection and social support measures applicable to self-employed workers in the event of illness, protection of parenthood and reduction of economic activity arising from the COVID-19 are also applicable to lawyers and applicants. 2 — The Government assumes responsibility for the payment of social support, in part financed by the State budget, in the same proportion as it has assumed for self-employed persons. 3 — The conditions and procedures for access to the measures referred to in the previous paragraph shall be laid down by door.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u209	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 8. o-E to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8e Social support to lawyers and applicants 1 — The protection and social support measures applicable to self-employed persons, in response to the situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, apply to lawyers and applicants and are financed by the State budget. 2 — The Government shall regulate the conditions and procedures for access to the measures referred to in the previous paragraph.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u210	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add an article 8. o-E to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of PSD, PAN, CH and IL and abstentions from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8e Social support to lawyers and applicants 1 — While the exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the new coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, the protection and social support measures applicable to self-employed workers in the event of illness, protection of parenthood and reduction of economic activity arising from the COVID-19 are also applicable to lawyers and applicants. 2 — The Government assumes responsibility for the payment of social support, in the part financed by the State budget, in the same proportion and under the same conditions as it has assumed or is assumed for self-employed workers not covered, either because they have no obligation to contribute, or because they do not meet the other conditions for access to extraordinary support. 3 — The specific conditions and procedures for access to the measures referred to in the above paragraph shall be regulated by the authorities responsible for the financial and social security areas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u211	We shall now vote for the body of Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote for Article 4. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote for Article 5. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u212	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u213	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u214	Madam President, before we move on to the overall final vote on this bill, I wanted to correct a sense of vote on a vote on this supplementary script. My very attentive services drew my attention to the fact that in the vote on Article 8 ( 2 ). o-C, our sense of vote was recorded as « abstention », when it was « against ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u215	Mr President, the result of the vote is not altered, but this correction is recorded. We will proceed to the global final vote of Bill No. 368 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — The third amendment is made to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, as amended by Laws Nos 4 -A / 2020 and 4 - B / 2020, both of 6 April, which approves exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote against the IL and the abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u216	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u217	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u218	Madam President, I would like to make two requests to the Bureau : one to request the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for complaints against inaccuracies concerning the bill that has just been approved and another to announce that Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa will make an oral statement on the vote that we have just concluded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u219	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us then vote on the oral request submitted by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for submitting claims against inaccuracies in respect of Bill No 368 / XIV / 1. a. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] For an oral vote on this same bill, you now have the floor of Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in these last votes, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group did not favourably vote on all the proposals which were intended to give support to lawyers and applicants, which we all recognize today as being in a state of deprotection, not because it does not agree with their kindness, because it agrees, but because they are injured in unconstitutionality, insofar as they violate the norm. However, I would like to leave here publicly a call for this constitutional obstacle to be quickly overcome and the Government can present or adopt measures to support lawyers and applicants, especially those who are in a serious situation of social disprotection, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-07.u221	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. I recall that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 13 May, and will start at 3 p.m. At the first item on the agenda, we will have political statements. The second point will be followed by the assessment of Petition No 365 / XIII / 2. a ( National Online Betting Association ) — Review of the law of the online game, in particular the taxation of sports bets to the quota. At the third point, we will appreciate Petition No 623 / XIII / 4. a (Armenio Francisco Gonçalves Maximino et al.) — They call for measures to be taken against the relocation of registration services on the Avenida Fontes Pereira de Melo, paragraphs 7 to 11, Lisbon. Finally, at the fourth point we will proceed to the examination of Petition No 597 / XIII / 4. a ( Amélia Luciana Brunnini de Sousa Uva Passo et al.) — They request that the cabin crew profession be qualified as a rapid wear, together with Resolution Projects Nos 268 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Classification of cabin crew as a rapid wear occupation and 251 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By regulating cabin crew activity with a view to reducing the wear resulting from the exercise of the activity and the guarantee of safety and health conditions at work and with, in general, Bill No 234 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of the working group for the legal regulation of the rapid wear professions and the creation of the respective table. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our meeting. I wish you all a good rest of the day. Thank you very much and until Wednesday. [[It was 18 hours and 26 minutes.]]
